TOWN OF PROSPERITY, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2018.1120, passed 12-18-2018
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:_http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
   
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Designation and citation
   
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Catchlines
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Effect of repeal or expiration
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Altering the code
   
10.10   Liability for violations
   
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
   
10.12   Municipal uniform ordinance summons
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01  DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of Prosperity, South
Carolina,” and may be so cited.  They may be cited also as the “Prosperity Town
Code” or “The Town Code of Prosperity.”
§ 10.02  CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. I, § 3-20)
§ 10.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR.  The word AND may be read as OR as AND where the sense requires
it.
   BOND.  When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day
be a Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL.  The Town Council of the Town of Prosperity, South
Carolina, including the Mayor and 4 Council members, for a total of 5.
   COUNTY.  The County of Newberry in the State of South Carolina.
   GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   NUMBER.  Words used in the singular number include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular number.
   OATH, SWEAR, SWORN.  The word OATH shall be construed to include an
affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted
for an OATH, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent
to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICERS, AGENTS, THINGS AND PLACES OF THE TOWN.  Unless a contrary
intention appears, the officer, agents, employees and other persons, things and
places situated in the town or employed by or appertaining to the town or
subject to the jurisdiction thereof.
   OWNER.  Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of the building or land.
   PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING.  Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY.  Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE.  Land, tenements and hereditament.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral
line of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line
intended for pedestrian use.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE.  The State of South Carolina.
   STREET.  Avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
bridges and approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares in the town,
and shall mean the entire width thereof between opposed abutting property
lines.  It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or foot path, unless the
contrary in expressed or unless the construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Town Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TOWN.  The Town of Prosperity in the County of Newberry and the State of
South Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   WRITING.  Printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR.  A calendar year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-1)
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future also.
§ 10.05  CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code, printed in capital
letters, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate or emphasize the contents
of the sections, not as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are ended or reenacted.
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council, that if any
section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code since the same
would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-25)
§ 10.07  EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-26)
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.  In
the case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof by
subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact, language: 
“that §              (number to be inserted) of the Town Code of The Town of
Prosperity is hereby amended as follows:          .”
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used:  “that the Prosperity Town Code,
is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered §                (number
to be inserted), which section shall read as follows:              .”  The new
section shall then be set out in full as enacted, and the sections of this code
may be renumbered to accomplish the intention.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, chapters or provisions to be repealed shall
be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-30)
§ 10.09  ALTERING THE CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the laws of this municipality to be misrepresented thereby.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-40) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 10.10  LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any person.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-60)
§ 10.11  PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than 1 recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-10)
§ 10.12  MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the code, or any code
adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the town may be issued
a uniform ordinance summons.  Issuance of the uniform ordinance summons shall
vest jurisdiction in the municipal court to hear and dispose of the charge for
which the uniform ordinance summons was issued and served.  The uniform
ordinance summons may be issued by any town law enforcement officer or any
other town employees designated by the Council as code enforcement officers. 
The bond amount for violations shall be prescribed by the Chief Municipal Court
Judge.  Town law enforcement or code enforcement officers are prohibited from
accepting bonds.  Bonds are to be posted in the manner prescribed in the
uniform ordinance summons.  The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to
perform a custodial arrest.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or
order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under authority duly vested
in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required, where no
specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof, the violation of any
provisions of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation or order shall
be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or by imprisonment for a period not
exceeding 30 days, or both.  No penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by
state law for similar offenses.  Each day any violation of this code or any
ordinance, rule or regulation shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-50)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on fine and term of imprisonment, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
CHAPTER 11:  TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Adoption of form of government
   
11.02   Corporate boundaries
   
11.03   Town seal
§ 11.01  ADOPTION OF FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of § 6 of Act 283 (Home Rule), the
Town Council adopted the Council form of government on January 15, 1976.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-2)
   (B)   The governing body of Town Council shall consist of a Mayor and 4
Council members elected at-large and serving 4 years staggered terms.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-3)
§ 11.02  CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   (1)   The boundaries and corporate limits of the town are adopted as
they are set out and designated on a plat made by Jacob M. Bedenbaugh, surveyor
dated October 11, 1963 and as subsequently amended, the last amendment being
dated February 24, 1968.
      (2)   A copy  of the map showing the current boundaries and corporate
limits is included herein.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-6)
   (B)   Any subsequent amendments affecting the town’s boundaries and
corporate limits shall be made a permanent part of this code with copies
available at the Town Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-7)
§ 11.03  TOWN SEAL.
   The seal of the Town of Prosperity in described as  follows:  within the
first of outer circle is engraved Town Council, Town of Prosperity, South
Carolina.  In the inner or center circle is engraves the design justice.  The
seal shall be and is hereby established to be the Common Seal of the Town of
Prosperity.
(1982 Code, Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-8)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   TOWN COUNCIL; TOWN ADMINISTRATION
   
31.   TOWN OFFICERS
   
32.   MUNICIPAL COURT
   
33.   ELECTIONS
   
34.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
   
35.   PUBLIC SAFETY
   
36.   PURCHASING
   
37.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN COUNCIL; TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Section
Organization
   
30.01   Mayor and Council
   
30.02   Method and time of elections
   
30.03   Terms of office
   
30.04   Taking of office
   
30.05   Oath of office
Council Meetings and Procedures
   
30.15   Meetings
   
30.16   Quorum and rules of order
   
30.17   Procedures and order of business
   
30.18   Ordinances and resolutions
   
30.19   Donations
Committees
   
30.30   Appointment of standing committees
   
30.31   Appointment of special committees
   
30.32   Committee reports
   30.33   Compensation of Town Council
ORGANIZATION
§ 30.01  MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
    The governing body of the town should consist of the Town Council, which is
made up of the Mayor and 4 Town Council members.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 30.02  METHOD AND TIME OF ELECTIONS.
    The Mayor and the 4 Town Council members shall be elected at large.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-2)
§ 30.03  TERMS OF OFFICE.
    The terms of office for the Mayor and Council members shall be 4-year
terms, with the Council members’ terms being staggered so that no more than 50%
of the Council members shall be replaced during an election year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-3)
§ 30.04  TAKING OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Newly elected officers (Mayor and Council members) shall not be
qualified pursuant to South Carolina law, until at least 48 hours after the
closing of the election polls.
   (B)   Newly elected officers shall take office January 1 following the
general election.  In case the results of the election are contested, the
incumbent who fills that contested office shall hold over until the contest is
finally determined.
   (C)   In the event a special election is held to fill a vacancy in either
the Mayor’s office or a Council member’s position, the newly elected officer to
fill the vacancy shall take office in the first regular meeting of the Town
Council following his or her election.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-4)
§ 30.05  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Upon entering office, the Mayor and/or Council member shall take the
following oath:
      “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am duly qualified, according to
the Constitution of this State, to exercise the duties of the office to which I
have been elected and that I will, to the best of my ability, discharge the
duties thereof, and preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of this
State and of the United States. So help me God.
      “As Councilman (or Mayor) of the Town of Prosperity, I will equally and
impartially, to the best of my skill and ability, exercise the trust reposed in
me and will use my best endeavors to preserve the peace and carry into effect,
according to the law, the purpose of my election. So help me  God.”
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. I, § 2)
COUNCIL MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES
§ 30.15  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of Council shall be held on the third Tuesday in each
month unless changed by a majority vote of members present at any regular or
special meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings of Council may be held on the call of the Mayor or of
a majority of the Council members.  Notice of a special meeting shall be given
immediately to all available members and the news media by the Town Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (C)   All regular and special meetings of Council shall be open to the
public.
   (D)   (1)   The Town Council may go into conference or executive sessions as
permitted by the South Carolina Freedom of Information Act and the Town Code at
such times and places as may be deemed necessary and in the public interest by
the Mayor of any member of Council.
      (2)   No formal vote shall be taken upon any matter under discussion at
any such session, but an informal polling of Council may be made if desired by
any member of Council.
      (3)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer may, if time permits, give notice to the
news media that such a session will be held pursuant to law without stating the
specific matters to be discussed. When advance notice is not given, the Clerk/
Treasurer may give notice of the meeting after it has been held.
      (4)   No vote of Council is necessary to call a conference or executive
session.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. II, § 1)
§ 30.16  QUORUM AND RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   A majority of the Council members serving shall constitute a quorum
for the conduct of any meeting.  The Mayor or the Mayor Pro Tem shall preside,
except that in the absence of both, the members present shall elect a presiding
member.
   (B)   Except as otherwise required by state law or ordinance, all
proceedings of Council shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order and the
Town Attorney shall act as parliamentarian.
   (C)   (1)   All actions of Council shall be by a majority vote of members
present at the meeting.
      (2)   Every member of Council present shall vote on every question except
when required to refrain from voting by state law.
      (3)   The vote on every question shall be by roll call and shall be
recorded in the Council minutes by the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (4)   No member of Council may leave the Council chambers while in public
session without permission of the presiding officer.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall keep the minutes of all public meetings of
Council and they shall be a matter of permanent public record.  At each Council
meeting the minutes of the previous meeting shall be presented for approval. 
Minutes shall not be considered the official record of the meeting until
approved by Council.  Any member of the Council desiring to express a position
on a matter voted upon by Council in the minutes may do so by presenting the
position in writing to Council not later than the next regular meeting.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. II, § 2)
§ 30.17  PROCEDURES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   During any public meeting of Council, the following order of business
shall be followed:
      (1)   Call to order by presiding officer;
      (2)   Reading and approval of minutes;
      (3)   Reading communication received;
      (4)   Reports from officers;
      (5)   Reports from standing committees;
      (6)   Reports from special committees;
      (7)   Introduction of ordinances and resolutions;
      (8)   Miscellaneous business not included in the foregoing;
      (9)   Executive session if necessary;
      (10)   Regular session/ratification of decisions made in executive
session; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Any citizen of the town shall be entitled to an appearance before
Council at any regular meeting concerning any municipal matter with the
exception of matters exempt under the Freedom of Information Act. Citizens
desiring to appear before Council must notify the Town Clerk/Treasurer prior to
the beginning of the meeting.
   (C)   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be
placed on a written agenda prepared by the chief administrative officer and
publicly posted by the Municipal Clerk/Treasurer by noon of the day preceding
the meeting. The agenda may be amended upon request of a member unless 2
members object.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. II, § 3)
§ 30.18  ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Council shall act by ordinances in all matters required by law
to be done by ordinance including:
         (a)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or ordinances, create,
alter or abolish any municipal department, office or agency;
         (b)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violations;
         (c)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
         (d)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets or public property, and close abandoned streets;
         (e)   Authorize the borrowing of money or bond issuance;
         (f)   Levy taxes, assess property for public improvements or 
establish  charges for services;
         (g)   Annexation of property into town limits;
         (h)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any
lands or property of the town; and
         (i)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in division (A)(1)
above.
      (2)   In all other matters, Council may act either by ordinance or
resolution written or oral, recorded in the minutes.
   (B)   Any ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted by Council or required
to be adopted by Council shall be updated on an annual basis in accordance
herewith.
   (C)   Ordinances dealing with certain matters require public notification,
some of which include the granting of a franchise, license or right for the use
of any street or public property and the permanent closing of a public street. 
The notices shall be published in 3 issues of a newspaper with local
circulation stating the nature of the ordinance.  Ordinances will not be
presented to Council until at least 1 week after the final notice  has been
published.
   (D)   (1)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in
the form required for final adoption pursuant to instructions outlined herein.
      (2)   Written resolutions shall be in such similar form as deemed
appropriate by the Town Attorney.
      (3)   All ordinances and resolutions shall be referred to the Town
Attorney for approval as to form.
   (E)   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of Council.  After an
ordinance in proper form and required notices have been published, the
ordinance shall be submitted to the Town Clerk/Treasurer for public
inspection.  It shall be considered introduced when it appears on an agenda for
a public meeting of Council.  At the meeting, the title of the ordinance must
be read and a favorable vote of Council to accept it as first reading must
follow in order to progress with the final adoption process.
   (F)   (1)   Any ordinance shall be complete in the form in which it is
finally passed, and in such form remain on file with the Town Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   No ordinance shall be adopted until it shall have been read 2 times
and on 2 separate days with at least 6 days between each reading.
      (3)   Emergency ordinances may be adopted on 1 reading without notice or
hearing by affirmative vote of 2/3 of members present.  An emergency ordinance
may not levy taxes, relate to a franchise or a service rate and shall expire
automatically on the sixty-first day following its enactment.
      (4)   The introduction and reading of an ordinance shall be by title only
unless full reading is requested by a member of Council.
      (5)   After the introduction of an ordinance, members of Council or
citizens of the town interested therein may request a public hearing which may
be held at any time designated by Council prior to adoption.
      (6)   Upon final adoption by a vote of Council, an ordinance shall be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Town Clerk/Treasurer, who shall file
same in the minutes and provide copies in the appropriate chapter, subchapter
and section to the town code.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   A voice motion of a member of Council shall be considered
to be an introduction of an oral resolution which shall require no written
record other than a notation by the Town Clerk/Treasurer in the Council
minutes.
         (b)   A resolution proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same
manner as an ordinance.
      (2)   Written or oral resolutions may be adopted on 1 reading by Town
Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. II, § 4)
§ 30.19  DONATIONS.
   (A)   Eligible resources.
      (1)   Municipally owned facility (rental fee waived/reduced).
      (2)   Use of municipally owned equipment (rental fee waived/ reduced).
      (3)   Monetary donation.
   (B)   Guidelines.
      (1)   All requests for donations should be directed in writing to the
Mayor and Council of the town well in advance of the event so that the request
can be considered at a regularly scheduled Town Council Meeting.
      (2)   All requests will be assessed based on availability of the
requested resource, potential financial impact to the municipality,
contribution the well-being of members of the community, recognition of a
worthwhile program/cause, and overall community impact.
      (3)   Preference will be given to organizations and/or charities whose
primary focus is within the municipality.
      (4)   Donations made by the municipality are not to be regarded as a
commitment by the municipality to continue such donations in the future.
      (5)   No donation will be considered unless specifically authorized by
mayor and council in the form of a resolution of support.
      (6)   In making donations, the municipality may impose such conditions
and/or restricts as it deems fit. The municipality decisions regarding
donations are final.
   (C)   Eligibility.
      (1)   Applicants must demonstrate the need for the specific request. Each
request must identify a specific defined benefit and outcome. Each request must
contain the date, hours and requested municipal resource.
      (2)   Applicants, must be non-profit community groups, employees of the
town and organizations, (individuals are not eligible.) Applicants must provide
the town with their registration name and number on each request.
      (3)   The municipality reserves the right to limit the number of
donations made to a particular organization in any given year.
      (4)   The Town Council's decisions regarding eligibility are final.
(Ord. 30.19, passed 11-26-2010)
COMMITTEES
§ 30.30  APPOINTMENT OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the following standing committees from the
Town Council membership. Membership terms for committee members shall be for 1
year and in the case of a vacancy for any cause, the Mayor shall also appoint
the chairpersons of the committees.
   (B)   The standing committees are as follows:
      (1)   Electrical, Public Works, Sanitation;
      (2)   Public Safety and Streets;
      (3)   Economic Development, Buildings and Properties;
      (4)   Parks, Recreation and Events;
      (5)   Police Department;
      (6)   Utility Department;
      (7)   Town Attorney; and
      (8)   Town Administrator.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. III, § 1)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2018)
§ 30.31  APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   (A)   All other special or “ad hoc” committees shall be appointed by the
Mayor unless a ballot is called for by the majority of Council members present.
   (B)   Special committees shall automatically dissolve once the purposes for
which they were established have been accomplished.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. III, § 2)
§ 30.32  COMMITTEE REPORTS.
Editor’s Note:
   Currently, committees consist of 1 Council member only. Verbal reports are
given at the meeting and are a part of the minutes.
§ 30.33  COMPENSATION OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council may determine the annual salary of its members by the
adoption of the annual budget ordinance or by separate ordinance; provided that
the establishment or increase of such salaries shall not become effective until
the commencement date of the terms of 2 or more members elected at the next
general election following the adoption of the ordinance, at which time it will
become effective for all members whether or not they were elected in such
election. The Mayor and Councilmembers may also receive payment for actual
expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties within
limitations prescribed by ordinance.
(Ord. 30.33, passed 11-19-2013)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICERS
Section
   
31.01   Mayor; powers and duties
   
31.02   Town Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.03   Town Attorney
   
31.04   Town Administrator
   31.05   Police Coordinator/Administrator
§ 31.01  MAYOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to be vigilant and active in causing
the ordinances and laws of the government of the town to be duly executed and
enforced.
   (C)   It shall be his or her duty to inspect the conduct of all subordinate
officers in the government or management of their respective offices; and so
far as is within his or her power, to cause all negligence, carelessness and
positive violation of duty to be duly prosecuted and punished.
   (D)   The Mayor shall call special meetings of Council, whenever, in his or
her opinion, the public interest of the town requires it, or when requested in
writing by not less than 2 Council members.
   (E)   The Mayor, from time to time, shall communicate to the Town Council
all such information and recommend all such measures, as may tend to improve
the finances, police, health, security, cleanliness, comfort and general will
being of the town.
   (F)   The Mayor shall require the submission of monthly reports by the
various department heads of the town government.
   (G)   The Mayor, shall, as soon after a close of the fiscal year as is
practicable, present annual reports to the Town Council, reviewing same and
making such recommendations as may seem to him or her advantageous to the
public service.
   (H)   The Mayor shall have the power to give the direction to any of the
executive officers of the town as may be necessary to carry the ordinances,
laws and regulations into effect.
   (I)   The Mayor fully elected and qualified shall, during his or her term of
office, have the same power as a magistrate to compel the attendance of
witnesses and require them to give evidence upon the trial before him or her or
any person for the violation of the town code.
   (J)   The Town Council shall elect 1 of its members to act as Mayor Pro
Tem.  The term of office shall be 2 years and the Mayor Pro Tem shall act as
Mayor during the absence or disability of the Mayor, and if a vacancy occurs,
shall become Mayor until a successor is duly qualified and elected.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. IV, § 1)
§ 31.02  TOWN CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   A Town Clerk/Treasurer shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   Before entering on the discharge of his or her duties and within 10
days from this appointment, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall enter into a bond,
payable to the town in the sum with sufficient security to be approved by the
Town Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her duties as
Clerk/ and Treasurer; which bond shall be recorded in the office of Clerk of
Court of Newberry County.  A failure to give the bond within such time
thereafter as Council by resolution may fix, shall operate to cause a vacancy
in said office, which shall be filled by a new appointment. The person
appointed to the Office of Clerk/Treasurer shall at once, upon giving bond
hereinbefore provided for, enter on the discharge of his or her duties and be
subject to such ordinance, order or penalties as may be fixed or prescribed by
the Town Council, or a majority of the same.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer for his or her services shall receive an annual
salary in accordance with the town's current classification and compensation
plan.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to deposit in such bank as
Council may direct, all and every sum or sums of money received by him or her
in his or her official capacity early after the same has been received in his
or her name as Clerk/Treasurer, distinct from any other deposits made by him or
her for his or her own use or otherwise; provided, nothing herein contained
shall prevent him or her from keeping in his or her office for the smaller
expenses of the town a sufficient balance for that purpose.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to make out carefully and
distinctly, a monthly exhibit showing the amount received during the month and
from what source and of amounts paid out and for what purpose.
   (F)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall not pay or liquidate any claims against the
town until the claim has been examined and audited by the Council or an
authorized committee thereof, excepting claims due for salaries, as specified,
to each officer.  He or she is hereby authorized to sign checks for authorized
disbursement of town funds.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to make and publish in
accordance with the requirements of the state law a statement of the financial
condition of the town.
   (H)   (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall be ex-officio clerk of the Town
Council.
      (2)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall give notices of meetings, post the
agenda, attend regular and special meetings, record votes of Council and keep
minutes of the meetings.
   (I)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall file and preserve all papers which may come
into his or her hands as Town Clerk/Treasurer.
   (J)   He or she shall attest and publish, as Town Clerk/Treasurer, all
ordinances or other papers or proceedings required by the Town Council to be
published.
   (K)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall transmit to the Council, monthly, the
reports of the town officers.
   (L)   In addition to the books of account and records provided in this
section, the Town Clerk/Treasurer shall keep such other books and records as
may be necessary to the discharge of the functions of his or her office.
   (M)   The books and papers of the Clerk/Treasurer shall at all times, be
subject to examination by the Mayor, and members of the Town Council or any
committee of the Town Council.
   (N)   The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the Mayor and all members of the
Town Council of a coming election at least 65 days prior to the town election.
   (O)   The seal of the town shall be in the custody of the Town Clerk/
Treasurer and the same shall be kept by him or her at all times in his or her
office.
   (P)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be
assigned.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. IV, § 2)
Editor’s Note:
   The town provides bonds for the Clerk/Treasurer, Administrator, Billing
Clerk, Police and Council.
§ 31.03  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Town Attorney, who shall
be appointed by the Town Council for a 2-year term.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Attorney shall have such powers and perform such duties
as may be granted to him or her, imposed upon him or her or required of him or
her by the Town Council.
      (2)   These shall include advice on all legal matters before the Council.
   (C)   The Town Attorney shall be compensated  annually in an amount as
determined by the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Attorney shall attend all regular and special meetings of
Council unless specifically excused by the Mayor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. IV, § 3)
§ 31.04  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There shall be an officer of the town known as the Town Administrator,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor as authorized by the Council.  No Council
member shall receive the appointment during the term for which the member shall
have been elected, nor within 2 years after the expiration of the member’s
term.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall be chosen by the Mayor solely on the
basis of administrative qualifications and experience in respect to the duties
of the office as set forth in this section.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint the Town Administrator for an indefinite
term.  If the Mayor determines to remove the Town Administrator, the officer
shall be given a written statement of the reasons alleged.  For the proposed
removal and the date that the removal becomes effective.  In all cases, the
Town Administrator shall receive 90 days notice of removal or severance pay for
90 days where the removal is made effective immediately by the decision of the
Mayor.
   (D)   To perform the Town Administrator’s duties during temporary absence or
disability, the Town Administrator may appoint, by and with the consent of the
Mayor, by letter filed with the Town Clerk/Treasurer, a qualified
administrative officer of the town to act in the Town Administrator’s absence. 
In the event of failure of the Town Administrator to make designation, the
Mayor may appoint an officer of the town to perform the duties of the Town
Administrator until the Town Administrator shall return or disability shall
cease.
   (E)   The Town Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor for the
proper administration of all affairs placed in the officer’s charge by the
Mayor and to that end subject to the provisions of this section, the Town
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the Mayor, the appointment, suspension and removal of
any employee of the town, except as otherwise provided for by the state law or
town ordinance and be responsible for the administration of the town personnel
rules and regulations and the position classification and pay plan of the town;
      (2)   Before the beginning of the budget year, the head of each office,
department and agency shall submit to the Town Administrator an estimate of
revenues and expenditures where appropriate and a working program for the
upcoming fiscal year;
      (3)   With the assistance of the town’s Clerk/Treasurer, keep the Mayor
and Council advised of the financial condition of the town and be responsible
for the day-to-day administrative management of the municipal budget and to
make such other reports as the Mayor or Council may require concerning the
operation of the municipal departments, offices and agencies;
      (4)   Oversee daily operations of town’s offices, departments, agencies
and any capital improvement projects, which may be implemented and keep the
Mayor and Council advised of the town’s daily operations and any town capital
improvement projects, which may be underway and provide the Mayor and Council
with status and implementation reports as required by Mayor;
      (5)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused therefrom and
take part in the discussion of all matters pertinent to the Town
Administrator’s office coming before Council;
      (6)   Act as the town’s grant’s administrator, overseeing the writing and
management of all grants sought and awarded; and
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor not
inconsistent with the state law or ordinances of the town.
   (F)   Except for the purposes of inquiry and investigation, the Council
members, except for the Mayor, shall deal with the administrative service
through the Town Administrator.  The members of Council shall not give orders
to any officer or employee within the administrative service.
(Ord. passed 10-17-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to employ town administrator under mayor/council form of
government, see S.C. Code § 5-9-40
§ 31.05  POLICE COORDINATOR/ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There shall be an officer of the town known as the Police Coordinator/
Administrator, who shall be appointed by the Mayor as authorized by the
Council. No Council member shall receive the appointment during the term for
which the member shall have been elected, nor within 2 years after the
expiration of the member's term.
   (B)   The Police Coordinator/Administrator shall be chosen by the Mayor
solely on the basis of administrative qualifications and experience in respect
to the duties of the office as set forth in this section.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint the Police Coordinator/Administrator for an
indefinite term. If the Mayor determines to remove the Police Coordinator/
Administrator, they shall be given a written statement of the reasons alleged.
   (D)   To perform the Police Coordinator/Administrator duties during
temporary absence or disability, the Police Coordinator/Administrator may
appoint, by and with the consent of the Mayor, by letter filed with the Town
Administrator, a qualified administrative officer of the town to act in the
Police Coordinator/Administrator absence.
   (E)   The Police Coordinator/Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor
for the proper administration of all affairs placed the officers charge by the
Mayor and to that end subject to the provisions of this section, the Police
Coordinator/Administrator shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the Mayor, the appointment, suspension and removal of
any employee of the town, except as otherwise provided for by the state law or
town ordinance and be responsible for the administration of the town personnel
rules and regulations and the position classification and pay plan of the town
as they relate to the Prosperity Police Department;
      (2)   Before the beginning of the budget year, the Police Coordinator/
Administrator shall submit to the Town Administrator an estimate of revenues
and expenditures where appropriate and a working program for the upcoming
fiscal year;
      (3)   Be responsible for the day-to-day administrative management of the
municipal budget.
      (4)   Oversee daily operations of Prosperity Police Department and keep
the Mayor and Council advised of the town's daily operations through activity
reports and citation information.
      (5)   Attend all meetings of the Town Council unless excused therefrom
and take part in the discussion of all matters pertinent to the Police
Coordinator/Administrator office coming before Council;
      (6)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor not
inconsistent with the sate law or ordinances of the town.
(Ord. 31.05, passed 2-23-2010)
CHAPTER 32:  MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Municipal Judge
   
32.002   Court records
   
32.003   Compensation
Jurisdiction of Court
   
32.015   Corporate limits; Judge
   
32.016   Jurisdiction of Judge
Procedure
   
32.030   Election of charge against accused
   
32.031   Attendance of witnesses
   
32.032   Testimony in writing
   
32.033   Proceedings in criminal cases by information
   
32.034   Amendment of information
Penalty Administration
   
32.045   Execution of Sheriff to collect fines
   
32.046   Fines to go to town
   
32.047   Prisoners subject to road work
   
32.048   Commitment to jail
Appeals
   
32.060   Appeal to Council
   
32.061   Procedure on appeal
   
32.062   Powers of Council on appeal
   
32.063   Appeal to Court of General Sessions
   
32.064   Review of conviction by writ
Juries
   
32.075   Jurors limited to 1 month
   
32.076   Failure to obey jury summons
   
32.077   Out of town jurors
   
32.078   Council acting as Jury Commissioner
   
32.079   Drawing a jury list
   
32.080   Selection of jury from list
   
32.081   Repeated jury balloting
   
32.082   Jury fees in criminal cases
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001  MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   There is hereby established a Municipal Court for the town pursuant to S.C.
Code § 14-25.  The Court shall be presided over by the Municipal Judge who
shall be appointed by the Town Council and who shall serve at the pleasure of
Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 32.002  COURT RECORDS.
   The Town Council may employ a recorder.  The Recorder shall be elected by a
majority vote of the Council and his or her term of office shall be coterminous
with that of the Mayor of the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-2)
§ 32.003  COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Judge shall be compensated as the Town Council shall direct.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-3)
JURISDICTION OF COURT
§ 32.015  CORPORATE LIMITS; JUDGE.
   (A)   The Municipal Court may try and determine criminal cases involving
violations occurring within the town limits when the penalty prescribed for the
violation does not exceed 30 days imprisonment nor $200 fine and may have trial
jurisdiction over the criminal cases the same as Judges.
   (B)   (1)   Where the punishment prescribed for a misdemeanor is “at the
discretion of the court” under the provisions of a state statute, a Judge’s
court lacks the jurisdiction to hear or pass judgement on the statutory offense
although the prescribed penalty falls within the standard jurisdiction limits
prescribed for a Judge’s court by this section.
      (2)   The same applies to any  offence for which  the prescribed penalty
is a fine not exceeding $200 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days
or both.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. I, § 2-1)
§ 32.016  JURISDICTION OF JUDGE.
   The Judge of the town shall perform the powers provided by law and shall be
subject to the supervision of the Court Administrator.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. I, § 2-2)
PROCEDURE
§ 32.030  ELECTION OF CHARGE AGAINST ACCUSED.
   Whenever a person be accused of committing an act which is susceptible of
being designed as several different offenses, the Judge of the Municipal Court
upon the trial of the person shall be required to elect which charge to prefer
and a conviction or an acquittal upon the elected charge shall be a complete
bar to further prosecution for the alleged offence.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-1)
§ 32.031  ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES.
   The Municipal Judge or Mayor has the same power which a Judge now has to
compel the attendance of witnesses and require them to give evidence upon the
trial before them of any person for violation of the laws or the ordinances of
the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-2)
§ 32.032  TESTIMONY IN WRITING.
   (A)   In the trial of any case before the Judge, the testimony of all
witnesses shall be taken down in writing and signed by the witnesses except
when the defendant shall waive the taking and signing of the testimony.
   (B)   When a stenographer shall take down the testimony, it need not be read
over and signed by the witnesses.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-3)
§ 32.033  PROCEEDINGS IN CRIMINAL CASES BY INFORMATION.
   All proceedings before an official exercising the power of a Judge in
criminal cases shall be commenced on information under oath, plainly and
substantially setting forth the offense charged, upon which and only which,
shall a warrant of arrest issue.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-4)
§ 32.034  AMENDMENT OF INFORMATION.
   The information may be amended at any time before trial.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-5)
PENALTY ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.045  EXECUTION OF SHERIFF TO COLLECT FINES.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor or Municipal Judge shall find the tried before him
or her guilty of violating an ordinance of the town, he or she may impose, in
his or her discretion, a fine or imprisonment in the alternative, not to exceed
the limits prescribed for the violation by the ordinances of the town and not
to exceed a fine in the sum of $200 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days;
provided that, the ordinances, rules, bylaws or regulations be not contrary to
the laws of the state.
   (B)   The Mayor or Municipal Judge may issue execution to the Sheriff of the
county for the collection of all fines imposed by them.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-1)
§ 32.046  FINES TO GO TO TOWN.
   All revenues arising from the fines shall be appropriated to the use of the
corporation.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-2)
§ 32.047  PRISONERS SUBJECT TO ROAD WORK.
   Every person sentenced to imprisonment, either directly or in consequence of
a failure to pay a fine imposed, shall be subject to work upon public roads or
streets of the town, or of the county in which the town is situated, during the
term if the imprisonment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-3)
§ 32.048  COMMITMENT TO JAIL.
   If the offender be committed to jail it shall be done at the expense of the
town.  Municipal authorities may sentence municipal convicts to work upon the
streets and other public works of the municipality in which they have been
convicted and the convicts when so sentenced shall work under the exclusive
direction and control of the municipal authority imposing sentence.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-4)
APPEALS
§ 32.060  APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   From all decisions of the Mayor or Municipal Judge, any defendant, feeling
himself or herself aggrieved, may appeal to the Circuit Court, provided he or
she give notice of the appeal within 24 hours after sentence has been passed
and enter into bond to appear and defend before the Council at a time to be
specified in the undertaking and to abide the sentence of the Town Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-1)
§ 32.061  PROCEDURE ON APPEAL.
   (A)   At the trial of the appeal, the Mayor or Municipal Judge shall preside
and the Council members shall sit as a court.
   (B)   A concurrence of a majority of the aldermen present shall be necessary
for the reversal of the judgment of the Mayor, Municipal Judge or Mayor Pro
Tempore, but if the Council members present shall divide equally in opinion,
the judgement of the Mayor or Municipal Judge shall be affirmed.
   (C)   The Council members may reserve, modify or confirm any or all rulings
or conclusions of the Mayor or Municipal Judge made or reached in the first
trial of the case.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-2)
§ 32.062  POWERS OF COUNCIL ON APPEAL.
   The Town Council, upon any such appeal shall have the same powers conferred
upon Mayor or Municipal Judges.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-3)
§ 32.063  APPEAL TO COURT OF GENERAL SESSIONS.
   (A)   From all decisions of the Mayor or Municipal Judge or Town Council,
any party in interest, feeling himself or herself aggrieved, may appeal to the
court of general sessions for the county in which the trial in had; provided,
however, that he or she must give notice of the appeal in writing within 24
hours after the sentence has been passed and enter into bond to appear and
defend before the Court at its next ensuing session thereafter.
   (B)   The appeal may be taken either from the sentence of the Mayor,
Municipal Judge or from the sentence of the Town Council, but the appeal shall
not operate to stay the execution of the sentence unless the appellant give
bond, to be proved by the Mayor or Municipal Judge, conditioned to abide the
judgement of the Court of General Sessions.
   (C)   The appeal in the Court of General Sessions shall be heard upon the
report of the presiding officer of the trial below and upon the testimony
reported by him or her.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-4)
§ 32.064  REVIEW OF CONVICTION BY WRIT.
   (A)   Whenever a person shall have been convicted in the Municipal Court,
the person may, upon petition, obtain from any Circuit Judge or Justice of the
Supreme Court at chambers or in open court a writ of certiorari requiring the
Municipal Court to certify the entire record of the case, together with a copy
of the municipal ordinance or a reference to the statute involved, as the case
may be, and the rulings, finding and sentence, returnable at such time as the
Circuit Judge or Justice of the Supreme Court may direct.
   (B)   Upon the hearing of the writ, the Circuit Judge or Justice of the
Supreme Court shall have the same jurisdiction of the entire matter as Circuit
Judges now have in cases appealed from municipal courts.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-5)
JURIES
§ 32.075  JURORS LIMITED TO 1 MONTH.
   (A)   (1)   When the accused shall demand a jury, it shall be drawn from the
qualified electors of the town in the same manner as is provided for drawing of
juries in the Courts of Judges.
      (2)   The Chief of Police or the Town Administrator shall act as
constable to prepare the jury list.
      (3)   The complainant or some officer to be designated by the Mayor may
make the challenges allowed on the part of the prosecution.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-1)
   (B)   No person shall be required to serve on a jury in the Municipal Court
oftener than once in each month of the year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-2)
§ 32.076  FAILURE TO OBEY JURY SUMMONS.
   (A)   If any juror, duly summoned, shall neglect or refuse to appear in
obedience to any venire issued by the Municipal Court and shall not within 48
hours render to the Judge holding court and issuing the venire, a sufficient
reason for his or her delinquency, he or she shall forfeit and pay a
discretionary fine of $10 to the treasury of the town, to be assessed by the
Judge holding the court and collected on his or her warrant without other
process.
   (B)   A failure to pay forthwith the fine so assessed shall constitute a
contempt of court and be punished accordingly.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-3)
§ 32.077  OUT OF TOWN JURORS.
   (A)   Whenever it shall appear that a sufficient number of competent jurors
cannot be had for the trial of cases arising under the ordinances within the
corporate limits of the town, a jury or any deficiency of jurors may be drawn,
as now provided by law, from the territory adjacent to the town.
   (B)   No person shall be compelled to serve as the juror who resides more
than 5 miles from the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-4)
§ 32.078  COUNCIL ACTING AS JURY COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Mayor and Council members in the town are the Jury Commissioners
of the Municipal Court and they shall, on or before May 1 each year, prepare a
box to be known as the “Jury Box,” which shall contain 2 apartments designated
as A and B, respectively, and shall prepare and place prior to such date in
each year in apartment A of the box the names of not less than 75% of the
qualified electors of the town of good moral character and eligible for jury
duty.
   (B)   After so placing such names in such apartment A, the Mayor or
presiding officer of the court shall lock the box and keep it in a place of
safety.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-5)
§ 32.079  DRAWING A JURY LIST.
   In all criminal cases in which a jury may be demanded either by the town or
the defendant, such jury shall be selected in the following manner.  The
presiding officer of the court shall have drawn out of apartment A of the jury
box, referred to in §
32.078, 18 ballots, each containing the name of an eligible juror and list the
18 names in duplicate, delivering 1 copy of the list to the town’s prosecutor
and 1 copy to the defendant.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-6)
§ 32.080  SELECTION OF JURY FROM LIST.
   The person appointed by the presiding officer shall place the 18 ballots so
drawn in some box or hat and shall draw out 1 and the person so drawn shall be
one of the jury, unless challenged by either party, and the person appointed by
the presiding officer shall then proceed until he or she shall have drawn 6 who
shall not have been challenged, neither party being allowed more than 6
challenges.  But if the first 12 drawn shall be challenged and the parties do
not agree to a choice, the last 6 shall be the jury.  When any of the 6 jurors
so drawn cannot be found or are disqualified by law to act in such case and the
parties do not supply the vacancy by agreement, the person appointed by the
presiding officer shall proceed to draw out of the jury box ballots for 3 times
the number of those deficient, which shall be disposed of and drawn as herein
provided.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-7)
§ 32.081  REPEATED JURY BALLOTING.
   After a jury has been drawn in the manner provided in §§
32.079 and
32.080, the presiding officer or person appointed by him or her shall place all
ballots so drawn out of apartment A of the jury box in apartment B thereof and
they shall remain in the apartment until all the names have been exhausted in
drawing juries from apartment A, at which time all the names in apartment B
shall be returned to apartment A, and thereafter juries shall continue to be
drawn therefrom in the manner provided in this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-8)
§ 32.082  JURY FEES IN CRIMINAL CASES.
   (A)   Jurors serving in criminal cases in the town shall be paid the sum of
$1 for each case in which they serve, the amount to be paid out of the fund
provided in the county appropriation act for the payment of jurors and
witnesses unless otherwise provided.
   (B)   The Judge in whose court be jurors serve shall within 60 days after
the service, certify to the governing body of the county the names of the
jurors and the services rendered and the governing body of the county shall
then issue its voucher on the County Treasurer for the proper payment of the
service.
(1982 Code, Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-9)
CHAPTER 33:  ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   When elections are held
   
33.02   Eligibility of voters
   
33.03   Election results
Conduct of Municipal Elections
   
33.15   Municipal election regulations
Candidates
   
33.30   Candidates filing for office
   
33.31   Filing requirements
Contest of Elections
   
33.45   Procedures
   
33.46   Time frame for contesting elections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  WHEN ELECTIONS ARE HELD.
   (A)   (1)   Election of the Mayor and Town Council members shall be by the
nonpartisan election and runoff election method prescribed in S.C. Code § 5-15-
62.
      (2)   The general election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November, commencing with the 1997 election.
   (B)   A runoff election, if necessary, pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-62,
shall be held 2 weeks following the general election.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 1-1)
§ 33.02  ELIGIBILITY OF VOTERS.
   Persons holding general registration certificates from the Newberry County
registration office and residing within the town limits for a period of 4
months or longer shall be eligible to vote at the town elections.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 1-2)
§ 33.03  ELECTION RESULTS.
   (A)   The town in determining election results will utilize the method of
determination of election results under nonpartisan election and runoff
election method as set out in S.C. Code § 5-15-62.
   (B)   In the general election, the names of those candidates declared
nominated must be placed on the ballot.
   (C)   The candidate receiving the highest number of votes is elected.
   (D)   Those candidates for a group of offices receiving the highest number
of votes, equal to the number of positions to be filled, are elected.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 4-1)  (Am. Ord. passed 9-1-2006)
CONDUCT OF MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
§ 33.15  MUNICIPAL ELECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Newberry County Voter Registration and Election Commission shall
conduct the municipal elections in accordance with Title 7 of the SC Code of
Election Laws unless otherwise specified by Title 5. The Newberry County Voter
Registration and Election Commission will certify the results of each election
to the municipality immediately following the certification of the votes cast
in each election.
   (B)   The Town of Prosperity shall reimburse the Newberry County Voter
Registration Election Commission for all costs incurred in providing ballots,
advertising elections, printing costs, poll managers' compensation and other
related additional expenses incurred in its conduct of municipal elections in
the Town of Prosperity. Poll Managers will be paid at the standard rate set by
the State Election Commission for all other elections. In the event a protest
is filed or litigation is commenced in connection with the conduct of municipal
elections, the Town of Prosperity shall pay all fees, costs and expenses
incurred in such protest or litigation. The Newberry County Voter Registration
and Election Commission shall provide invoices and/or documentation to the Town
of Prosperity of all such costs and expenses incurred in the conduct of the
Town of Prosperity municipal elections, protests, certification of results,
litigation or other costs which may be incurred, not specifically mentioned but
reasonably anticipated, in this section.
   (C)   This chapter shall take effect upon successful completion of the
following necessary actions prerequisite under Federal and state law to effect
the changes called for hereunder:
      (1)   Adoption of appropriate ordinance by the governing body of Newberry
County accepting the authority being transferred hereunder; and
      (2)   Submission to United States Department of Justice and subsequent
receipt of pre-clearance and positive response to the transfer of authority for
conducting municipal elections which would be affected hereunder.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-21-2017)
CANDIDATES
§ 33.30  CANDIDATES FILING FOR OFFICE.
   (A)   Candidates for municipal office in the town in order to qualify must
file a statement of candidacy with the Election Commission no later than 60
days before the date of the election.
   (B)   Public notice will be given 60 days prior to deadline so that
candidates may file.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 3-1)  (Am. Ord. 99-005, passed 10-13-1999)
§ 33.31  FILING REQUIREMENTS.
   Candidates must adhere to the filing time requirements specified in law as
well as satisfy all the other eligibility requirements of state law.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 3-2)
CONTEST OF ELECTIONS
§ 33.45  PROCEDURES.
   The procedures for contesting municipal elections in Prosperity are outlined
in S.C. Code Titles 5 and 7 and shall be strictly followed in the event anyone
wishes to contest an election.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 5-1)
§ 33.46  TIME FRAME FOR CONTESTING ELECTIONS.
   A written notice that a person wishes to contest an election must be filed
with the Municipal Election Commission within 48 hours after the polls are
closed and consequently, newly elected officials are not qualified to take
office until the time has elapsed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 2, Art. V, § 5-2)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
Budget
   
34.01   Requirements
   
34.02   Preparation
   
34.03   Fiscal year
   
34.04   Balanced budget
   
34.05   Adoption by reference
   
34.06   Administration
   
34.07   Clerk/Treasurer’s report
   
34.08   Mayor’s reports
Property Taxes
   
34.20   Current tax levy
   
34.21   Authority
   
34.22   Current fiscal year
   
34.23   Billing dates; penalties
   
34.24   Responsibility of Clerk/Treasurer
Annual Audit
   
34.35   Town Council responsibilities
   
34.36   Auditors
   
34.37   Designation
   
34.38   Public availability
   
34.39   Council discretion
Local Hospitality Tax
   
34.50   Establishment
   
34.51   Payment for meals or beverages
   
34.52   Payment of tax
   
34.53   Misdemeanor fine
   
34.54   Account
BUDGET
§ 34.01  REQUIREMENTS.
   As required by South Carolina Law, an operating and capital budget shall be
adopted annually by the Town Council in the form of a town ordinance and prior
to the beginning of the fiscal year.  The budget preparation calendar shall
provide for the requirements to have 2 readings on the budget ordinance.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 34.02  PREPARATION.
   The budget shall be prepared by the Mayor with assistance from the Clerk/
Treasurer and presented to the Town Council for adoption prior to the beginning
of the fiscal year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-2)
§ 34.03  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the town shall begin on July 1 of the current year and
extend through June 30 the following year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-3)
§ 34.04  BALANCED BUDGET.
   The annual operating budget shall be balanced and represents the fiscal
operational plan for the town for the coming fiscal year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-4)
§ 34.05  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The prepared budget and the estimated revenues for the funding of same for
the fiscal year is hereby adopted and is hereby made a part hereof as fully as
if incorporated herein and a copy thereof attached hereto.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-5)
§ 34.06  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall administer the budget and is authorized
to transfer appropriated funds within and between departments from the general
fund as necessary to achieve the goals of the budget.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-6)
§ 34.07  CLERK/TREASURER’S REPORT.
   The Municipal Clerk/Treasurer shall make periodic financial reports as
required by the Town Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-7)
§ 34.08  MAYOR’S REPORTS.
   The Mayor shall report the financial condition of the Town to Council as
required by the Council, but no less than once a fiscal year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-8)
PROPERTY TAXES
§ 34.20  CURRENT TAX LEVY.
   The South Carolina Code requires that a municipality shall act by ordinance
to levy taxes pursuant to public notice.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-1)
§ 34.21  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   A tax to cover the period from January 1 to December 31, both
inclusive; for the sums and in the manner hereinafter mentioned, is and shall
be levied, collected and paid into the treasury of the town for the use and
service thereof; i.e., a tax of 37.6 mills (cents) on every $100 in value of
all real estate and personal property of every description owned and used in
the town, except such as in exempt from taxation under the constitution and
laws of the state, is and shall be levied and paid into the Town Treasury for
the credit to the town for the corporated purposes, permanent improvements and
for the purpose of paying current expenses of the municipality; and further
that 37.6 mills (cents) on every $100 in value of all real estate and personal
property of every description owned and used in the town, except such as is
exempt from taxation under the constitution and laws of the state, is and shall
be levied and paid into the Town Treasury for the credit to the town, for the
payment of interest and retiring of outstanding bonds of the municipality,
making a total levy of 37.6 mills.
   (B)   The tax levied on the property as is assessed for taxation for county
and state purposes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-2)  (Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2010)
§ 34.22  CURRENT FISCAL YEAR.
   The billing dates, the penalty dates and the amount of the penalty which
shall be levied for delinquent taxes shall be the same as those established by
Newberry County pursuant to state law.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-3)
§ 34.23  BILLING DATES; PENALTIES.
Editor’s Note:
   Newberry County handles both of these duties for the town.
§ 34.24  RESPONSIBILITY OF CLERK/TREASURER.
   The Prosperity Chief of Police shall be responsible for the serving of
executions on defaulting taxpayers and the collection of delinquent taxes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-5)
ANNUAL AUDIT
§ 34.35  TOWN COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Pursuant to South Carolina State Law, the Town Council shall provide for an
independent annual audit of all financial records and transactions of the
municipality and or any agency funded wholly or in part by municipal funds and
may provide for more frequent audits as it deems necessary.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-1)
§ 34.36  AUDITORS.
   The audit or audits shall be conducted by a certified public  accountant or
firm of the accountants who have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in
the fiscal affairs of the municipal government or any of its officers.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-2)
§ 34.37  DESIGNATION.
   The Town Council may, without requiring competitive bids, designate such
accountant or firm annually or for a period not to exceed 4 years, provided,
that the designation for any particular fiscal year shall be made no later than
30 days after the beginning of the fiscal year.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-3)
§ 34.38  PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.
   The annual audit report shall be made available for public inspection.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-4)
§ 34.39  COUNCIL DISCRETION.
   The Council, in its discretion, may accept independent audits of municipal
agencies and departments and include the audits in its general report of the
audit of the municipality.
(1982 Code, Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-5)
LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX
§ 34.50  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby imposed a Local Hospitality Tax of 2% on the gross proceeds
of the sale of prepared food and beverages in establishments within the town
(hereinafter "vendor"). Payment of the hospitality tax established hereby shall
be the liability of the customer.
(Ord. 154.04, passed 9-1-2013)
§ 34.51  PAYMENT FOR MEALS OR BEVERAGES.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be collected from the customer when
payment for meals or beverages is tendered and shall be held in trust for the
benefit of the town until remitted as provided in §
34.52.
(Ord. 154.04, passed 9-1-2013)
§ 34.52  PAYMENT OF FINES.
   Payment of the hospitality tax established herein shall be remitted by the
vendor to the town on a monthly basis, along with such return or form as may be
established by the town for such purposes, not later than the 20th day of the
month and shall cover the tax due for the previous month. Any tax not timely
remitted shall be subject to a penalty of 5% of the sum owed for each month or
portion thereof until paid. The failure to collect from the customer the tax
imposed by this subchapter shall not relieve the vendor from making the
required remittance.
(Ord. 154.04, passed 9-1-2013)
§ 34.53  MISDEMEANOR FINE.
   The failure of any vendor subject to this subchapter to remit to the town
the tax imposed by the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for up
to 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 154.04, passed 9-1-2013)
§ 34.54  ACCOUNT.
   There is hereby established a special account to be known as the Local
Hospitality Tax Account into which the taxes remitted shall be deposited by the
town and used solely for the purposes provided by law.
(Ord. 154.04, passed 9-1-2013)
CHAPTER 35:  PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
35.01   Composition
   
35.02   Organization
   
35.03   Rules and regulations
   
35.04   Bonds required
   
35.05   Personnel
   
35.06   Classification and compensation
   
35.07   Swearing-in and empowering
   
35.08   Discipline
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.01  COMPOSITION.
   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and such other
officers and personnel as the Town Council shall prescribe.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1)
§ 35.02  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Town Council and shall be chief executive officer of the
Department subject always to the orders and regulations of the Town Council.
   (B)   In the exercise of his or her duties, the Police Chief shall have the
power to establish and enforce rules and regulations for the government of the
members and employees of the Department, which rules shall, however, be
consistent with the ordinances of the town and the laws of the state.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-2)
§ 35.03  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department shall be governed, operated and administered in
accordance with the Prosperity Police Department’s Policy and Procedures Manual
when duly approved by Town Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-3)
§ 35.04  BONDS REQUIRED.
   All officers of the Police Department will be bonded in the sum of $10,000
for the faithful performance of their duties. Bonds are paid for by the town
and not the individual.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-4)
§ 35.05  PERSONNEL.
   All members of the Police Department will be governed in accordance with the
town’s Personnel Policy Manual unless special provisions are outlined in the
Police Department’s Policy and Procedures Manual, in which case, the latter
will take precedence.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-5)
§ 35.06  CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Police Department shall be classified and compensated in
accordance with the town’s Classification and Compensation Plan and the most
current pay schedule adhering to the compensation plan.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-6)
§ 35.07  SWEARING-IN AND EMPOWERING.
   All police officers shall be sworn in and thereupon be invested with all the
powers and shall be subject to all the duties conferred by law within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-7)
§ 35.08  DISCIPLINE.
   Discipline will be maintained in accordance with the Policy and Procedures
Manual of the Police Department and branches of discipline will be handled
according to the procedures outlined in the town’s Personnel Policy Manual.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-8)
CHAPTER 36:  PURCHASING
Section
   
36.01   Purchasing policy
   
36.02   Purchasing authority and procedure
   
36.03   Applicable purchasing policies
§ 36.01  PURCHASING POLICY.
   It shall be the policy of the town to purchase supplies, equipment and
services at the least cost possible under the circumstances.  The town, its
elected officials, and staff shall take all actions reasonable to ensure the
safe-guarding of all funds entrusted to the town.  Where possible competitive
bidding will be used in this process.  Due to the nature of the small staff
available to the town, the requirement of public competitive purchasing shall
be balanced against the size of the procurement, and the personnel available to
accomplish that competitive bid.  The end goal shall always be, the best
interest of the citizens of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2001)
§ 36.02  PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The responsibility for purchasing requirements shall exist initially
with the department heads within the town staff.  These department heads (Town
Clerk/Treasurer, Public Works Director and head of the Police Department) shall
initiate purchase requests for items within their areas of responsibility.
   (B)   The proposed purchases shall be reconciled with budgeted, available
funds, as well as project approval.  The department heads shall draft
specifications, or a scope of work, so that the item to be purchased can be
specifically distinguished, and matched to the task to be accomplished. 
Wherever possible, no specific brand name or unique characteristics for a
particular brand will be used for the specifications.
   (C)   Once the item, or service to be procured has been established, the
following purchasing authorities and procedures are established:
      (1)   Purchases of $0–$199.99.  Initiation of this procurement must come
from a department head. Their authority to purchase items from open accounts in
the normal course of business, shall be subject only to subsequent review by
the Town Administrator and Council members. Competitive bidding is not
required, however where possible multiple sources should be contacted to ensure
that the town receives the lowest possible price.
      (2)   Purchases of $200–$5,000.  Purchases within these limits will be
initiated by department heads, but must be approved, in writing, in advance, on
a numbered town purchase order, by the Town Administrator.  Where possible,
multiple sources will be contacted and the file will be documented concerning
how the lowest, reasonable purchase price, was achieved.  If only a single
source was contacted, this procurement must be justified in writing, in the
file, by the Town Administrator.
      (3)   Purchases of $5,001–$10,000.  Purchases within these limits will be
initiated by department heads, but must be approved, in writing, in advance, on
a numbered town purchase order, by the Town Administrator, plus at least 2
other Town Council members, if the full Town Council will not be available
prior to the date required for the items/service. Competitive purchasing
procedures will be used for these purchases unless the Town Administrator
determines, in writing, that the use of competitive procedures are not in the
town’s best interest.
      (4)   Purchases over $10,000.  These purchases of supplies, equipment
and/or services shall be approved in advance by the Town Council, sitting in
public session.  These purchases shall be awarded to the lowest, responsible,
responsive bidder, after publication in a newspaper of general circulation, at
least 5 days before the last day set for the receipt of proposals.  The
newspaper notice shall include a general description of the articles or
services to be purchased and shall state where bid blanks, and bid
specifications, may be secured.  The time and place for bid opening will also
be specified.  The competitive bid process may be waived in advance upon a
proper determination in writing by the Town Administrator that competitive
bidding procedures would not be in the town’s best interest.  This non-
competitive procurement determination must be approved in advance by the Town
Council in open session.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2001)
§ 36.03  APPLICABLE PURCHASING POLICIES.
   The following purchasing policies shall be applicable:
   (A)   Local vendors.  If all bids received are for the same total amount or
unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to
the local bidder.
   (B)   Performance bonds.  The Town Administrator shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract in such form and
amount as the Town Administrator shall find reasonably necessary to protect the
best interest of the town.
   (C)   Payment, labor and/or material bonds.  The Town Administrator may
require a payment bond and/or a labor and material bond before entering into a
contract in such form and amount as the Town Administrator shall deem necessary
to protect the best interest of the town.
   (D)   Financial interest of town officials and employees prohibited.  No
member of the Town Council or any employee of the town shall have a personal
financial interest in a procurement without giving prior notice to the Town
Administrator and Town Council.  A majority of the Town Council may determine
that the involvement will not be harmful to the best interest of the town and
thereby waive this limitation.  No Town Council member who has a financial
interest in a procurement shall vote on that purchase.
   (E)   Gifts and rebates.  No elected official or town employee shall accept,
directly or indirectly any gift, rebate, money or anything of value whatsoever
from a person or entity providing goods or services to the town.
   (F)   Post procurement documentation review.  The Town Administrator shall
provide to the members of the Town Council, on a monthly basis, the
documentation in support of all procurement actions taken in the prior month. 
This documentation shall include: a register of all checks written; a copy of
the bank statement, to include all check images returned to the town by the
bank; a copy of all procurement determinations made by the Town Administrator;
and a copy of all contracts/purchase orders entered into by the town.  This
file shall be reviewed by all Town Council members, so that the actions of the
Town Administrator shall be ratified by Town Council members.
   (G)   Procurement actions in the absence of a Town Administrator.  In the
absence of the Town Administrator for more than 5 consecutive days, the Mayor
shall be authorized to act in place of the Town Administrator as contract/
purchasing officer as described in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2001)
CHAPTER 37:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
37.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 37.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
   
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
   
52.   ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
   
53.   WATER SYSTEM
   
54.   SEWERS
   
55.   UTILITY IMPACT FEES
   
56.   INTER-CONNECTION STANDARD/NET METERING
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
Department of Public Utilities
   
50.01   Operational control
   
50.02   Town Superintendent of Public Works
Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Rates and charges
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES
§ 50.01  OPERATIONAL CONTROL.
   The Department of Public Utilities shall have under its operational control
the following utilities:
   (A)   Town Water System;
   (B)   Town Waste Water System;
   (C)   Town Electrical System; and
   (D)   Town Street Maintenance and Sanitation Sections.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 50.02  TOWN SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of Town Superintendent of
Public Works, who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-2)
   (B)   The Town Superintendent of Public Works shall perform such duties as
required by the Town Council and reflected in the job description of the
position.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-3)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Service fees.
      (1)   Anyone living in a residence as a renter or owner has to pay a
service fee and the bill in their name. The service fee is:
         (a)   Renters: $300.
         (b)   Businesses: $300.
         (c)   Mobiles homes: $300.
         (d)   Home owners: $25.
         (e)   Customers outside town limits: 1-1/2 times the regular rate.
      (2)   Utilities cannot be turned on for rental purposes, if the property
owner owes a utility bill at the time.
      (3)   Permanent utilities will not be turned on in a residence or
business until all debris, trash and brush is removed from the site.
      (4)   (a)   Bucket truck (with operator and 1 worker): $50 per hour.
         (b)   Digger truck (with operator and 1 worker): $50 per hour.
         (c)   Backhoe (with operator): $45 per hour.
         (d)   Trash dump truck (town loads trash): $40 per load.
         (e)   Trash dump truck (customer loads trash): $25 per load.
         (f)   Minimum of 1 hour per machine.
      (5)   Anyone requesting the town services and/or utilities, not paying
town taxes and not possessing a previously signed contract with the town, shall
be charged 1-1/2 times the citizen rate.
      (6)   Any utility customer not using all of the town services due to
their request shall be charged 1-1/2 times the regular rate, including 1-1/
2 times for tap fees.
   (B)   Payment of utility bills; penalty and discontinuance of service for
non-payment; reconnection charges.
      (1)   All utility bills are due and payable by 5:00 p.m. on the tenth of
the month, with a 10% penalty due after the tenth. In the event the bill is
unpaid after the twenty-fifth of the month, service shall be discontinued
unless a written appeal has been filed in accordance with division (C) below.
      (2)   When any of the due dates for discontinuance of service fall on a
Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, an additional day shall be granted.
      (3)   A charge of $ 15 will be applied for the first time cut off on the
twenty-sixth of the month to all accounts with unpaid services, to offset
Department processing costs. Second time cut off fees shall be $25. Third time
cut off fees shall be $35. Fourth time and after cut off fees shall be $40.
   (C)   Opportunity for hearing in case of disputed bills.
      (1)   In the event a customer disputes the amount or validity of any
bill, such customer shall be entitled to a hearing before the Town Cleric/
Treasurer after the bill has already been paid, under protest. The hearing may
be obtained by written notice to the Clerk/Treasurer by the tenth or the month
in which the bill is due. The notice must state the reason for disputing the
bill. Any customer aggrieved by a decision of the Clerk/Treasurer shall have
the right to appeal the decision to the Town Council by giving a notice of the
appeal to the Town Council within five days. All hearings shall be scheduled
with reasonable promptness. No service will be discontinued during the pendency
of any hearing before the Clerk/Treasurer or the Town Council.
      (2)   Upon finalization of utility account, in order to obtain future
services with the town, all applicable service fees must be paid and account
application requirements must be met.
   (D)   Indebtedness collection. All debts owed to the town shall be collected
in the manner provided by law.
   (E)   Prohibition to reside or occupy without water. It shall be unlawful
for a person to reside in a dwelling or operate a firm or corporation as long
as the water is disconnected.
   (F)   Individual metering. All dwelling units classified as separate
dwelling units must be metered individually. This includes all apartment units.
   (G)   Town’s liability limits. The town will not be responsible for damages
occurring between the service meters and the premises being served. Service
will be maintained where possible and reasonable, however, the town cannot be
responsible for failure of service due to circumstances beyond its control. Any
interruption of service, for whatever reason, will be remedial and service
restored as quickly as possible.
   (H)   (1)   The town hereby imposes an administrative fee in the amount of
$25 to defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that
are sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt
Collection Act, S.C. Code §§ 12-56-10 et seq. This fee is hereby declared to be
a collection cost that arises by operation of law and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
      (2)   The town hereby declares that the administrative fee charged by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection cost to the city/
town, which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and recovered from the
debtor.
(Am. Ord. passed 4-5-1988; Am. Ord. passed 5-29-1990; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-
1990; Am. Ord. passed 6-13-1991; Am. Ord. passed 3-17-1992; Am. Ord. passed 3-
1-1998; Am. Ord. 99-010, passed 12- 21-1999; Am. Ord. 99-011, passed 12-21-
1999; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed 10-
30-2006; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2018)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Health and Sanitation
   
51.01   County’s Board of Health
   
51.02   Waste water disposal
   
51.03   Pollution of water
   
51.04   Spitting on sidewalks
   
51.05   Health Department; obstructing, hindering and the like
   
51.06   Public nuisance that endangers public health
Littering and Rubbish
   
51.15   Weed control
   
51.16   Accumulations prohibited and declared nuisance
   
51.17   Notice to abate nuisance
   
51.18   Failure to comply with notice
   
51.19   Correction by town; costs; lien
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal System
   
51.30   Definitions
   
51.31   Users of system
   
51.32   Dumping solid waste
   
51.33   Collection vehicles
   
51.34   Garbage containers
   
51.35   Garbage preparation
   
51.36   Yard trash
   
51.37   Commercial/industrial establishments
   
51.38   Burning of trash or garbage
   
51.39   Town’s limitations
   
51.40   Collection intervals
   
51.41   Plastic bags
   
51.42   Placement for collection
   
51.43   Collection fees
   
51.44   Disturbing solid waste containers
   
51.45   Code enforcement fee schedule
 
   
51.99   Penalty
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 51.01  COUNTY’S BOARD OF HEALTH.
   All rights, duties, powers privileges and responsibilities imposed by law
upon local boards of health within the town limits are of no force and effect
and, by law, the direction, control and supervision of health and matters
pertaining to health are vested in the county’s Board of Health.  The town
shall continue to bear the expense which may be incurred in correcting and
abating nuisances, maintaining the water supplies, and sewage disposal plants
and other recognized and approved activities for the prevention of disease and
the promotion of public health; and the authority of the town’s committee or
commission in charge of the water and sewer systems shall have the necessary
powers and rights to carry out its duties.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1)
§ 51.02  WASTE WATER DISPOSAL.
   “Privies” or toilet facilities which are not connected to the public sewage
system or to a state’s Board of Health approved septic tank will not be
permitted in the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 51.03  POLLUTION OF WATER.
   In shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or knowingly pollute or
damage any spring, well, stream or cistern upon the premises of another person
or persons or to pollute or damage any portion of the public water system.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-2) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.04  SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit upon the sidewalks or upon the
floor or wall of any public building including churches and schools within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-3) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.05  HEALTH DEPARTMENT; OBSTRUCTING, HINDERING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder or obstruct in any manner the
county’s Health Department or any representative thereof in the discharge of
his or her duties within the town limits.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-4) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.06  PUBLIC NUISANCE THAT ENDANGERS PUBLIC HEALTH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or neglect to abate a
nuisance which endangers the public health, after having been directed to do so
by the Health Officer.
   (B)   The fine and/or other penalty to be in addition to any expense
incurred by the town or the Health Officer in abating the nuisance or in
carrying out the instructions of the Board of Health for the neglect or refusal
for which the fine and/or other penalty is imposed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-5) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
LITTERING AND RUBBISH
§ 51.15  WEED CONTROL.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant or person in charge for
any real property located within the town to at all times cut and mow the
grass, weeds and undergrowth on his lot and in the space between the property
line and the curb line in the front, in the rear and alongside thereof, so that
neither the grass, weeds nor undergrowth shall grow to a height greater than 18
inches, other than trees, shrubbery, flowers or other ornamental plants. The
duty to cut and mow grass, weeds and undergrowth shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Land which is being tilled and farmed on an annual basis.
      (2)   Undeveloped woodlands in a natural state, except for lots which
have been cut within the last 3 years after receiving notice from the Town
Administrator.
      (3)   Vacant lots within a subdivision, except when such properties abut
residences or public rights of way, a minimum 40-foot strip shall be cleared
and maintained. Where such clearing of the 40-foot strip results in more than
50% of the lot being cut, then the entire lot shall be required to be cut.
   (B)   Whenever any weeds, undergrowth vines grow to such density as to
constitute a haven of rats, snakes or other vermin on any real property within
the city and become menace to public health and the neighborhood, the owner,
tenant, or person in charge of such property shall remove such growth upon
being notified by the Town Administrator or his representative.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 2-3; S.C. Code § 5-7-80)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-
2009)
§ 51.16  ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED AND DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subchapter, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is in a state of disrepair and
incapable of being moved under its own power or has no up-to-date inspection
sticker or license tag.
      BURNED BUILDING. A building that has been partly burned and left open and
is a safety hazard to the general public and unsightly to the neighborhood.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant or person in charge of any
real property in the town to permit or cause the accumulation or presence of
any rubbish, debris, rubble, trash, litter, bricks, concrete, scrap lumber, old
refrigerators, washing machines, clothes dryers, stoves, abandoned motor
vehicles, torn down or burned buildings, old machinery or implements, or other
similar unsightly material, or any foul or noxious effluvia. Any such
accumulations or presence of such material or guides is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. Conditions which constitute a public nuisance include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Deposit of trash, garbage, waste, or debris on private or public
property in other than approved disposal containers;
      (2)   Accumulation of water in which mosquitoes may breed;
      (3)   Growth of vegetation or accumulation of materials which provide a
harbor or breeding place for rodents or other pests;
      (4)   A dilapidated structure which is unfit for habitation, or which
provides a harbor for rodents, pests, stray animals, or persons engaged in
controlled substance use or sale;
      (5)   Unauthorized production, transportation, storage, or discharge of
fumes, dust, smoke, noise, chemicals, toxic materials, waste, or other
materials which pose a threat to public health or safety;
      (6)   Any condition which is conducive to the transmission of
communicable disease or which increases the hazard of fire; or
      (7)   A junked or abandoned, unlicensed, inoperable, and unsecured motor
vehicle which provides a harbor or breeding place for insects or rodents.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 2-1; 1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. I, § 2.5; S.C. Code §
5-7-80)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
§ 51.17  NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Administrator to serve or cause to be
served a "Courtesy Summons" upon the owner, tenant, or person in charge of any
premises on which weeds, grass and undergrowth, other than trees, shrubbery,
flowers or other ornamental plants, are permitted to grow to a height exceeding
18 inches and also upon the owner, tenant, or person in charge of property on
which there is an accumulation or presence of rubbish, rubble, trash, litter,
bricks, concrete, scrap lumber, old refrigerators, washing machines, clothes
dryers, stoves, abandoned vehicles, torn down or burned buildings, old
machinery or implements, or other similar unsightly material. Such notice shall
allow the owner, tenant, or person in charge of the premises a minimum of 14
days in which to remove or have removed the violations. If the owner, tenant,
or person in charge cannot be located to be served personally, service shall be
made by posting a copy of the summons on the subject property and mailing a
copy to the person at the address on the County of Newberry's property tax
records.
   (B)   If such owner, tenant, or person in charge of the premises has been
previously served a "Courtesy Summons" for nuisance abatement for the same
property during the same calendar year then such owner, tenant, or person in
charge of the premises shall be issued a "Uniform Ordinance Summons".
   (C)   A "Courtesy Summons" provides a minimum of 14-days notice and requires
that the owner, tenant, or person in charge of the property must appear in
person for a hearing before the Town Administrator or his designee at the time
and date as prescribe in the "Courtesy Summons." At this hearing the owner,
tenant, or person in charge of the property must pay an administrative fee of
$40 and present proof that the nuisance has been abated. The administrative fee
may be waived if it is a first appearance and the nuisance is abated. Failure
to appear at this hearing will result in the owner, tenant, or owner person in
charge of the property being served a "Uniform Ordinance Summons" to appear
before the Municipal Judge at the Prosperity Town Hall.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-80)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
§ 51.18  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   (A)   If the owner, tenant, or person in charge of any real property fails
to comply with the "Courtesy Summons," the Town Administrator shall serve or
cause to be served a "Uniform Ordinance Summons" to appear before the Municipal
Judge at the Prosperity Town Hall. If the owner, tenant, or person in charge of
any real property, does not abate the nuisance after receiving the "Courtesy
Summons," the town may institute proceedings to have a private contractor or
town forces cut the lot as specified in § 51.20 and/or have the Municipal Court
enforce the penalties and recover costs expected for violations of §§
51.15 through
51.17.
   (B)   If the owner, tenant, or person in charge of any real property has
been through the "Courtesy Summons" and "Uniform Ordinance Summons" process for
the same, real property during the same calendar year, then such owner, tenant,
or person in charge of the premises shall be issued a "Uniform Summons" to
appear before the Municipal Judge at the Prosperity Town Hall for violations of
§§
51.15,
51.16, or
51.17.
(S.C. Code § 5-7-80)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
§ 51.19  CORRECTION BY TOWN; COSTS; LIEN.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties in §
51.99 when an owner, tenant, or person in charge of any real property fails to
comply with the "Courtesy Summons" notice and conditions of this chapter, the
town, acting by and through the Town Administrator or his agent, may provide
for the removal of conditions that constitute a violation of this chapter
either by private contractor or by town forces upon any one or more of the
following conditions:
      (1)   The owner of the real property is outside the jurisdiction of the
Municipal Court.
      (2)   The condition of the real property constitutes an immediate threat
to the health and safety of the area residents as adjudged by the Town
Administrator.
      (3)   The property owner elects to have the town clean the lot and have
the bill sent to him.
   (B)   The costs of correction by the town plus a fee of $40 shall be charged
to the owner, tenant, or person in charge, shall be included as a part of the
"Uniform Ordinance Summons" and may be recovered in Municipal Court, and shall
be a lien on the property which shall be added to and collected in the same
manner as property taxes.
(S.C. Code Ann. § 5-7-80)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 51.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Any office, retail store, restaurant, hotel,
motel, garage, trailer park, charitable or governmental office or private
clubs.
   GARBAGE.  Includes all putrescible wastes, except sewage and body waste,
including waste accumulated of animal food or vegetable matter, and waste that
attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in storing meat, fish, fowl,
fruit and vegetables and all of such wastes or accumulation of vegetable matter
of residences, restaurants, hotels and places where food is prepared for human
consumption.  The term GARBAGE shall not include recognized industrial by-
products.
   REFUSE.  Includes solid waste, including garbage, rubbish and yard trash.
   RUBBISH.  Includes refuse other than garbage (tin cans, bottles, ashes
(cold), paper, pasteboard, cardboard or wooden boxes or other waste materials
produced in the normal course of doing business or every day living).  The term
RUBBISH shall not include recognized industrial by-products.
   SOLID WASTE MATTER.  Useless, unwanted or discarded material or matter with
insufficient liquid content to be free flowing.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.  The purposeful, systematic control of the storage,
collection, transport, processing and disposal of solid waste.
   SUITABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL.  Containers constructed of metal or plastic, with tight
fitting cover of a capacity of not less than 2 cubic yards and not more that 8
cubic yards constructed so as to permit its use with the loading and hauling
equipment as provided by the town for the removal of garbage and waste matter
from the commercial and manufacturing establishments within the town.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL.  Containers constructed of metal or plastic with
tight-fitting covers of a capacity of not more than 32 gallons.  Heavy duty
plastic bags may also be used, but should not contain wastes that attract
animals or other scavengers.  In this case, heavy duty plastic bags shall be
placed in places where metal or plastic containers would normally be placed.
      (3)   YARD TRASH CONTAINERS.  Yard trash may be placed in suitable
residential containers listed above, but may also be placed in cardboard
cartons, baskets or wooden boxes.
   YARD TRASH.  Includes leaves, weeds, grass or shrubbery cuttings, vines,
trees and tree limbs, and other refuse attending the care of lawns or yards.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 1)
§ 51.31  USERS OF SYSTEM.
   Every citizen shall use the town’s solid waste collection and disposal
system.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-1)
§ 51.32  DUMPING SOLID WASTE.
   No person shall deposit solid waste on or below the surface of ground other
than in a manner prescribed herein.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-2)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-17-2002)
§ 51.33  COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   (A)   Solid waste collection vehicles shall be so equipped and operated as
to prevent refuse from being blown, dropped or spilled there from and offensive
odors escaping there from.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-3)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who does not pay a
sanitation fee to the town to place or deposit at curbside or at any other
location for collection by the town any solid waste of any type, which was
generated outside the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any residence,
dwelling unit, business or commercial premise to allow any person who does not
pay a sanitation fee to the town to place or deposit in a town designated
container any solid waste which was generated outside the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2002)
§ 51.34  GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish or utilize open garbage bins to store
garbage until pick-up.  Only town-approved receptacles and dumpsters will be
allowed.  Any existing bins shall be considered a non- conforming use and shall
be eliminated within 2 years of this section.
(Ord. 00-2, passed 3-21-2000) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.35  GARBAGE PREPARATION.
   (A)   All solid waste mixed with water or other liquids shall be drained and
wrapped in paper before being placed in the container.
   (B)   Thirty-two gallon containers shall not weigh more than 75 pounds.
   (C)   The lid or cover of every container shall be kept securely in place at
all times except when filling or emptying containers.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-5) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.36  YARD TRASH.
   Yard trash may be placed in cardboard boxes, baskets or wooden boxes.  Yard
trash such as limbs may not be longer than 4 feet and no greater than 3 inches
in diameter. Larger limbs must be disposed of by the owner/renter of the
premises.  Ordinance permitting  only 1 limb and trash pick up per family per
month will be allowed, with the stipulation provided that the load be in
compliance with town ordinances and  placed by the side of the street.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-6)  (Am. Ord. passed 3-17-1992; Am. Ord. 10-16-
2001)
§ 51.37  COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The owner of commercial or manufacturing establishments shall provide the
container or containers as are necessary for  the storage of solid waste and
the container or containers shall at all times be in a place easily accessible
to town equipment and no service shall be rendered to those establishments
permitting objects, obstructions or vehicles to hinder the servicing of the
containers in any way.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-7)
§ 51.38  BURNING OF TRASH OR GARBAGE.
   The outdoor burning of solid waste matter is prohibited unless permission is
obtained from the town’s Fire Department.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-8)
§ 51.39  TOWN’S LIMITATIONS.
   The town shall have the right  to limit the amount of solid waste matter it
will collect from any residence, business, industry or commercial
establishment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-9)  (Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2001)
§ 51.40  COLLECTION INTERVALS.
   (A)   The town shall collect from such businesses, commercial or industrial
establishments all such solid waste matter at the time and intervals as deemed
best for the health and sanitation of the community.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-10)
   (B)   (1)   For residential solid waste collection the collection shall be
“curbside” and will be at times and intervals as deemed best for the health and
sanitation of the community.
      (2)   This residential solid waste collection includes yard trash.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-11)
§ 51.41  PLASTIC BAGS.
   When heavy duty plastic bags are used as containers, they must be securely
closed with fasteners.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-12)
§ 51.42  PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION.
   Solid waste matter in proper containers is to be placed as near as possible
to a public road or street, however, solid waste matter including yard trash
shall not be placed in a public road, street or alley, nor in any way be placed
so that it could interfere with the free flow of traffic.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-13)
§ 51.43  COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   Residential garbage collection is $12 per month. Residential garbage
collection for customers outside the town limits is $18 provided the truck
passes the residence on the regular route. Cannot make a special trip to pick-
up garbage.
   (B)   (1)   Rates for garbage collection from commercial establishments is
$13.15 per month for one pick-up per week and $13.15 for each additional pick-
up.
      (2)   Rates for garbage collection from commercial establishments
utilizing a dumpster is as follows:
 
Commercial Dumpster One Pick-Up per Week Two Pick-Ups per Week
4 cubic yards       $54.56/month         $109.12/month
6 cubic yards       $81.84/month         $163.67/month
8 cubic yards       $109.12/month        $218.23/month
 
   (C)   Restaurants or any place that prepares food is required to have a
minimum of 2 pick-ups per week.
   (D)   (1)   Each business or commercial establishment is required to have
enough pick-ups as are necessary to keep its trash off the streets.
      (2)   Scheduled yard trash pick-ups for all residences are bi-weekly on
Tuesday. Special pick-up fees apply for “other” pick-ups outside of scheduled
bi-weekly pick-ups.
      (3)   Special trash pick-ups may also be scheduled through Town Hall and
the fees for such pick-ups shall be $25 per load if the person or persons
requesting the pick-up do the loading; if town personnel does the loading each
special pick-up will cost $50 per load.
   (E)   If a residence is unoccupied and no garbage or trash is generated and
no pick-up is needed, no garbage fee is required of owner. Business storage
areas or warehouses where no garbage or trash is generated and the main
business takes place elsewhere in the town will not require a garbage fee.
   (F)   Rates for recycling collection is $4 per month for 1 pick-up bi-
weekly.
(Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 51.44  DISTURBING SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pick from or disturb any
garbage containers provided for in this subchapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any garbage container on
the street or sidewalk, or to damage it in any way so as to make it leak or to
bend it or its cover, or to damage it so as to prevent the container from being
tightly closed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-2)
   (C)   Any person allowing or permitting a domestic animal owned or under his
or her control to scavenge in a garbage container shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.45  CODE ENFORCEMENT FEE SCHEDULE.
   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section may result in the
issuance of a notice of violation. Failure to abate the violation within 72
hours of receiving the citation shall result in mandatory removal of the
prohibited material by town personnel. Charges for mandatory removals shall be
billed at the rate set forth in the code enforcement fee schedule in this
section. The town reserves the right to add this fee to the property owner or
tenants monthly utility bill. Failure to pay these charges may result in
termination of municipal utility services, or other appropriate collection
methods including legal action. Additionally, the town reserves the right to
bill rental property owners directly.
   (A)   Half-trailer load (4 cy): $62.50.
   (B)   Full-trailer load (8 cy): $125.
(Ord. 51.46, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this code for which no specific
penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   After failure of the owner, tenant, or person in charge of any
real property to abate any specified nuisance after notification by the Town
Administrator, it shall be the duty of the Town Administrator or his agent to
initiate proceedings against the owner, occupant, tenant or person in charge of
any real property in Municipal Court. Upon conviction of a violation of §§
51.15 through
51.17, such owner, tenant, or person shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 (plus any costs that may have been expended to correct the nuisance)
and/or 30 days in jail.
      (2)   Each and every 14-day period following the initial "Courtesy
Summons" which any owner, tenant, or person in charge of any real property in
the town limits permits a violation to continue to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (3)   An owner, tenant, or person in charge of any real property who
objects to the proposed removal or abatement set forth in this chapter shall
present his objections in writing to the Town Administrator within 5 days after
the mailing of such notice and should request a hearing. Upon the failure to
object and request a hearing, the owner, tenant, or person in charge shall be
deemed to have consented to the determination that the conditions of the
property constitute a menace to the public health or a nuisance.
      (4)   After hearing the owner, tenant, or person in charge of the
property, the Town Administrator may revise, modify or abandon the proposed
action.
(S.C. Code Ann. § 5-7-80)
   (C)   Anyone violating §
51.33 will be fined a minimum of $50 and up to $400 per occurrence.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 52:  ELECTRICAL SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Permit required
   
52.02   Transferring electrical service
   
52.03   Rates
   
52.04   Fuel adjustment clause
   
52.05   Installation of poles; rates
   
52.06   Street lights
   
52.07   Security lights
   
52.08   Unauthorized electrical connection
   
52.09   Violations
§ 52.01  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit must be obtained from Newberry County to obtain new electrical
service to a building.  Permit issuance shall be contingent upon adherence to
the Building Code and the Electrical Code by the person or persons seeking
service.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-1)
§ 52.02  TRANSFERRING ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   Where there is an existing deposit and the customer has been a good paying
customer with no problems in meeting service debt obligations for the past 5
years, service may be transferred using the existing deposit plus a $10
transfer fee.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-2)
§ 52.03  RATES.
   The following rates apply to customers of the town's electric system. These
rates shall remain in effect until changed by the Town Council.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Basic charge: $9.53.
      (2)   1 through 999 KW: $0.1292
      (3)   1,000 KW and up: $0.1091.
   (B)   Commercial.
      (1)   Basic charge: $9.53.
      (2)   1 through 1,499 KW: $0.1442.
      (3)   1,000 KW and up: $0.1111.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-3)  (Am. Ord. passed 7-1-2000; Am. Ord. passed
8-17-2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-28-2016; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2018)
§ 52.04  FUEL ADJUSTMENT CLAUSE.
   The town’s utility billing system will not accommodate for listing the fuel
adjustment amount on the bill.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-4)
§ 52.05  INSTALLATION OF POLES; RATES.
   (A)   The fee for the installation to electrical poles shall be the cost of
the pole plus 10% and a flat fee of $10.  This is providing that the location
site is accessible to the bucket truck without moving anything.  Also, the town
assumes no responsibility, whatsoever, for damages around the property that may
occur during installation.
   (B)   Underground electric: $1.75 per foot.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-5)  (Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2010)
§ 52.06  STREET LIGHTS.
   Street lights will be installed by the town on every other pole within the
town limits.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-6)
§ 52.07  SECURITY LIGHTS.
   (A)   The cost of providing a security light for a customer in good standing
with the town shall be as follows:
 
Residential (175 watt)        $8.35 per month
Commercial (400 watt)         $12.60 per month
Commercial (750 - 1,000 watt) $17.85 per month
 
   (B)   All above rates are per month per light rates. It is required that a
3-year contract be signed by the customer. The installation fee is $20 per
security light if adding light to existing pole. Pole installation fee is $50
per pole.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-7)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2006; Am. Ord. passed
6-19-2018)
§ 52.08  UNAUTHORIZED ELECTRICAL CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an unauthorized connection to
the town’s electrical system for any purpose.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 2-1) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.09  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the rules and
regulations of the Public Utility Department of the town pertaining to the use
of lights, electric current, manner of wiring buildings, erecting wire and
fixtures and connecting same with or to any portion of the town’s electrical
system for whatever reason.  Anyone guilty of such violations may be punished
in accordance with the provisions of the Code.  Also, if the violator is a
customer of the town’s Public Utility Department, service may be discontinued.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. II, § 3) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 53:  WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
53.01   Unauthorized tapping of water mains
   
53.02   New service connections
   
53.03   Water and sewer lines
   
53.04   Rates for service
   
53.05   Cross connection control
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 54
§ 53.01  UNAUTHORIZED TAPPING OF WATER MAINS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons except those duly authorized,
to “tap” or take water form the street mains, service pipes or lay a service
pipe or set a cock, hydrant or any other fixture by which water may be taken
from the town’s water system.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 1-3) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.02  NEW SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   For each new water or sewer connection, the person or firm applying for
service shall pay a “tap” in the sum of $1,000. Outside town rates shall be 1-
1/2 times the regular rate.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 1-4)  (Am. Ord. passed 3-17-1998; Am. Ord.
passed 6-19-2011)
§ 53.03  WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Water and sewer lines will be run a maximum of 50 feet along the right
of way or to the private property line, whichever is the shortest.
   (B)   Water and sewer lines installed by developers must meet the town’s
specification prior to being accepted by the town.  Any developer which
installs water and sewer lines to be deeded to the town may be reimbursed up to
$1 per foot of line, if Council finds it to be in the best interest of the
town.  Reimbursement will be paid at the time the lines are conveyed to the
town (if inside existing town limits), or at the time the lines are conveyed
and the property is annexed into the town limits.  For reimbursement to occur,
the line must be within town limits.
(Ord. 99-003, passed 6-15-1999)
§ 53.04  RATES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Residential. The following rates apply to customers of the town's
water system. These rates shall remain in effect until changed by the Town
Council.
      (1)   Residential. $20.93 for 0 to 1,000 gallons, plus $2.94 for each
additional 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   Commercial. $25.14 for 0 to 1,000 gallons, plus $2.94 for each
additional 1,000 gallons.
      (3)   Miller/Pineridge. $439.80 for 0 to 25,000 gallons, plus $2.94 for
each additional 1,000 gallons.
      (4)   Second water meter for water that does not go through sewer. $3.31
per month availability, plus $2.94 per 1,000 gallons.
      (5)   Water rates outside town. 1-1/2 times the rates listed.
   (B)   Institutions. The town may, at its discretion, provide special water
service rates to schools and other public agencies.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, §§ 2-1, 2-2)  (Am. Ord. passed 7-1-2000; Am. Ord.
passed 6-28-2016; Am. Ord. passed 6-19-2018)
§ 53.05  CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   To protect and maintain the town’s water system so as to
continuously provide safe and potable water in sufficient quantity and pressure
and free from potential hazards to the health of its consumers.
      (2)   To facilitate the elimination or control of any existing
unprotected cross connections between the potable water lines or any piping
systems or containers containing polluting substances.
      (3)   To provide for the establishment and maintenance of a continuing
program of cross- connection control which will  effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the potable water supply system by cross
connection.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-1)
   (B)   (1)   For the protection of the public water supply system against
possible contamination arising from problems involving cross connections, the
town is authorized to adopt regulations establishing and maintaining a cross
connection control program.  The program shall include, but not be limited to
the survey, inspection and approval of all existing facilities, requirements
for periodic testing of all back-flow prevention devises and the assessment and
collection  of fees in an amount sufficient to cover the cost of the program.
      (2)   The cross connection control program shall be in accordance with
the regulations promulgated by the South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control, which regulations are adopted by reference and made
applicable to the town’s system and all connections thereto.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works of the town’s system is hereby given
the primary responsibility for enforcement of the provisions of this ordinance
and for maintaining all records pertaining thereto.
      (4)   The regulations and provisions of this section apply to the entire
water system of the town, to all water customers of the town, and to all
connections with the  water supply  of the town, wherever located on system
served by town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-2)
   (C)   All new services installed on the town’s system will have dual check
valves, and all existing services that has to be worked on or repaired will
have a check valve installed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-3)
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any connection to
the town’s water supply system without the approval of the Director of the
town’s water system.  Each day that the unauthorized connection exists prior to
obtaining this approval, shall constitute a separate offense and be punishable
by a fine of $100 per day.
      (2)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
section or of the regulation establishing a cross connection control program
pursuant to this section shall be served with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and shall be given a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof.  The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.  Failure to correct the
violation within the time limit specified shall constitute an unlawful act
subject to the penalties set forth in division (D)(1) above.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-4)  (Ord. passed 12-15-1992)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWERS
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Use of public sewer required
   
54.03   Private sewage disposal
   
54.04   Building sewers and connections
   
54.05   Use of public sewers
   
54.06   Removal, transportation and disposition of scavenger wastes
   
54.07   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
54.08   Sewer surcharge rates
   
54.09   Surcharges
   
54.10   Sewer rates
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard  laboratory  procedure, 
5  days  at 20°C, expressed milligrams per liter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-3)
      BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge form soil waste and drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-4)
      BUILDING SEWER.  The extension form the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-5)
      COUNCIL.  The members of the Town Council of the Town of Prosperity,
South Carolina, including the Mayor and 4 Council members.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-2)
      GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation of
cooking and dispensing of food from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-6)
      GENDER.  A word importing masculine gender only, shall extend and be
applied to females and firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-7)
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid waste from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-8)
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-20)
      NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into water-source, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-9)
      PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation
or group.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-10)
      pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-11)
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The waste from the preparation of cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing to public
sewers with no particle greater that 1/2 inch in dimension.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-12)
      PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-13)
      SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-14)
      SEWAGE.  A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business,
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-15)
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of the devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-16)
      SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-17)
      SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-18)
      SEWER SURCHARGE.  A charge for sewer service and treatment service for
wastes having characteristics different form sanitary wastes and for which
additional charges must be assessed in order for the waste to make compensation
for additional expenses incurred.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-19)
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-20)
      SLUDGE.  Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial water which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds, for any
period of duration longer that 15 minutes, more than 5 times the average 24-
hour concentration proposed during normal operation.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-21)
      STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the most recent edition of Standard Methods of Water, Sewage and Industrial
Wastes Treatment, published jointly by the American Public Health Association,
the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control
Federation.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-22)
      STORM DRAIN.  Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a sewer which
carries storm and surface waters and rain fall but excludes sewage and
industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-23)
      STREET.  Embraces streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys,
lanes and viaducts, all other public highways in the sanitary area.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-24)
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids which are removable by laboratory
filtering.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-25)
      TOTAL SOLIDS.  The sum of suspended matter, satiable matter and dissolved
matter, both volatile and nonvolatile.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-26)
      TOWN.  The Town of Prosperity, South Carolina.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-1)
      WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-27)
   (B)   All other words shall be construes as having the meaning defined in
Glossary Water and Sewage Control Engineering, published by the Water Pollution
Control Federation, Washington, D.C. or by their general usage, if undefined.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-28)
§ 54.02  USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any sewage or other
polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance
with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-2)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank cesspool or other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage,
where public sewers are available.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-3)
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupance, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within this town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there shall be
located a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with provisions
of this chapter within 90 days after written notice from the town to the
property owner requiring the property owner to make connection thereto,
provided that the public sewer shall be within 100 feet of the property line.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-4)
Penalty, see § 54.99
§ 54.03  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under provisions of §
54.02(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-1)
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system other than a septic tank, privy, privy vault, or cesspool for a single
family dwelling, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
town; the application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
town which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary by the town.  A permit and inspection
fee shall be paid to the town at the time the application for permit is filed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-2)
   (C)   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the town. The town
shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and in any
event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the town when the work is
ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are covered. 
The inspection shall be made within 2 working days of the receipt of notice by
the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-3)
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of the private sewage system
shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Board of Health.  No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-4)
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-5)
   (F)   At such time as a public sewer comes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned, cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt within 60 days of notification to do so by the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-6)
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to nullify
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the appropriate state or
county Health Officer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-7)
§ 54.04  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person not authorized by the town shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit form the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-1)
   (B)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits, (a) residential
and commercial service and (b) for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes; in either case the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town.  The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specification or other information
considered pertinent in the judgement of the town.  A permit and inspection fee
for a residential, commercial building sewer permit or an industrial building
sewer permit shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-2)
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer to the property line shall be borne by the owner.  The owner
shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-3)
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.  Where 1 building stands to the rear of another on a single lot and
no private sewer in available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the town may grant
permission for the building sewer from the front building to be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as 1 building sewer, upon a showing by
the applicant that it is not feasible that the 2 buildings so connected will
ultimately be on separate building lots.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-4)
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with the new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the town, to meet all of
the requirements of this chapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-5)
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and back-filling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the appropriate specifications of the ASTM or WPCF manual of Practice No. 9,
all installation to be subject to the expressed written approval of the town
and in no case shall the size of the pipe installed be less than 4-inches in
nominal diameter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-6)
(Changed Sept 18, 1990)
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement or first floor. No building sewer shall be
made parallel to or within 3 feet or any bearing wall, which might thereby by
weakened the depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads
(automobiles and the like) which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall
be made at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible.  The
building sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-7)
   (H)   No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
of groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-8)
   (I)   Before any underground portions thereof are covered, the applicant for
the building sewer permit shall notify the town when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.  The connection
thereof shall be made to the public sewer by the town, and only after
inspection.  The inspection thereof shall be made within 2 working days of the
receipt of notice by the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-9)
   (J)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so at to protect the public from hazards. 
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-10)
   (K)   The town shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location,
depth and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as
may be necessary to make an adequate description.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-11)
   (L)   A clean-out on all new sewer installations must be installed, and on
old installations when we have a problem with the line; the customer may be
given a choice to have a clean-out installed with inspection by town sewer
employee, or the customer will be responsible for the sewer line to the right-
of-way.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-12)
§ 54.05  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff or subsurface drainage, to any public
sewer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-1)
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following waters or wastes to any public sewers.
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process to  constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, to create a public nuisance or to create any
hazard in the receiving waters in the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.6 or greater than 8.5
or containing heavy concentrations of salts or having any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and
personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction in the flow of sewage or other interference to the proper
operation of the sewage works such as but not limited to ashes, cinders, sand,
mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, manure, hair and fleshing, or entrails and paper dishes,
cups, mild containers and the like either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-2)
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the town, that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process or equipment having adverse effect on the receiving stream or
can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. 
In forming their opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the town will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows, and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. 
The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils whether
emulsified or not in excess of 100 mg/1 or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F or 0°C and
65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;  (The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 hp. or
greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the town.)
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals in excess of the
following:
 
Chromium 1.0 mg/1 (either III or VI or in combination)
Lead     2.0 mg/1
Tin      2.0 mg/1
Zinc     2.0 mg/1
Copper   0.5 mg/1
Nickel   1.0 mg/1
Cyanide  2.0 mg/1
 
         or combination of the above in excess of 9.0 mg/1 in the effluent, or
which when blended with the waste in the trunk line will have a concentration
in excess of 1.0 mg/1 when it reaches the treatment plant, division (D) below
not withstanding, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such
a degree that any such material received in composite sewage at the sewage
treatment works exceeds the limits established by the town for such materials.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the town as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage to
meet requirements to the state, federal and other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge of the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive waste or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the town in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH outside of the range of 6.5 to
8.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)    Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids such as, but
not limited to Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues or of dissolved
solids; such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions;
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow of concentrations of wastes  constituting
sludge as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant: 
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-3)
   (D)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (C) above, which in the judgment of
the town may have a deleterious act upon the sewage works, processes, equipment
or receiving water, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the town may:
         (a)   Reject wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition with discharge
to the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of division (I) below.
      (2)   If the town permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the town subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-4)
   (E)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units.
      (2)   All interceptors shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (3)   All interceptors shall be supplied and properly maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-5)
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment for flow equalizing  facilities is
provided for any waters, or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-6)
   (G)   (1)   It shall be required by the town that the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes install a suitable
control manhole.  When deemed necessary, the town may require additional meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the waste.
      (2)   The manhole shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the town. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-7)
   (H)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for
Examination of Water and Waste Water, published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at the control manhole.  Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence or hazards to life, limb and
property.
      (2)   In order for the town to properly evaluate the effect of the waste
on the system, an industry must submit, along with the plan and the like,
required in §
54.03, an industrial waste questionnaire form.  These forms are available from
the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-8)
   (I)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.  The table which follows is the basis on which sewer
surcharges shall be assessed for the treatment of industrial and/or unusual
strength or characteristic waste.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-9)
§ 54.06  REMOVAL, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSITION OF SCAVENGER WASTES.
   (A)   (1)   Persons desiring to discharge scavenger wastes into the sewage
treatment plant shall be required to obtain a permit from the town on forms
furnished by the town.  Scavenger wastes shall mean putrid or offensive matter,
the contents of all privies, septic tanks and cesspools.  All other materials
and substances, chemicals or chemical compounds and/or industrial wastes will
not be permitted to be discharged into the public sewerage system except as
heretofore provided.
      (2)   The discharge of these wastes shall be made only at a location in
the sewage treatment plant as shall be designated on the permit by the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-1)
   (B)   Scavenger wastes will be admitted into the sewerage system only by
approval of the town and subject to payment of fees or changes fixed by the
town.  Such a fee or change shall be based upon the full capatown of each
scavenger vehicle for each discharge.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-2)
   (C)   (1)   The applicant shall be the owner of the vehicle of the vehicle
for which a permit is applied.  Any false, untruthful or misleading statements
in any application for a permit or in any paper submitted in support of the
application will invalidate the permit.
      (2)   Such a permit may be suspended or revoked at any time by the town
for willful, continued or persistent violations of these rules and regulations
or upon such other grounds as the town may deem proper.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-3)
   (D)   All equipment (trucks, tanks, pumps and hole) used in the collection
and/or transportation of scavenger wastes shall be modern equipment and in good
repair.  When more than 1 vehicle is used by an applicant, each vehicle shall
bear an identifying number.  The town shall refuse a permit to any person
utilizing equipment other than above.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-4)
   (E)   All applicants for a permit shall furnish the following information
with each application:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Volume of scavenger waste for each numbered vehicle; and
      (3)   Number of scavenger vehicles in collection service.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-5)
§ 54.07  POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The town and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.  The town or
their representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other
industries beyond that point having a direct beating on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-1)
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the town or duly authorized employees of the town, shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company,
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees.  The town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its
property by town employees and against liability claims and demands to its
property by town employees and for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging, sampling operation, except
as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in § 54.05(G).
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-2)
   (C)   The town and other duly authorized employees or the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of, but not limited to inspections, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-3)
§ 54.08  SEWER SURCHARGE RATES.
     B.O.D. A–Cost per Million Total  B–Cost per Million    C–Cost per Million
Rate 5ppm   Gallons              Solids Gallons              ph Gallons
                                 ppm
     B.O.D. A–Cost per Million Total  B–Cost per Million       C–Cost per Million
Rate 5ppm   Gallons              Solids Gallons              ph    Gallons
                                 ppm
0    0-300  $  0.00             0-500  $0.00                6.5-  $0.00
                                                             8.5
1    300-   12.00                500-   2.25                 1.0-  6.00
     500                         925                         3.0
2    500-   23.00                925-   4.50                 3.0-  4.00
     700                         1350                        5.0
3    700-   35.00                1350-  6.75                 5.0-  2.00
     900                         1775                        6.5
4    900-   46.00                1775-  9.00                 8.5-  2.00
     1,100                       2200                        10.0
5    1,100- 58.00                2200-  11.25                10.0- 4.00
     1,300                       2625                        12.0
6    1,300- 69.00                2625-  13.50                12.0- 6.00
     1,500                       3050                        14.0
7    1,500- 81.00                3050-  15.75
     1,700                       3475
8    1,700- 92.00                3475-  18.00
     1,900                       3900
9    1,900- 104.00               3900-  20.25
     2,100                       4325
10   2,100- 115.00               4325-  22.50
     2.300                       4750
11   2,300- 127.00               4750-  24.75
     2,500                       5175
12   2,500- 138.00               5175-  27.00
     2,700                       5600
13   2,700- 150.00               5600-  29.25
     2,900                       6025
14   2,900- 161.00               6025-  31.50
     3,100                       6450
15   3,100- 173.00               6450-  33.75
     3,300                       6875
Notes:
(1) The total cost of sewer service charges will be the combined total of B.O.D., Total
Solids and pH as shown above.
(2) The town will conduct a 24 hour composite sampling and analysis of the  wastewater
at least once per 12 months. This analysis will be the basis for determining the
surcharge.  The volume of waste to be used in determining the surcharge will be
obtained form the town water mater reading and/or by methods described herein.
 
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 8-1)
§ 54.09  SURCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   In §
54.08, a schedule of surcharges has been established which takes into
consideration the total cost for the treatment of wastes.  This schedule can be
amended from time to time by resolution of the governing body.  In this
schedule, a BOD5 concentration of 0 to 300 ppm, a total solids concentration of
0-500 ppm and a pH in the range of 6.5 through 8.5 units is considered to be
standard sewage waste.
      (2)   Any sewage having a concentration in excess of 300 ppm BOD5, 500ppm
total solids, or having a pH of less that 6.5 units or greater than 8.5 units
is subject to a surcharge in accordance with the schedule set forth in §
54.08.  This surcharge schedule is based on the equitable recovery of waste
treatment costs as required for the cities receiving federal assistance for the
construction of wastewater treatment facilities and is in compliance with the
regulations Title 18 C.F.R. part 601.34.
      (3)   This issuance of this surcharge schedule does not in itself permit
or does it imply that any such waste will be received by the town for
treatment.
      (4)   In each instance, the actual acceptance of the waste for treatment
is subject to review and evaluation by the town.  In some instances,
pretreatment may be required before acceptance of the waste for final treatment
be the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 9-1)
   (B)   (1)   In all cases where residential, commercial or industrial
premises or facilities are connected to the town sewage disposal system and are
not supplied water by the town, the town shall require that the water used be
measured by a water meter acceptable to the town and that sewer service changes
and sewer surcharges be assessed against that quantity and quality of sewage
flow in exactly the same manner as if the water were being supplied from the
town.
      (2)   The cost of the installation and maintenance of the water meter
will be borne exclusively by the customer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 9-2)
§ 54.10  SEWER RATES.
 Availability Per 1,000 gallons
                         Availability Per 1,000 gallons
Residential              $15.37       $9.21
Commercial               $18.43       $9.21
Prosperity Elementary    $102.36      $9.21
Miller Street Apartments $442.24      $9.21
Sunset Township Overage  $18.43       $9.21
Rikard School            $204.75      $9.21
Pineridge Apartments     $442.24      $9.21
Outside town rates are 1-1/2 times the rate listed above.
 
(Ord. passed 6-19-2018)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the town with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and if the violation continues for more than 20 days following the written
notice the town will apply to the courts for the enforcement of the regulations
set forth herein through the means of mandatory injunctions or other remedial
process.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 10-1)
CHAPTER 55:  UTILITY IMPACT FEES
Section
   
55.01   Background
§ 55.01  BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The town continues to experience exceptional growth. The cost of
providing utility services to those new areas of growth, are weighing heavily
upon the taxpayers of the town. In an effort to defray the cost of initial
utility installation, the Town Council has decided to insure that the burden of
this initial installation shall be borne by the parties requesting that service
be made available to that property.
   (B)   Therefore, it shall be the policy of the town, that utility impact
fees shall be levied upon the person requesting the service. These impact fees
shall include water and sewer tap fees, as well as the reimbursement of cost
incurred by the town to bring service to the requesting property. In the case
where utility services are not currently available to the site being developed,
then in addition to "tap fees" described above, no permit shall be allowed or
fee provided without specific approval of the town, along with agreement in
writing, describing what costs are to be paid by each party.
   (C)   The schedule of residential tap fees, as currently described in this
chapter shall be controlling with regards to individual residential utility
applications (water, sewer, electric). The schedule of impact fees for
commercial development shall be individually negotiated between Town Council
for the town and the developer.
(Ord. passed 3-20-2007)
CHAPTER 56: INTER-CONNECTION STANDARD/NET METERING
Section
   
56.01   Standard for inter-connecting small  generation with electric power
   
56.02   Scope
   
56.03   Purpose
   
56.04   Limitations
   
56.05   Conflicts
   
56.06   References
   
56.07   Definitions
   
56.08   General requirements
   
56.09   Generator, inverter and protective equipment technical requirements
   
56.10   Screens and requirements for determination of minimal impact
   
56.11   Commissioning, maintenance and inspections
   
56.12   Procedures
§ 56.01  STANDARD FOR INTER-CONNECTING SMALL  GENERATION WITH ELECTRIC POWER.
   This standard contains the requirements, in addition to applicable rates and
service regulations, for parallel interconnection of non-utility owned single
phase small generation systems which are rated at 20 kW or less for residential
customers. No interconnection available for non-residential customers.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.02  SCOPE.
   The standard applies only to “small” generators installed at existing radial
fed Electric Power System (“EPS”) distribution customer sites, with a
determination of minimal impact.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.03  PURPOSE.
   This document was developed to provide a uniform simplified standard for
inter-connecting certain small generators in the Town of Prosperity.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.04  LIMITATIONS.
   The interconnection of generators is subject to applicable Town of
Prosperity approved rates, operating policy, and service regulations in
addition to compliance with this standard.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.05  CONFLICTS.
   In case of conflict between any provision of a rate and of this standard,
the provisions of the rate shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.06  REFERENCES.
   (A)   IEEE 929 - Recommended Practice for Utility Interface of Photovoltaic
(PV) Systems, latest published edition.
   (B)   IEEE 1547 - Standard for Interconnecting Distributed Resources with
Electric Power Systems, latest published edition.
   (C)   IEEE P1547.1 - Draft: Standard Conformance Test Procedures for
Interconnecting Distributed Energy Resources with Electric Power Systems.
   (D)   IEEE P1547.2 - Draft: Application Guide for IEEE Standard 1547,
Interconnecting Distributed Resources with Electric Power Systems.
   (E)   IEEE P1547.3 - Draft: Guide for Monitoring, Information Exchange, and
Control of Distributed Resources Interconnected with Electric Power Systems.
   (F)   UL1741 - Inverters, Converts and Controllers for use in Independent
Power Systems, latest published edition.
   (G)   NFPA 70 - National Electric Code, latest published edition.
   (H)   Town of Prosperity - approved rates including, but not limited to,
rate schedules, riders, service regulations and operating policy and others as
may apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.07  DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless
context indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CLOSED TRANSITION OF LOADS. A make-before-break load transfer scheme, in
which the generator is operated in parallel with the EPS for a brief period of
time, to ensure that the load is maintained while in transition from the town
to the generator or vice versa. This transition scheme includes fast transfer
systems, generally less than 100 msec, and soft load systems where the parallel
condition is maintained for a number of seconds.
   CUSTOMER. The electric customer of record for the location where the
generation will be interconnected.
   DEPARTMENT. The Town of Prosperity is the electric utility owning and
operating the EPS.
   EPS: ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM. The electric facilities of the town.
   GENERATOR. The distributed “generation system” and equipment to be inter-
connected to the EPS.
   IMPACT SCREEN. An internal process used by the town to determine the effects
the generator will have on the town's EPS.
   ISOLATION DEVICE. A manual load-break disconnect switch or safety switch
with a clear visible indication of switch position between the EPS and the
generator. The switch must have pad lock provisions for locking in the open
position. The switch must be visible to, and accessible to town personnel. The
switch must be in close proximity, and visible from, the customer's point of
electrical inter-connection with the town's EPS. The switch must be labeled
“Generator Disconnect Switch.” The switch may isolate the generator system and
its associated load from the EPS or disconnect only the generator from the EPS.
The town shall have access to the isolation device at all times.
   MOMENTARY PARALLEL SYSTEMS. A generator utilizing only a closed transition
mode of operation.
   POINT OF COMMON COUPLING. The point in the inter-connection of a customer-
generator facility with an electric delivery system and shall have the same
meaning as in IEEE Standard 1547.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 56.08  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Service regulations and tariff/rate schedule. This standard for inter-
connecting small generation with EPS is governed by the town's general
operating policy and electric rate schedules.
   (B)   Acceptance for inter-connection.
      (1)   Each application and generator is evaluated individually and
accepted or denied for interconnection with the town's EPS. The customer is
solely responsible for ensuring the safe installation and operation of the
generator. Generators shall not be inter-connected until the requirements and
process described in this standard have been satisfied.
      (2)   The acceptance for interconnection is for the original applicant
only. Subsequent owners or occupants of a site with an inter-connected
generator must submit a new application to the town. The existing customer
assumes the responsibility of ensuring a new customer is aware the new customer
must re-apply and obtain the town's written acceptance or the equipment must be
removed or disabled to prevent future interconnection and/or operation.
   (C)   Waiving requirements. All requirements of this standard must be met
although the town may, in its sole discretion, waive all or some of the
requirements of this standard. Waivers must be issued in writing.
   (D)   Interconnect cost. The customer will bear all the cost of
interconnection on the customer's side of the point of interconnection as well
as necessary changes or upgrades to the EPS to meet all technical and
protection requirements to address any power quality, reliability or safety
issues caused by the generator operation or connection to the EPS.
   (E)   Isolating or disconnecting the generator. The town may isolate the
customer's premises and/or generator from the town's EPS when necessary in
order to construct, install, repair, replace, remove, investigate, or inspect
any of the town's equipment or part of the town's system; or if the town
determines that isolation of the customer's premises and/or generator from the
town's EPS is necessary because of emergencies, forced outages, force majeure
or compliance with prudent electrical practices. Whenever feasible, the town
shall give the customer reasonable notice of the isolation of the customer's
premises and/or generator from the town's EPS. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this standard, if at any time the town determines that either the
generator may endanger the town's personnel or other persons or property, or
the continued operation of the customer's generator may endanger the integrity
or safety of the town's electric system, the town shall have the right to
isolate the customer's premises and/or generator from the town's EPS without
notice. The town may disconnect the EPS electric service to any generator
determined to be malfunctioning, or not in compliance with this standard. The
customer must provide proof of compliance with this standard before the
electrical service will be reconnected.
   (F)   Limitation of liability. Each party's liability to the other party for
any loss, cost, claim, injury, liability, or expense, including reasonable
attorney's fees, relating to or arising from any act or omission hereunder,
shall be limited to the amount of direct damage actually incurred. In no event
shall either party be liable to the other party for any indirect, special,
incidental, consequential, or punitive damages of any kind.
   (G)   Indemnification. The customer shall at all times indemnify, defend and
save the town it officers and employees harmless from any and all liability,
damages, losses, claims, including claims and actions relating to injury or
death of any person or damage to property, including property of the town,
demand suits, recoveries, costs and expenses, court costs, attorney's fees, and
all other obligations by or to third parties, arising out of or resulting from
the customer's action or inaction or the customer's obligations hereunder, in
any manner directly or indirectly connected with, growing out of the operation
of the customer's generator, except in cases of gross negligence or intentional
wrongdoing by town.
   (H)   Access to and operation of the generator. The customer shall limit
access to and operation of the generator to qualified persons and assumes the
responsibility of maintaining control of the operation of the generator.
   (I)   Insurance. The customer shall obtain and retain, for as long as its
generator is interconnected with the town's system, liability insurance which
protects the customer from claims for bodily injury and/or property damage. For
a residential customer the minimum coverage shall be at a standard homeowner's
insurance policy with liability coverage in the amount of at least $300,000 per
occurrence. The insurance shall be primary for all purposes. The customer shall
provide certificates evidencing this coverage as required by the town.
Automatic notification to town must be established for both annual renewals and
if appropriate any termination of such insurance. The town reserves the right
to refuse to establish, or continue the inter-connection of the customer's
generator with the town's system, if such insurance is not in effect. The town
shall have the right to immediately terminate this agreement, immediately
terminate the inter-connection and require the customer to permanently
disconnect the customer's generator from the EPS.
   (J)   Generator alterations. Changes to the generator output capacity and/or
modification to the protection system required to meet this standard are
prohibited without submitting a new “Application to Inter-connect Small
Generator” and obtaining a new acceptance from the town.
   (K)   Discontinuing operation. The customer shall notify the town prior to
permanently discontinuing operation of the generator interconnected with the
town.
   (L)   Interconnection application fee. The non-refundable inter-connection
application fee covers only the application process for inter-connection of
generators and shall be for residential service customers: $100.
   (M)   Termination fee. A non-refundable termination fee will be applied in
the event that the customer terminates this agreement as follows in addition to
any costs incurred by the town for residential service customers: $100.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 56.09  GENERATOR, INVERTER AND PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. The town may elect to visit the site and verify compliance
with any requirement of these standards. The generator must be single phase
only for residential customers. Three phase generators are not covered by this
standard.
   (B)   Required standards. The customer must certify the following
requirements:
      (1)   The installation of the generator and all equipment in the system
must comply with the latest published edition of IEEE 929 and IEEE 1547 as
applicable.
      (2)   Future IEEE standards and/or recommended practices: IEEE PI547.1,
P1547.2 and P1547.3 are still proposed draft documents and still in working
groups at the time of writing this standard. After these standards are
published inter-connected generators may be required to comply with these IEEE
standards.
      (3)   The customer's inverter or inter-connection protection system must
be tested and listed for compliance with the latest published edition of
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) 1741.
      (4)   The generator must pass the anti-islanding test UL 1741.
      (5)   The customer's inverter or inter-connection protection system must
be manufactured after November 7, 2000.
      (6)   Any protection settings affecting anti-islanding performance must
not be adjusted after passing anti-islanding tests.
   (C)   Additional PV (photovoltaic) system requirements. The customer must
certify that the generator meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The installation of the generator and all equipment in the system
comply with the latest published edition of IEEE 929.
      (2)   The generator is a non-islanding type as defined in IEEE 929.
   (D)   Electrical contractors and NEC Code inspection. All installed wiring,
protection devices, cabinets and connectors, etc. must comply with the latest
published edition of the National Electric Code ("NEC") as used by the local
jurisdiction and all applicable local codes. An approved electrical inspection
by the authority having jurisdiction is required.
   (E)   Isolation device. An isolation device as defined in §
56.07 is required. The town in its sole discretion determines if the device is
suitable.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 56.10  SCREENS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR DETERMINATION OF MINIMAL IMPACT.
   Limitations of EPS facilities:
   (A)   General. The generator shall meet each of the following requirements
to qualify for inter-connection and must continue to meet each requirement
after commissioning.
   (B)   EPS capacity limitation. The maximum rated output of the generator or
total aggregate of multiple generators shall not exceed the capacity or ratings
of the EPS facilities as determined by the town.
   (C)   Secondary, service and service entrance limitation. The generator
capacity shall be less than the capacity of the EPS secondary, service and
service entrance cable connected to the point of common coupling. The town will
make this determination after reviewing the EPS installed facilities.
   (D)   Transformer loading limitation. The generator shall not have the
ability to overload the EPS transformer or any EPS transformer winding beyond
manufacturer or nameplate ratings.
   (E)   Integration with EPS grounding. The ground scheme of the generator
shall comply with IEEE 1547.
   (F)   Balance limitation. The generator shall not create a voltage imbalance
of more than 3% of the EPS transformer.
   (G)   Any changes or upgrades to EPS to accommodate the generator will be
pursuant to §
56.08(D) above.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 56.11  COMMISSIONING, MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The customer or customer's authorized representative shall perform
commissioning, and maintenance as outlined in this section for all generator
equipment. All testing shall be documented and the town shall be granted the
right to audit the documentation. The town reserves the right to require and
witness testing of the customer's generator.
      (2)   The customer's generator is subject to inspection by a town
representative at a mutually agreeable time, as the town deems necessary. The
town's inspection and/or witnessing the testing of the customer's equipment
shall not be construed as the town warranting or implying that the customer's
equipment is safe or reliable. The town shall not be liable to the customer or
others as a result of inspection and witnessing of tests of the customer's
generator or equipment.
   (B)   Commissioning. The manufacturers recommended and required
commissioning, installation and functional tests shall be completed, with
successful results, in accordance with the manufacturer's published
recommendations. Commissioning tests in IEEE 1547 shall also be completed with
successful results unless these IEEE 1547 tests are duplications of the
manufacturer tests. After obtaining the final electrical inspection, the
customer shall invite the town to the commissioning test and perform the test
at a mutually agreed date.
   (C)   Maintenance and testing. Maintenance shall be performed in accordance
with the manufacturer's published maintenance procedures. Periodic testing
shall be completed with successful results in accordance with the
manufacturer's published recommendations for periodic testing at, or before,
the recommended testing intervals. If the manufacturer does not publish
recommendations for periodic testing, suitable testing shall be performed that
assures proper protection for the EPS, at an intervalnot to exceed two years.
All test results shall be documented and available to the town for review up
request.
   (D)   Failure of test. If a generator fails any test, it shall be disabled
and the isolation device must be opened and locked until the equipment is
repaired.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 56.12  PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inter-connection request. The customer submits to the town an
"application to inter-connect small generation" accompanied with the
appropriate inter-connection application fee to a designated town contact or
department.
   (B)   Impact screens. The town accepts or rejects the application for inter-
connection after reviewing the application and performing the screens outlined
in this standard. If the application is rejected, the customer may request the
town to reconsider inter-connection outside the scope of this standard. If the
application is accepted the process will continue.
   (C)   Agreement for interconnection. After the previous items in the process
are complete, the town will provide an agreement to the customer. Once the
customer returns the executed agreement to the town, the town will execute the
agreement and return a copy to the customer. Customer shall not inter-connect
the generator to the town's EPS facilities unless an agreement between customer
and the town has been executed by both parties.
   (D)   Installation and inspections. The customer installs the generator and
the customer is responsible for obtaining an approved electrical inspection
from the local authority having jurisdiction for the generator installation.
The customer shall request the inspector to forward a copy of the approved
inspection to the town contact processing the generator interconnect request.
   (E)   EPS facilities. At the customer's expense the town will install or
alter the EPS facilities as necessary to accommodate the inter-connection.
   (F)   Commissioning test. The customer performs the required commissioning
test and forwards a confirmation letter to the town. The customer shall invite
the town to the commissioning test and perform the test at a mutually agreed
date and time if the town elects to attend.
   (G)   Completion of application/expiration process. The application for
inter-connection shall be valid for 1 year once the impact screen process is
completed.
(Ord. passed - - )
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
   
72.   PARKING RULES
   
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court
   
70.04   Operation without consent of owner
   
70.05   Obedience to police officers
§ 70.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This title may be known and cited as the “Traffic Code.”
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-1)
§ 70.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the definitions of the S.C. Code § 46:201,
are hereby adopted and made part of this code.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-2)
§ 70.03  JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The Municipal Court may try and determine criminal cases involving
violations of the provisions of this title or provisions of the South Carolina
Code of Laws relating to motor vehicles and traffic occurring within the limits
of the town when the penalty prescribed by state law of the violation does not
exceed 30 days imprisonment or $500.  The Municipal Court may have trial
jurisdiction over such criminal cases the same as magistrates.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-3)
§ 70.04  OPERATION WITHOUT CONSENT OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to use any vehicle without
the consent of the owner thereof, or to injure, interfere with or remove,
without the consent of the owner, any vehicle; provided, however, that, this
section shall not apply to police officers and to those assisting police
officers in the removal of vehicles from places where the vehicles have been
left standing or parked contrary to the provisions of this title.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-4) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.05  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-5) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Operation of vehicles generally
   
71.02   Equipment
   
71.03   Truck routes
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Truck Routes, see
Traffic Schedule I
§ 71.01  OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   All vehicles shall be operated in the town in accordance with and in
conformity with Title 46, Chapter 1 Article 2, Registration and Licensing
Generally; Article 5, License Plates and Registration Cards Generally; Article
6, Dealer’s Licenses; Chapter 2, Registration and Licensing of Uninsured Motor
Vehicles; Chapter 4, Licenses to Drive Motor Vehicles; and Chapter 7, The
Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on the Highways, of the South Carolina Code of
Laws, 1962, and each subsequent code or amendments thereto relating to the
operation of vehicles, which provisions are adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as if set out herein, except those provisions relating
solely to the state’s Highway Department and those provisions the penalty for
the violation of which exceeds a fine of $500 or imprisonment for 30 days.  Any
person violating these provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 2-1) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All requirements of S.C. Code §§ 46:612 to 46:629 are hereby adopted
by reference and made part of this chapter as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   All owners of vehicles operating within the town shall conform to the
requirements and any person so failing to conform shall be guilt of a
misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 2-2) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.03  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCK.  Any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of
property, and whose body weight, or whose combined body and load weight,
exceeds 40,000 pounds or has over 6 axles.
   (B)   (1)   Clerk/Treasurer maintains maps.  The Town Clerk/Treasurer shall
keep and maintain accurate maps setting out truck routes and streets upon which
truck traffic is permitted; the map shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk/Treasurer and shall be available to the public.
      (2)   Chief of Police maintains control.  Any truck passing though the
town without a point of destination and not using designated truck route shall
be charged with violation of this section.
      (3)   Chief of Police maintains signs.  The Chief of Police of the town
shall cause all truck routes and those streets upon which truck traffic is
prohibited to be clearly sign-posted to give notice that this section is in
effect.
   (C)   No person shall be charged with violating the provisions of this
section by reason of operating a truck upon a street wherein truck travel is
prohibited unless appropriate signs are posted on the street.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating §
71.03 shall be fined not more than $200 or sentenced to not more than 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   General restrictions; penalties; reports and notices
   
72.02   Notices and reports; enforcement generally
   
72.03   Illegally stopped vehicles; removal
§ 72.01  GENERAL RESTRICTIONS; PENALTIES; REPORTS AND NOTICES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or the
directions of a law enforcement police officer or traffic-control sign,
marking, or device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk. The penalty for violation of this restriction shall
be $25 per occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway, or so near thereto as to
block or interfere with the unobstructed use of the driveway or access to
public or private property, or to create an obstructed the view for of vehicle
operators utilizing the driveway. The penalty for violation of this restriction
shall be $25 per occurrence at owner's expense.
      (3)   Within an intersection. The penalty for violation of this
restriction shall be $25 per occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (4)   On a cross walk. The penalty for violation of this restriction
shall be $25 per occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (5)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, except as
otherwise designated by marked parking space. The penalty for violation of this
restriction shall be $25 per occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (6)   Within 50 feet of the nearest railroad track or a railroad
crossing, except as otherwise designated by marked parking space. The penalty
for violation of this restriction shall be $25 per occurrence and subject to
tow at owner's expense.
      (7)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or within a designated "fire
lane." The penalty for violation of this restriction shall be $100 per
occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (8)   At any place where traffic control devices, markings, or official
signs prohibit stopping, standing or parking, nor in excess of the time
allotted by signage. The penalty for violation of this restriction shall be $25
per occurrence and subject to tow at owner's expense.
      (9)   Alongside, or on the side of, any street or road in a manner such
that the vehicle is facing in the opposite direction of the flow of traffic.
The penalty for violation of this restriction shall be $25 per occurrence.
   (B)   It shall be a violation for any person to park any vehicle in a marked
parking space located in downtown prosperity or any designated parking spaces
alongside any public street or road within the town limits for a period of more
than 2 hours, with the exception of spaces specifically designated for
handicapped persons parking, and spaces designated by posted signage for a
different time limit. The penalty for violation of the 2 hour restriction, or
violation of any other time limitation restriction, shall be $25 per
occurrence. Additionally, at any downtown prosperity parking locations, any
vehicle left parked for more than 24 hours may be towed at owner's expense.
   (C)   It shall be a violation for any person to park an unauthorized vehicle
in a space designated for handicapped persons parking space. The penalty for
violation of this restriction shall be $500 per occurrence.
   (D)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Officers of the law shall have the right to remove vehicles by means
of towing which violate this section. Such vehicle shall not be released until
all outstanding parking violations and fines have been paid to the town.
   (F)   The provisions contained within this section do not apply to law
enforcement, fire or emergency vehicles.
   (G)   The provisions contained within do not apply to vehicles utilized for
non-profit activities. This exemption does not apply to personally owned
vehicles regardless of the intended use.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-1) (Am. Ord. passed 4-19-2016; Am. Ord.
2018.1120, passed 12-18-2018)  Penalty, see §
10.99
State Law reference:
   Local authority to regulate standing or parking of vehicles, S.C. Code 1976,
§ 56-5-710(1); municipalities with marked parking spaces must designate spaces
for disabled persons, S.C. Code 1976, § 56-3-1965.
§ 72.02  NOTICES AND REPORTS; ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be a the duty of a police officers of the town to report:
      (1)   Any vehicle found to be in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   The state license number and the state of registration of such
vehicle; and
      (3)   Any other facts, a or knowledge of which is necessary for a
thorough understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
   (B)   The law enforcement officer shall attach to the vehicle a notice
informing the owner that such vehicle is parked in violation of town
ordinances, informing the owner of the penalty for said violation, and
providing payment procedures. Any person or vehicle owner who violates or fails
to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be charged for each
such violation by the applicable fee/penalty set forth herein. Violators will
have 15 days from the date of such notice to pay the fee or submit a written
request contesting the facts of the violation. Contested violations will be
scheduled for an administrative hearing regarding the matter. Failure to pay
the fee within the allotted 15 days will result in a fee increase of 100% of
the original amount. Fees not paid within 45 days will result in the vehicle
being prohibited from parking in any town ordinance regulated parking space.
Prohibited vehicles will be subject to tow at the owner's expense. Prohibited
vehicles may reestablish parking privileges after all parking fees have been
paid. Vehicles towed for violations of this parking ordinance will be at the
owner's expense.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2016)
§ 72.03  ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the officer is hereby
authorized to move the vehicle or require the driver or other person in charge
of the vehicle to move the same to a position off of the paved or improved or
main-traveled part of the highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge or causeway or in any tunnel where the vehicle constitutes as
obstruction to traffic, the officer if hereby authorized to provide for the
removal of the vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-4)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Truck routes
SCHEDULE I.  TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   Trucks passing through the environs of the town with no destination
point within the town shall use the designated truck route as established.  The
highways/streets that constitute the designated route are as set out in the
table below.
   (B)   All other streets within the town limits are closed to truck traffic
except any truck making deliveries to destinations inside the town limits are
allowed to travel the most direct route to/from their destination.
 
Locations
Highway 76 (Wheeler Ave.)
Highway 391 (Main Street, Broad Street and McNeary Street)
Highway 244 (Church Street)
Highway 42 (Brown Street)
Highway 26 (Macedonia Church Road)
 
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5-2) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   CEMETERIES
   
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
92.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
   
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
94.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90:  CEMETERIES
Section
   
90.01   Damaging shrubbery or other things
   
90.02   Defacing monuments in cemetery
   
90.03   Establishment of cemeteries prohibited; exceptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DAMAGING SHRUBBERY OR OTHER THINGS.
   Any person who shall damage or deface the ornamental shrubbery or any other
thing put, placed or growing on any lot in any cemetery in the town by plucking
flowers or otherwise, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-1) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.02  DEFACING MONUMENTS IN CEMETERY.
   Any person damaging or defacing a tombstone or monument in any cemetery in
the town, by shooting the same or otherwise, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-2) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.03  ESTABLISHMENT OF CEMETERIES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall establish or use within the town any place for the burial of
the dead without permission of the Town Council.  This prohibition shall not
extend to burial ground established in the town as of the effective date of
this code, within the boundaries as established as of such date for that
purpose.
(1982 Code, Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-3) 
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and
anyone convicted of violating any provisions thereof shall be punished by the
court, as limited by state statutes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-4)
CHAPTER 91:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Committee
   
91.01   Duties
Maintenance
   
91.15   Working on streets
   
91.16   Consent of Town Council for street work
   
91.17   Palings and fences
Unlawful Conduct
   
91.30   Damaging pavement and surfaces
   
91.31   Bicycles and roller skates on sidewalks
   
91.32   Obstruction of public right-of-way
   
91.33   Obstruction by a congregation of persons
   
91.34   Street signs, posts or street numbers; defacement, removal and the like
   
91.35   Horses on sidewalk prohibited
   
91.36   Reckless riding and driving of horses
 
   
91.99   Penalty
STREET COMMITTEE
§ 91.01  DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Committee on Streets to visit as often as
possible all streets, lanes, alleys, bridges and all places that require the
attention of the town authorities, and to report to the Town Council all
grievances and nuisances which may come under their observation; and, likewise,
all defects in drains, streets, sidewalks or bridges and the like, which in
their judgement requires repairs, and to see that all employees in their
departments are discharging their duties faithfully, and that all streets,
drains, gullies and the like are kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-2)
MAINTENANCE
§ 91.15  WORKING ON STREETS.
   The Committee on Streets shall appoint such a work force of persons and
vehicles, and at such rates of pay, as may be necessary for the work on the
streets of the town.  The compensation allowed to the different employees in
the street department shall be paid by the Clerk/Treasurer.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-11)
§ 91.16  CONSENT OF TOWN COUNCIL FOR STREET WORK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, cut down or reduce the
surface or level of any street, lane or alley of the town before he or she
shall have obtained the consent of the Town Council.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-12) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.17  PALINGS AND FENCES.
   (A)   All owners and occupants of lots in the town shall be required to keep
all palings and fences along the sidewalks in the repair that the palings and
fences shall not lean over or across on in any way obstruct the sidewalks  of
the town.
   (B)   Any owner or occupant of a lot who shall refuse or neglect to repair
or remove any palings or fences obstructing or leaning over or across any
sidewalk, after being notified that the palings or fences are in need of repair
or removal, shall be liable to a fine.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-13)
UNLAWFUL CONDUCT
§ 91.30  DAMAGING PAVEMENT AND SURFACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage in any way any street,
sidewalk or pavement on any street or sidewalk, or to disfigure, deface, mar,
hurt, injure, write or paint on any pavement of any street or sidewalk in the
town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-21) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.31  BICYCLES AND ROLLER SKATES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle or skate on roller
skates on any sidewalks within the corporate limits of the town between Brown
Street and the C.N. & L. Railway crossing.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-22) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.32  OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any street, sidewalk or bridge, culvert,
drain or ditch belonging thereto, or any part thereof, in the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-23) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.33  OBSTRUCTION BY A CONGREGATION OF PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets of the town so
as to obstruct the streets and prevent the passage of persons or vehicles.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-24) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.34  STREET SIGNS, POSTS OR STREET NUMBERS;  DEFACEMENT, REMOVAL AND THE
LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to deface, remove or otherwise alter any
public street signs, posts or street numbers within the corporate limits of the
town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-25) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.35  HORSES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive, or lead a horse upon any
of the sidewalks of the town or in any way impede the free use of sidewalks by
pedestrian traffic without authorization.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36  RECKLESS RIDING AND DRIVING OF HORSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to run, drive, or ride any horse in a
reckless, disorderly, or careless manner through or over any of the streets or
private property in the town.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and
anyone convicted of violation any provisions thereof shall be punished at the
discretion of the court as limited by state statutes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-1)
CHAPTER 92:  ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Cruelty to animals
   
92.03   Fighting animals or fowl
   
92.04   Animals running at large; control of animals generally
   
92.05   Manner of keeping and maintaining animals generally
   
92.06   Keeping livestock and poultry generally
   
92.07   Keeping of domestic chickens
   
92.08   Additional enforcement provisions as to domestic chickens
   
92.09   Hunting and killing animals and fowl
   
92.10   Dead animals
   92.11   Keeping of horses and ponies
   92.12   Additional enforcement provisions as to horses and ponies
Dogs
   
92.20   Police authority when rabies suspected
   
92.21   Failure to comply with police orders
   
92.22   Killing, stealing, maiming and the like
   
92.23   Impoundment of strays
   
92.24   Running at large
   
92.25   Bitches in heat or season
   
92.26   Public nuisances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMALS.  All brute creatures and domestic pets.
   DOG.  All members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC CHICKENS. Members of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus
(domestic chickens), not including guinea fowl, peafowl, swans, ducks,
pheasants, waterfowl, exotics, and game birds.
   FOWL.  All manner and types of birds or poultry whether wild or
domesticated.
   HORSES. A large hoofed mammal (Equus caballus) having a short coat, a long
mane, and a long tail, domesticated since ancient times and used for riding and
for drawing or carrying loads.
   PONIES. A horse of a small breed, especially one whose height at the withers
is below 14 hands 2 inches (58 inches).
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-1)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2014; Am. Ord.
passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.02  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town limits to beat cruelly or
otherwise cruelly maltreat any dumb animal or to kill wantonly, wound, maim,
poison or disfigure any animal, or to over-drive, over-ride or over-load or
unnecessarily confine or oppress the same; or to fail in any way to provide the
same with proper food, drink or shelter, or to drive, to work, or use the same
when the animal is maimed, sick, wounded or otherwise unfit for labor, or to
carry, or cause to be carried, hauled or forced along in a cruel and inhuman
manner, or to leave any animal tied or confined anywhere, day or night, without
proper feeding, watering or caring for same.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-2) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03  FIGHTING ANIMALS OR FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or be present at any event
wherein animals or fowl are pitted against each other in fights such as “dog
fights” or “cock fights.”
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-3)
§ 92.04  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; CONTROL OF ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having charge, care, ownership or
control of any animal to let the same run at large and beyond his or her
control or the limits of his or her lot or property. All animals on public
property or town property shall be secured by leash or tether to a person,
unless otherwise determined by the Town Council.
   (B)   All animals which are found in violation of this section or otherwise
unlawfully running at large within the town may be taken into custody and
impounded. All animals impounded shall be given proper care and treatment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-4)  (Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2014)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 92.05  MANNER OF KEEPING AND MAINTAINING ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   All animals and fowl shall be kept and maintained in such a manner as not to
injure or disturb the property, peace, comfort, health, safety or general
welfare of any person within the town limits.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-5)
§ 92.06  KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain within
the town any livestock or poultry, or any other animal or fowl, except dogs,
cats, domestic chickens, horse, pony and other domestic animals and fowl
commonly kept as household pets.
   (B)   This section is effective October 19, 1999, and any property owner
keeping livestock or fowl as of this date will be given a grandfathered land
use allowing for livestock and/or fowl until the time the land use changes.
   (C)   Property owners will have 30 days from the date of the section to
record their livestock land use with the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-6)  (Am. Ord. 99-012, passed 12-21-1999; Am.
Ord. passed 5-20-2014; Am. Ord. passed 3-17-2015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  KEEPING OF DOMESTIC CHICKENS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the town code, and as provided in
this section, the keeping of domestic chickens (excluding roosters) within the
town is permitted under the following conditions and with the following
limitations:
   (A)   The keeping of domestic chickens (excluding roosters) is permitted
only as an accessory use for a single family detached house in a residential
zoning district with a minimum lot size of 21,780 square feet. No roosters
(mature male domestic chickens) shall be permitted within the town limits.
   (B)   No more than a total of 6 domestic chickens may be kept or maintained
on a single premises. This section is effective June 1, 2014. Any property
owner owning or harboring more than 6 chickens as of the effective date must
register his or her chickens within 45 days of the effective date to be
considered exempt from this limitation.
   (C)   No person shall allow any chickens to roam free for any reason.
Chickens found at large shall be impounded.
   (D)   A coop will be considered as an accessory structure. Coops must be
located in the rear yard and at least seven-and-a-half feet from all property
lines. If any portion of the coop is located within 25 feet of a neighbor's
dwelling, said coop must be screened from side or rear lot lines with shrubbery
or a privacy fence.
   (E)   Coops must be constructed of sturdy materials, contain runs, and be
well-maintained to prevent odor and to discourage fly accumulation. Coops must
have fencing to prevent chickens from leaving the coop area and be constructed
in a manner to deter predators. Coops shall be 6 sided (4 sides, a bottom, and
a top). Coops shall contain at least 2 square feet in bottom surface area per
chicken.
   (F)   Slaughter is not allowed on the premises.
   (G)   Chickens shall not be kept or used for commercial purposes.
   (H)   Inspection of the property and coop by a Town Police Officer is
required prior to a permit being issued.
   (I)   A permit to keep chickens on designated property is required. Permits
shall be issued by Town Administration. The permit cost is $20. A permit may be
revoked by the Police Chief or his/her designee upon the second conviction in
municipal court in a permit year for a violation of this section on the
permitted property. A permit may be denied on the ground that a previous permit
for the applicant or for a related or affiliated person residing on the
property has been revoked. A person whose permit is revoked or denied may
appeal to the Town Administrator whose decision, after notice and hearing,
shall constitute the final administrative action of the city.
   (J)   Town Police Officers may conduct inspection of all permitted
properties at any time.
   (K)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Town Code, the penalty for
a first conviction in municipal court for a violation of this section shall be
a fine of $50. The penalty for all subsequent convictions in municipal court
for violations of this section shall be a fine of $100 per violation.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2014)
§ 92.08  ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS AS TO DOMESTIC CHICKENS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the impoundment
or hold period for a domestic chicken is not required to exceed 3 days. An
impounded domestic chicken may be redeemed by the owner within the hold period
upon payment of all fees incurred as a result of the impoundment. After the
specified hold period, the domestic chicken shall become the property of the
town and may be disposed of at the discretion of the Police Chief or his/her
designee.
   (B)   Medical care will not be provided to any injured or sick domestic
chicken, and any domestic chicken determined to be unhealthy may be euthanized.
(Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2014)
§ 92.09  HUNTING AND KILLING ANIMALS AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to shoot any animals or
fowl within the town limits except when animal or fowl present an imminent
threat of bodily harm to any person or damage to property including domestic
pets.  If there exists an intrusion or congregation of animals or fowl in a
particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or
property in the opinion of the proper health authorities and the local police,
then in such event, the animals or fowl may be disposed of according to the
instructions and under the direction of the authorities.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10  DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any animal dead from natural or
other causes to remain on any premises in the town belonging to him or her or
under his or her control for a period longer than 12 hours.  Animals killed by
automobiles or dying from natural or other causes on public property shall be
disposed of within 12 hours by the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11  KEEPING OF HORSES AND PONIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of the town code, and as provided in
this section, the keeping of horses and ponies within the town is permitted
under the following conditions and with the following limitations:
   (A)   The keeping of horses and/or ponies is permitted only as a conditional
use for a single family detached house in a residential zoning district (R-10)
with a minimum lot size of 5 acres. No mules or donkeys shall be permitted
within the town limits.
   (B)   No more than 1 horse or pony per 2 acres of pastured land may be kept
or maintained on a single premises. Horse(s) and ponies must be occupant owned.
This section is effective March 17, 2015. Any property owner owning or
harboring more than 1 horse or pony per 2 acres of pastured land as of the
effective date must register his or her horse or pony within 45 days of the
effective date to be considered exempt from this limitation.
   (C)   No person shall allow horse(s) or ponies to roam free for any reason.
Horses and/or ponies must be kept in fenced in areas/corrals located in the
rear yard and containing at least 1,200 square feet of area per horse or pony
kept therein. Horses and/or ponies found at large shall be impounded.
   (D)   Space and/or shelter shall be provided where horses and/or ponies are
kept or fed and shall be permitted through Newberry County Zoning Department
based on Prosperity Zoning Ordinance setbacks to determine placement from
property lines and roads/streets. A barn will be considered as an accessory
structure. Barns must be located in the rear yard and permitted based on the
Town of Prosperity zoning ordinance for the property zone.
   (E)   The town provides specific regulations regarding the keeping of
animals: health nuisances due to a presence of flies, odors, dust or
accumulation of manure are prohibited. Manure is to be removed at least twice
each week. A premises upon which a horse is kept is expressly required to be
sanitary and is subject to inspection. Pastures/corrals must have fencing to
prevent horses from leaving the pastured area.
   (F)   Horses and/or ponies shall not be kept or used for commercial
purposes.
   (G)   Inspection of the property and barn by a Town Police Officer is
required prior to a permit being issued.
   (H)   A permit to keep horses and/or ponies on designated property is
required. Permits shall be issued by Town Administration. The permit cost is
$100 (one time cost). A permit may be revoked by the Police Chief or his/her
designee upon the second conviction in municipal court in a permit year for a
violation of this section on the permitted property. A permit may be denied on
the ground that a previous permit for the applicant or for a related or
affiliated person residing on the property has been revoked. A person whose
permit is revoked or denied may appeal to the Town Administrator whose
decision, after notice and hearing, shall constitute the final administrative
action of the city.
   (I)   Town Police Officers may conduct inspection of all permitted
properties at any time.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Town Code, the penalty for
a first conviction in municipal court for a violation of this section shall be
a fine of $50. The penalty for all subsequent convictions in municipal court
for violations of this section shall be a fine of $100 per violation.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.12  ADDITIONAL ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS AS TO HORSES AND PONIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the impoundment
or hold period for a horse is not required to exceed 3 days. An impounded horse
may be redeemed by the owner within the hold period upon payment of all fees
incurred as a result of the impoundment. After the specified hold period, the
horse shall become the property of the town and may be disposed of at the
discretion of the Police Chief or his/her designee.
   (B)   Medical care will not be provided to any injured or sick horse and/ or
ponies, and any horse and/or ponies determined to be unhealthy may be
euthanized.
(Ord. passed 3-17-2015)
DOGS
§ 92.20  POLICE AUTHORITY WHEN RABIES SUSPECTED.
   Whenever a case or suspected case of rabies has occurred in the town, the
Police Department shall have the power to take preventative measures to prevent
the spread of the disease.  The Police Department shall exercise this power
subject to state law governing the duties of the county’s Health Department in
like situations.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-1)
§ 92.21  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH POLICE ORDERS.
   In the event any owner or keeper of any dog or domestic pet shall knowingly
fail or refuse to comply with the order of the Police Department duly given
under the authority of §
92.20, it shall be the prerogative of the Police Department to seize the animal
and take whatever action it deems appropriate and which is consistent with the
state law governing the duties of the county’s Health Department in like
situations.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-2)
§ 92.22  KILLING, STEALING, MAIMING AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who shall a dog or wrongfully kill, maim, entice or carry away
any such dog or pet shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-3) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.23  IMPOUNDMENT OF STRAYS.
   The Police Department is charged with the duty of impounding all strays. 
The dogs will be held in the county animal shelter under the rules governing
the impoundment facility operations.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-4)
§ 92.24  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any dog owned by him or
her to run at large so as to cause any damage to any person or property within
the town.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person, either as custodian or owner
to negligently permit or allow a dog to invade or trespass upon the premises of
any person other than the owner or custodian, unless it be with permission of
the person having control of the premises.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-6) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.25  BITCHES IN HEAT OR SEASON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper to allow any bitch,
inoculated or un-inoculated, while in heat or season, belonging to him or her
or in his or her possession, to run at large in the town, or off the premises
of the owner or keeper thereof.
   (B)   After  notification by police that such a situation exists and without
remedial action by the owner or keeper or the bitch, the Police Department may
take action as deemed appropriate.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-7) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.26  PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   No person shall keep or have within the town a dog the habitually barks or
howls in such a manner or to such an extent that it is a public nuisance. 
Also, it is unlawful for any person to keep or within the town an dog that
habitually re repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks or barks at pedestrians,
barks at pedestrians, bicyclists or vehicles.
(1982 Code, Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-8) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   False alarms
   
93.03   Fire hydrants
   
93.04   Riding or driving over fire hose
   
93.05   Stopping vehicles on streets
Fire Prevention
   
93.15   Fire Prevention Code
   
93.16   Fire limits
   
93.17   Enforcement of Code
Emergency Vehicle Operation
   
93.30   Obstructing or riding on emergency vehicles
   
93.31   Following fire fighting equipment
   
93.32   Operation of authorized emergency vehicles
   
93.33   Signals
   
93.34   Duty of driver
   
93.35   Sirens
Fire Inspections
   
93.50   Inspectors; fire investigations
   
93.51   Investigation reports
   
93.52   Investigation fees
   
93.53   Criminal carelessness
   
93.54   Failure to appoint inspectors
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Department
or Chief of Police of an incorporated municipality.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is self- propelled.
   VEHICLE.  Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon the highway except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-1)
§ 93.02  FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the town to give, or aid or abet
in the giving of a false fire alarm by any means whatsoever.  In the case of
use of a fire or police alarm box for the false alarm, the penalties will be
governed by the S.C. Code § 16:560.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-3) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.03  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except those duly authorized, to open or
tamper with the fire hydrants of the town; provided, however, that,
firefighters may open and use fire hydrants in case of fire, or at any other
time for the purposes of wishing engines and testing hose or for training
themselves in the use of the same.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-4) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04  RIDING OR DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons to ride or drive over any fire hose of
the Fire Department, without the consent of the Fire Department official in
command.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-5) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05  STOPPING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   Upon the sounding of the fire alarm within the town, it shall be the duty of
all persons traveling upon the public streets or roadways of the town in any
vehicle, or by any means whatsoever to immediately go to the side of the street
or roadway and stop and remain stopped for a period of 10 minutes; provided
that, this chapter shall not apply to members of the Fire Department.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-6)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.15  FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Council, for the purpose of providing for
fire prevention in connection with hazardous materials and processes, that
certain code known as the “Fire Prevention Code, Abbreviated Edition,”
recommended by the National Board of Fire Underwriters, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, of which not less than 3 copies
have been and now are filed in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer, and the same
are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein,
and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the town limits.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-1)
§ 93.16  FIRE LIMITS.
   Fire limits are hereby established in the town covering the following areas:
All points within 200 feet of Main Street, between Brown Street and Boyd
Street; and, also, all points within 200 feet of the Pubic Square.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-2)
§ 93.17  ENFORCEMENT OF CODE.
   (A)   Repair of buildings within fire limits.  All repairs or additions to
any building or structure now standing within the fire limits shall be with
brick, stone or cement, and all repairs to the roof of any building or
structure within the fire limits shall be with slate, tin, metal, zinc or
gravel, or some other non- flammable material; provided, however, that, if the
building or structure to be repaired is 200 feet, or more, from Main Street,
between Brown and Boyd Streets, and 200 feet, or more from the Public Square,
any non-flammable material may be used.
   (B)   New constructions within fire limits.  All buildings or structures
hereafter erected within the fire limits shall be built of brick, stone or
cement, and covered with slate, tin, metal, zinc, gravel or some other non-
flammable material; provided, however, that, the building or structure to be
erected is 200 feet, or more, from Main Street, between Brown and Boyd  Street,
and 200 feet, or more, from Public Square, any non-flammable material may be
used.  It shall be unlawful for any building to be erected within the fire
limits aforesaid, or any other building to be erected within the fire limits
aforesaid, or any other buildings not in said fire limits to be altered or
repaired, until plans and specifications for the building or repairs first
shall have been submitted to and approved by the Town Council, or their
designated representative. And it shall be a violation of this chapter to vary
or depart from the plans and specifications so approved by the Council or
representative.
   (C)   Procedure for defective or illegal construction.  Whenever the
inspector finds any defects in any building or finds that the building is not
being constructed or has not been constructed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter or that an old building, because of its condition, is dangerous
and likely to cause fire, he or she shall notify the owner of the building or
the defects or of the failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter and
the owner or builder shall immediately remedy the defect and make the building
comply with the provisions of this chapter. The owner or builder may appeal
from the decision for the inspector to the Town Council.
   (D)   Notice to repair unsafe buildings.  To every building which shall
appear to the inspector to be dangerous to life or limb or, because of its
liability to fire, bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective
construction, decay or other cause, shall be held to be unsafe, the inspector
shall affix a notice or the dangerous character of the structure at a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building and shall give immediate
notice to the owner or agent, fixing a reasonable time under the circumstances
for the correction of the condition.
   (E)   Failure to correct defects.
      (1)   New construction.  If the owner or builder erecting any new
building, upon notice from the inspector, shall fail or refuse to comply with
the terms of the notice by correcting the defects pointed out in such notice so
as to make the building comply with the law as regards new buildings, he or she
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $50.  Every
20 days during which any defect in the building is willfully allowed to remain,
after notice from the inspector, shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
      (2)   Established buildings.  If the owner of any building which has been
condemned as unsafe and dangerous by local inspector, after being  notified by
the inspector in writing of the unsafe and dangerous character of the building,
shall permit it to stand or continue in that condition, he or she shall forfeit
and pay a fine of not less than $5 or more than $25 for each day the building
continues in such condition after the notice.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-3)
EMERGENCY VEHICLE OPERATION
§ 93.30  OBSTRUCTING OR RIDING ON EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any way or to obstruct
in any manner the running, operating or driving of any fire truck or any motor
vehicle conveying firefighter, fire apparatus or policemen to a fire in the
town.  It shall also be unlawful for any person to ride or attempt to ride on
the fire truck, unless the person if a firefighter, employee of the Fire
Department or a police officer or is invited to ride on the fire truck by an
officer of the Fire Department or the duly authorized driver of the fire truck.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-1) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.31  FOLLOWING FIRE FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   The driver of any vehicle, other than 1 on official business, shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-2)
§ 93.32  OPERATION OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized vehicle, when responding to an emergency
call, when in pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law or when
responding to, but not upon returning form, a fire alarm, may exercise the
privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
   (B)   The driver may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-3)
§ 93.33  SIGNALS.
   The exemptions granted in §
93.32 to an authorized emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of
any such vehicle while in motion sounds an audible signal by bell, siren or
exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and when the vehicle is equipped
with at least 1 lighted lamp displaying a red light visible under normal
atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle,
except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need
not be equipped with or display a red light visible form in front of the
vehicle.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-4)
§ 93.34  DUTY OF DRIVER.
   The provisions of §§
93.32 and
93.33 shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall the
provision protect the driver from the consequences of his or her reckless
disregard for the safety of others.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-5)
§ 93.35  SIRENS.
   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren, whistle or
bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance
of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by the Department, but the
siren shall not be used except when the vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law, in which latter event the driver of the vehicle shall sound the
siren when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach
thereof.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-6)
FIRE INSPECTIONS
§ 93.50  INSPECTORS; FIRE INVESTIGATIONS.
   The inspector of buildings shall hold an inquiry into the origin of every
fire occurring within the limits of the town.  The inspector of buildings may
subpoena witnesses as may magistrates of the state.  The Mayor, Chief of the
Fire Department or other municipal officer may be ex officio inspector of
buildings.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-1)
§ 93.51  INVESTIGATION REPORTS.
   After making a complete inquiry upon the fire, and the Inspector of
Buildings shall make a report in writing to the Chief Insurance Commissioner
upon blanks to be furnished by the Commissioner, showing how, in his or her
opinion, the fire originated.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-2)
§ 93.52  INVESTIGATION FEES.
   An Inspector of Buildings shall be entitled to a fee of $3 for making any
such inquiry, the fee to be taxed against the person owning the property burned
if the fire was caused by faulty construction or negligence of the owner; but
in the case the Inspector shall conclude that the fire was due to lack of
proper care on the part of the occupant of the house in which the fire
occurred, the fee shall be paid by the occupant, except that, upon affidavit
made that the occupant is in indigent circumstances and is unable to pay the
fee, it shall be paid by the town within the limits of which the fire occurred,
or if it shall have been without the limits of the town, the fee shall be paid
by the Chief Insurance Commissioner out of funds available for this purpose.
And when the fire originated form accidental causes the fee shall be paid by
Chief Insurance Commissioner out of funds available for this purpose.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-3)
§ 93.53  CRIMINAL CARELESSNESS.
   If the officer shall consider that the fire be due to criminal carelessness,
the person responsible for it shall be indicted before a magistrate for a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction of the same, may be fined in a sum not
exceeding $50 or imprisoned for not more that 10 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-4)
§ 93.54  FAILURE TO APPOINT INSPECTORS.
   If the Town Council shall fail or refuse to appoint an officer to make the
investigation required, the Chief Insurance Commissioner shall make such
appointment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-5)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be a
misdemeanor, and anyone convicted of violating any provisions thereof shall be
punished by the court as limited be state statutes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-2)
   (B)   An officer so appointed who, after accepting such appointment, shall
fail to carry out the provisions of §§
93.50 and
93.51 shall be liable to a penalty of $25, recoverable before a magistrate, and
to dismissal from office.  The Chief Insurance Commissioner shall enforce the
provisions of §§
93.50et seq.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-6)
CHAPTER 94:  FIREWORKS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions and restrictions
   
94.02   Use of fireworks
   
94.03   Storage of fireworks
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful and permissible fireworks.  It shall be unlawful for persons
to possess, sell, offer for sale, store, transport or use, within the town any
fireworks other than the permissible fireworks herein enumerated.  The
permissible fireworks consist of ICC Class C. “Common Fireworks” only, in the
regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission for the transportation of
explosives and other dangerous articles, and shall include the following:
      (1)   Roman candles whose total pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed
20 grams each in weight;
      (2)   Bottle type rockets whose pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed
20 grams each in weight;
      (3)   Cylindrical fountains whose total pyrotechnic composition shall not
exceed 75 grams each in weight  and whose inside diameter shall not exceed 3/
4 inches;
      (4)   Cone fountains whose total pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed
50 grams each in weight;
      (5)   Wheels whose total pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed 60
grams in weight, for each driver unit, but there may be any number of drivers
on only 1 wheel and the inside bore of driver tubes shall not be over 1/2 inch;
      (6)   Illumination torches and colored fire in any form whose total
pyrotechnic composition shall not exceed 100 grams each in weight.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-1)
   (B)   Exclusion of toy caps.  The term “fireworks” shall not include toy
paper pistol caps which contain less than twenty-five hundredth grains of
explosive compounds, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns of other devices using
paper caps and the sale and use of these items shall be permitted at all times.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-2)
   (C)   Exception to this chapter.  Nothing in this chapter shall apply:
      (1)   To the shipping, sale, possession and use of fireworks for public
displays; and such items of fireworks which are to be used for public displays
only and which are otherwise prohibited for sale and use within the state shall
include display shells designed to be fired mortars, and display set pieces for
fireworks classified by the regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission
as “Class B Special Fireworks” and shall not include such items of commercial
fireworks as Cherry Bombs, Tubular Salutes, Repeating Bombs, Aerial Bombs and
Torpedoes;
      (2)   To the manufacture, storage, sale or use of signals necessary for
the safe operation of railroad or other public or private transportation;
      (3)   To illuminating devices for photographic use;
      (4)   To a military or naval forces of the State or United States;
      (5)   To peace officers; and
      (6)   To the sale or use of blank cartridges for ceremonial, theatrical
or athletic events nor as applied to the transportation or use of fireworks
solely for agricultural purposes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-3)
§ 94.02  USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to hold a public display of fireworks shall first
secure from the Town Council a written permit to hold the display at least 10
days prior to the date of the display.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To offer for sale or to sell permissible fireworks to children
under the age of 14 years unless accompanied by a parent;
      (2)   To explode or ignite fireworks within 600 feet of any church,
hospital, asylum or public school;
      (3)   To explode or ignite fireworks within 75 feet of where fireworks
are stored, sold or offered for sale;
      (4)   To ignite or discharge any permissible fireworks within or throw
the same from any motor vehicle; and
      (5)   To place or throw any ignited fireworks into or at any motor
vehicle.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-2)
   (C)   No permissible articles of common fireworks enumerated herein shall be
sold, offered for sale, possessed, stored or used, in the town unless it shall
be properly named to conform to the nomenclature hereof and unless it is
certified as “Common Fireworks” on all shipping cases and by imprinting on the
article to be of sufficient size and so positioned as to be readily recognized
by law enforcement authorities and the general public.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-3)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.03  STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   All retailers are forbidden to expose fireworks where the sun
shines through glass on the merchandise display, except where the fireworks are
in the original packages, and all fireworks kept for sale on front counters
must remain in original packages, except where an attendant is on constant duty
at all times at counters where the fireworks are on display; provided, however,
that, fireworks in open stock may be kept in show cases or counters out of the
reach of the public without an attendant being on duty.
      (2)   Signs reading “FIREWORKS FOR SALE - NO SMOKING ALLOWED” shall be
displayed in the section of the store set aside for sale of fireworks.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-1)
   (B)   (1)   Fireworks to be sold at wholesale shall be stored in a room set
aside for the storage of fireworks only.  Over the entrance to this room shall
be posted a sign reading, “FIREWORKS - NO SMOKING - KEEP OPEN FLAMES AWAY.”
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a licensed wholesale
distributor from storing for sale where legal all Class “B” fireworks used for
display or agricultural purposes after first obtaining a license thereof from
the South Carolina Tax Commission.
      (3)   The cost of the license will be $750.
      (4)   The fireworks shall be stored in an appropriate building and a
record of purchases and sales shall be kept for inspection by the Tax
Commission.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-2)
   (C)   Fireworks shall not be sold or kept for sale in a place of business
where paint, oil, varnishes, turpentine or gasoline or other flammable
substances are kept in unbroken containers, unless in a separate and distinct
section or department of the store.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-3)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilt of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$100 or imprisoned for more than 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 4, Art. III, § 4)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   
111.   PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
   
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
113.   SMOKING
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   License tax
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Delinquent license taxes, partial payment
   
110.12   Notices
   
110.13   Denial of license
   
110.14   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.15   Appeals to Council
   
110.16   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
110.17   Confidentiality
   
110.18   Violations
   
110.19   Classification and rates
   
Appendix A:   Rate Schedule
   
Appendix B:   Class 8 Rates
   
Appendix C:   Business License Class Schedule by NAICS Code
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any calling, business,
occupation or profession, in whole or in part, within the limits of the Town of
Prosperity, South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for the
privilege of doing business and obtain a business license as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meaning ascribed herein:
   BUSINESS. A calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the
object of gain, benefit or advantage, either directly or indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from Federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. section
501(c)(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose which does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer,
officer, director, trustee or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by major groups subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued, for one calendar year collected or to be collected from business done
within the municipality, excepting therefrom income earned outside of the
municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to some other
municipality or a county and fully reported to the municipality. Gross income
for agents means gross commissions received or retained, unless otherwise
specified. Gross income for insurance companies means gross premiums written.
Gross income for business license tax purposes shall not include taxes
collected for a governmental entity, escrow funds, or funds which are the
property of a third party. The value of bartered goods or trade-in merchandise
shall be included in gross income. The gross income for business license
purposes may be verified by inspection of returns and reports filed with the
Internal Revenue Service, the South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South
Carolina Department of Insurance, or other government agency.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Prosperity, South Carolina.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, LLP, LLC, cooperative non-profit
membership, corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination
acting as a unit, in the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having
charge or control of a business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.03  PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license levied by this chapter is for the purpose of providing
such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto and for the
purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege tax. Each
license shall be issued for one calendar year ending December 31. The
provisions of this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from
year to year as amended by the Council.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.04  LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   The required license tax shall be paid for each business subject
hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the
fifteenth day of April in each year, except for those businesses in Rate Class
8 for which a different due date is specified.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the license tax shall
be computed on the combined gross income for the classification requiring the
highest rate. A license tax based on gross income shall be computed on the
gross income for the preceding calendar or fiscal year, and on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than 1 year. The tax for a new business shall be computed on the estimated
probable gross income stated in the license application for the balance of the
license year. The initial tax for an annexed business shall be prorated for the
number of months remaining in the license year. No refund shall be made for a
business that is discontinued.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.05  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year; provided, a new business shall be required to have a
business license prior to operation within the municipality. A license for a
bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of the individual who has been
issued a state alcohol, beer or wine permit or license and will have actual
control and management of the business.
   (B)   Application shall be on a form provided by the license official which
shall contain the social security number and/or the Federal employer's
identification number, the business name as reported on the South Carolina
income tax return, and all information about the applicant and the licensee and
the business deemed appropriate to carry out the purpose of this chapter by the
license official. Applicants may be required to submit copies of portions of
state and Federal income tax returns reflecting gross income figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported, or
estimated for a new business, without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.06  DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or a county and fully reported to the municipality,
taxes collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included
for computation of the tax pursuant to state or Federal law. The applicant
shall have the burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory
records and proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the ordinance by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality,
unless exempted by state or Federal law. The license official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) for the
United States published by the Office of Management and Budget. No person shall
be exempt from this chapter by reason of the payment of any other tax, unless
exempted by state law, and no person shall be relieved of liability for payment
of any other tax or fee by reason of application of this ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business
license tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this
section. A charitable organization or any for-profit affiliate of a charitable
organization, that reports income from for-profit activities, or unrelated
business income, for Federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue
Service shall be deemed a business subject to a business license tax on the
part of its gross income from such for-profit activities or unrelated business
income.
      (2)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if:
         (a)   Any net proceeds of operation, after necessary expenses of
operation, inure to the benefit of any individual or any entity that is not
itself a charitable organization as defined in this chapter; or
         (b)   Any net proceeds of operation, after necessary expenses of
operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose as defined in
this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond fair market
value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee or person with
ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a necessary expense of
operation.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.07  FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license, or to give or file,
or direct the giving or filing of, any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.08  DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the license official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his person or in a vehicle used in the business
readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the license official within 10
days after removal of the business to a new location and the license will be
valid at the new address upon written notification by the license official and
compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the approval of
the license official for a change of address shall invalidate the license and
subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a license. A
business license shall not be transferable and a transfer of controlling
interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and the
establishment of a new business requiring a new business license, based on old
business income.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.09  ADMINISTRATION.
   The license official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations and
audits to insure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the municipal attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, make reasonable regulations relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.10  INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
license official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this chapter to make
inspections, examine and audit books and records. It shall be unlawful for any
such person to fail or refuse to make available the necessary books and
records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that the licensee has
filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added to the correct
license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties provided herein.
Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of license tax shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   The license official shall make systematic inspections and random
audits of all businesses within the municipality to insure compliance with the
chapter. Financial information obtained by inspections and audits shall not be
deemed public records, and the license official shall not release the amount of
license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name without
written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this chapter, state
or Federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
   (C)   If a person fails to obtain a business license or to furnish the
information required by this chapter or the license official, the license
official shall examine such records of the business or any other available
records as may be appropriate, and conduct such investigations and statistical
surveys as the license official may deem appropriate to assess a license tax
and penalties as provided herein.
   (D)   A notice of assessment shall be served by certified mail or personal
service. An application for adjustment of the assessment may be made to the
license official within 5 days after the notice is mailed or personally served
or the assessment will become final. The license official shall establish a
uniform procedure for hearing an application for adjustment of assessment and
issuing a notice of final assessment.
   (E)   A final assessment may be appealed to the Council only by payment in
full of the assessment under protest within 5 days and the filing of written
notice of appeal within 10 days after payment pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter relating to appeals to Council.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.11  DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES, PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct license tax, the
license official shall levy and collect a late penalty of 5% of the unpaid tax
for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid. Penalties
shall not be waived. If any license tax remains unpaid for 60 days after its
due date, the license official shall report it to the municipal attorney for
appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the license official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.12  NOTICES.
   The license official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there shall be published
a notice of the due date in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality 3 times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to receive
notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay the tax
due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.13  DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license official shall deny a license to an applicant when the
license official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete, contains a misrepresentation, false
or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business has been convicted of an offense under a law or ordinance
regulating business, a crime involving dishonest conduct or moral turpitude, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee; or
      (6)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied, suspended
or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the license official shall be subject to appeal to
Council as herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.14  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When the license official determines:
   (A)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued contrary
to law;
   (B)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud, misrepresentation,
a false or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a material fact in
the license application;
   (D)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense under a law or ordinance
regulating business, a crime involving dishonest conduct or moral turpitude, or
an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
   (E)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to
the business; or
   (F)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax
or fee:
      (1)   The license official shall give written notice to the licensee or
the person in control of the business within the municipality by personal
service or certified mail that the license is suspended pending a hearing
before Council for the purpose of determining whether the license should be
revoked.
      (2)   The notice shall state the time and place at which the hearing is
to be held, which shall be at a regular or special Council meeting within 30
days from the date of service of the notice, unless continued by agreement. The
notice shall contain a brief statement of the reasons for suspension and
proposed revocation and a copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.15  APPEALS TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision, final assessment, proposed
revocation, suspension, or a denial of a business license by the license
official may appeal the decision to the Council by written request stating the
reasons therefore, filed with the license official within ten days after
service by certified mail or personal service of the notice of decision, final
assessment, proposed revocation, suspension or denial.
   (B)   An appeal or a hearing on proposed revocation shall be held by the
Council within 30 days after receipt of a request for appeal or service of
notice of suspension at a regular or special meeting of which the applicant or
licensee has been given written notice, unless continued by agreement. At the
hearing, all parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
present testimony and evidence and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings
shall be recorded and transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting.
The rules of evidence and procedure prescribed by Council shall govern the
hearing. Council shall by majority vote of members present render a written
decision based on findings of fact and application of the standards herein
which shall be served upon all parties or their representatives and shall be
the final decision of the municipality.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.16  CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, cablevision or other purposes without a consent agreement or
franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that prescribes the
term, fees and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.17  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, it shall be unlawful for any official or employee to divulge or make known
in any manner the amount of income or any particulars set forth or disclosed in
any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so classified as to
prevent the identification of particular reports or returns. Any license data
may be shared with other public officials or employees in the performance of
their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement of the license
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.18  VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall be deemed guilty
of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for
not more than 30 days or both, upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties and costs provided for
herein.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
§ 110.19  CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The Class Structure Model by the North American Industry
Classification System Code, and the Class Structure Model by rate class,
designated as Appendix C to this chapter, may be amended by the Council from
time to time, and current copies shall be filed in the Office of the Municipal
Clerk. These codes are tools for classification and not a limitation on
businesses subject to a license tax. The License Official shall determine the
proper class for a business according to the applicable NAICS code.
   (B)   The license tax for each class of businesses subject to this ordinance
shall be computed in accordance with the Rate Schedule, designated as
Appendix A to this chapter, which may be amended by the Council from time to
time and a current copy filed in the Office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
APPENDIX A:  RATE SCHEDULE
RATE SCHEDULE
                                           Income Over $2,000
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000 Minimum Tax Rate per thousand or fraction
                                           thereof
RATE SCHEDULE
                                           Income Over $2,000
Rate Class Income: $0 - $2,000 Minimum Tax Rate per thousand or fraction
                                           thereof
8.1        $50                             $1.20
8.2        $ set by state statute
8.3        MASC telecommunications
8.4        $80                             $1.20
8.5        $80                             $1.20
8.6        $80                             $1.50
8.6A       $35                             $1.50
8.7        MASC Insurance
8.8A       $12.50 + $12.50 per machine
8.8B       $50                             $1.25
8.8C       $12.50 + $180 per machine
8.9        $75                             $1.50
8.10       $75 + $5 per table              $1.50
 
NON-RESIDENT RATES
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all minimum taxes and rates shall be
doubled for nonresidents and itinerants having no fixed principal place of
business within the municipality.
DECLINING RATES
   Declining Rates apply in all Classes for gross income in excess of
$1,000,000, unless otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter.
 
Gross Income in $ Millions Percent of Class Rate for each additional $1,000
0-1                        100%
1-2                        90%
2-3                        80%
3-4                        70%
OVER 4                     60%
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
APPENDIX B:  CLASS 8 RATES
   Each NAICS Number designates a separate sub-classification. The businesses
in this section are treated as separate and individual subclasses due to
provisions of State law, regulatory requirements, service burdens, tax
equalization considerations, etc., which are deemed to be sufficient to require
individually determined rates. Non-resident rates do not apply except where
indicated.
   NAICS 230000 - Contractors, Construction, All Types
   8.1   Having permanent place of business within the municipality
   Minimum on first $2,000   $50.00 PLUS
   Each additional 1,000   $1.20
   A trailer at the construction site or structure in which the contractor
temporarily resides is not a permanent place of business under this chapter.
   The total tax for the full amount of the contract shall be paid prior to
commencement of work and shall entitle contractor to complete the job without
regard to the normal license expiration date. An amended report shall be filed
for each new job and the appropriate additional license fee per $1,000 of the
contract amount shall be paid prior to commencement of new work. Only one base
tax shall be paid in a calendar year.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all state and
municipal qualification examination and trade license requirements have been
met. Each contractor shall post a sign in plain view on each job identifying
the contractor with the job.
   Sub-contractors shall be licensed on the same basis as general or prime
contractors for the same job. No deductions shall be made by a general or prime
contractor for value of work performed by a sub-contractor.
   No contractor shall be issued a business license until all performance and
indemnity bonds required by the Building Code have been filed and approved.
Zoning permits must be obtained when required by the Zoning Ordinance.
   Each prime contractor shall file with the License Official a list of sub-
contractors furnishing labor or materials for each project.
   8.2   NAICS 482 - Railroad Companies - (See S.C. Code § 12-23-210)
      For the first 1000 inhabitants of the City   $25.00
      For each additional 1000 inhabitants according to the last US
census   $25.00
      [Census population: 1180. Tax = $50.00]
   8.3   NAICS 5171. 5172 - Telephone Companies:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Business License Ordinance,
the business license tax for “retail telecommunications services”, as defined
in S. C. Code Section 58-9-2200, shall be at the maximum rate authorized by S.
C. Code Section 58-9-2220, as it now provides or as provided by amendment. The
business license tax year shall begin on January 1 of each year. Declining
rates shall not apply.
   B.   In conformity with S.C. Code Section 58-9-2220, the business license
tax for “retail telecommunications services” shall apply to the gross income
derived from the sale of retail telecommunications services for the preceding
calendar or fiscal year which either originate or terminate in the municipality
and which are charged to a service address within the municipality regardless
of where these amounts are billed or paid and on which a business license tax
has not been paid to another municipality. The measurement of the amounts
derived from the retail sale of mobile telecommunications services shall
include only revenues from the fixed monthly recurring charge of customers
whose service address is within the boundaries of the municipality. For a
business in operation for less than one year, the amount of business license
tax shall be computed on a twelve-month projected income.
   C.   The business license tax for “retail telecommunications services” shall
be due on January 1 of each year and payable by January 31 of that year,
without penalty.
   D.   The delinquent penalty shall be five percent (5%) of the tax due for
each month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
   E.   Exemptions in the business license ordinance for income from business
in interstate commerce are hereby repealed. Properly apportioned gross income
from interstate commerce shall be included in the gross income for every
business subject to a business license tax.
   F.   Nothing in this Ordinance shall be interpreted to interfere with
continuing obligations of any franchise agreement or contractual agreement in
the event that the franchise or contractual agreement should expire after
December 31, 2003.
   G.   All fees collected under such a franchise or contractual agreement
expiring after December 31, 2003, shall be in lieu of fees or taxes which might
otherwise be authorized by this Ordinance.
   H.   As authorized by S. C. Code Section 5-7-300, the Agreement with the
Municipal Association of South Carolina for collection of current and
delinquent license taxes from telecommunications companies pursuant to S. C.
Code Section 58-9-2200 shall continue in effect.
   NAICS 22112 - Electric Power Distribution         See Consent or Franchise
   NAICS 22121 - Natural Gas Distribution         See Consent or Franchise
   NAICS 517110 - Television: Cable or Pay
      Services using public streets            See Franchise
   8.4   Cable television services not using public streets:
      Minimum on first $2,000               $80.00 PLUS
      Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000         $1.20.
   8.4   NAICS 423930 - Junk or Scrap Dealers [Non-resident rates apply]
      Minimum on first $2,000               $80.00 PLUS
      Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000         $1.20.
   8.4   NAICS 522298 - Pawn Brokers - All Types
      Minimum on first $2,000               $80.00 PLUS
      Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000         $1.20.
   8.5   NAICS 4411, 4412 - Automotive, Motor Vehicles, Boats, Farm Machinery
or Retail
      (except auto supply stores - see 4413)
      Minimum on first $2,000               $80.00 PLUS
      Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000         $1.20
   One sales lot not more than 400 feet from the main showroom may be operated
under this license provided that proceeds from sales at the lot are included in
gross receipts at the main office when both are operated under the same name
and ownership.
   Gross receipts for this classification shall include value of trade-ins.
Dealer transfers or internal repairs on resale items shall not be included in
gross income.
   NAICS 454390 - Peddlers, Solicitors, Canvassers, Door-To-Door Sales
      direct retail sales of merchandise. [Non-resident rates apply]
   8.6   Regular activities[more than two sale periods of more than three days
each per year]
      Minimum on first $2,000   $80.00 PLUS
      Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.50
   8.6A   Seasonal activities[not more than two sale periods of not more than
three days each year, separate license required for each sale period]
         Minimum on first $2,000   $80.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.50.
   Applicant for a license to sell on private property must provide written
authorization from the properly owner to use the intended location.
   8.7   NAICS 5241 - Insurance Companies:
      Except as to fire insurance, "gross premiums" means gross premiums
written for policies for property or a risk located within the municipality. In
addition, "gross premiums" shall include premiums written for policies that are
sold, solicited, negotiated, taken, transmitted, received, delivered, applied
for, produced or serviced by (1) the insurance company's office located in the
municipality, (2) the insurance company's employee conducting business within
the municipality, or (3) the office of the insurance company's licensed or
appointed producer (agent) conducting business within the municipality,
regardless of where the property or risk is located, provided no tax has been
paid to another municipality in which the property or risk is located based on
the same premium.
      Solicitation for insurance, receiving or transmitting an application or
policy, examination of a risk, collection or transmitting of a premium,
adjusting a claim, delivering a benefit, or doing any act in connection with a
policy or claim shall constitute conducting business within the municipality,
regardless of whether or not an office is maintained in the municipality.
      As to fire insurance, "gross premiums" means gross premiums (1) collected
in the municipality, and/or (2) realized from risks located within the limits
of the municipality.
      Gross premiums shall include all business conducted in the prior calendar
year.
      Gross premiums shall include new and renewal business without deductions
for any dividend, credit, return premiums or deposit.
      Declining rates shall not apply.
   NAICS 52411 - Life, Health and Accident   0.75% of Gross Premiums
   NAICS 524126 - Fire and Casualty   2% of Gross Premiums
   NAICS 524127 - Title Insurance   2% of Gross Premiums
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this ordinance, license taxes for
insurance companies shall be payable on or before May 31 in each year without
penalty. The penalty for delinquent payments shall be 5% of the tax due per
month, or portion thereof, after the due date until paid.
   Any exemptions in the business license ordinance for income from business in
interstate commerce are hereby repealed. Gross income from interstate commerce
shall be included in the gross income for every business subject to a business
license tax.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code Ann. §§ 38-45-10 and 38-45-60, the Municipal
Association of South Carolina, by agreement with the municipality, is
designated the municipal agent for purposes of administration of the municipal
broker's premium tax. The agreement with the Association for administration and
collection of current and delinquent license taxes from insurance companies as
authorized by S.C. Code § 5-7-300.
   [The South Carolina General Assembly, in order to ensure consistency with
the federal Non-admitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of 2010 ("NRRA"), ratified
an act (Rat# 283) on June 28, 2012, amending S.C. Code §§ 38-7-16 and 38-45-10
through 38-45-195. The act establishes a blended broker's premium tax rate of 6
percent comprised of a 4 percent state broker's premium tax and a 2 percent
municipal broker's premium tax. The act states a municipality may not impose on
brokers of non-admitted insurance in South Carolina an additional license fee
or tax based upon a percentage of premiums.]
   NAICS 713120 - Amusement Machines, coin operated (except gambling) -
   Music machines, juke boxes, kiddy rides, video games, pin tables with
levers, and other amusement machines with or without free play feature licensed
by SC Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(1) and (A)(2)
- [Type I and Type II]
   8.8A   Operator of machine      $12.50/machine PLUS
   $12.50 business license for operation of all machines (not on gross income).
[§ 12-21-2746]
   8.8B   Distributor selling or leasing machines (not licensed by the State as
an operator pursuant to § 12-21-2728) - [Nonresident rates apply.] Minimum on
first $2,000   $50.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000 or fraction over $2,000   $1.25.
   NAICS 713290 - Amusement Machines, coin operated, non-payout
   Amusement machines of the non-payout type or in-line pin game licensed by SC
Department of Revenue pursuant to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) [Type III]
   8.8C   Operator of machine (owner of business)   $12.50 business license
      for operation of all machines (not on gross income). [§ 12-21-2720(B)]
   8.8B   Distributor selling or leasing machines (not licensed by the State as
an operator pursuant to §12-21-2728) - [Nonresident rates apply.] Minimum on
first $2,000   $50.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.25
   8.9   NAICS 713290 - Bingo halls, parlors -
         Minimum on first $2,000         $75.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.50
   8.9   NAICS 711190 - Carnivals and Circuses -
         Minimum on first $2,000         $75.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.50
   8.9   NAICS 722410 - Drinking Places, bars, lounges, cabarets (Alcoholic
beverages consumed on premises)
         Minimum on first $2,000         $75.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over $2,000   $1.50.
            License must be issued in the name of the individual who has been
issued a State alcohol, beer or wine permit or license and will have actual
control and management of the business.
   8.10   NAICS 713990 - Billiard or Pool Rooms, all types   $5.00 stamp/table
PLUS
         Minimum on first $2,000         $75.00 PLUS
         Per $1,000, or fraction, over 2000      $1.50.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
APPENDIX C:  BUSINESS LICENSE CLASS SCHEDULE BY NAICS CODE
   This appendix will be updated annually based on the latest available IRS
statistics. The updated Business License Class Schedule may be accessed at:
   http://www.masc.sc/SiteCollectionDocuments/finance/BL-AppxB.pdf.
(Ord. passed 9-25-18)
CHAPTER 111:  PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Pool rooms
   
111.02   Musical devices
   
111.03   Gambling
   
111.04   Disturbance at entertainments
   
111.05   Nuisances; abatement generally
   
111.06   Unlawfully allowing under age person(s) to remain at a business with
an on-premise consumption license
§ 111.01  POOL ROOMS.
   (A)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      POOL ROOM.  Any room, hall, building or place kept for the purpose of
operating billiard or pocket billiard tables for the purpose of permitting
games to be played thereon for profit.
      POOL TABLE.  Those tables known as billiard tables or pocket billiard
tables and shall include such tables as are known as miniature pool tables.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.1)
   (B)   Places exempt.
      (1)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to include
billiard tables or billiard rooms operated by private homes, fraternal orders,
bona fide clubs, industrial concerns, religious orders or charitable
institutions when no fees are charged for the use of the tables.
      (2)   Should fees be charged for use of the tables all of the provisions
of this section shall apply.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.2)
   (C)   Age limit restrictions.  It shall be unlawful for any person, or
persons, firm or corporation owning or operating a pool room within the town to
permit any person under 21 years of age to play pool, or otherwise engage in
any game played with the use of such table, unless accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian.  It shall be unlawful to permit any person under 21 years
of age to loiter or loaf in any such pool room, unless accompanies by his or
her parent or guardian.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.3)
   (D)   Posting notices.  In every pool room there shall be posted on at least
2 walls of the room section where the table or tables are operated, placecards
having the preceding section conspicuously written or printed thereon in
letters of not less than 1/4 of a inch in height, for the information of the
patrons.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.4)
   (E)   License tax.  Each person or corporation operating a billiard room in
the state shall pay to the Tax Commission, on or before February 1 of each
year, a tax of $25.  No city, town or village shall issue a license to any
person to run a billiard room until after the Commission shall have first
issued a license.  The town shall then license the business in accordance with
the provisions set forth in
Chapter 110.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.5)
   (F)   Gambling prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for any person or persons,
firm or corporation to permit any gambling or betting of any nature in the
playing of pool or other games on the tables.  It shall also be unlawful to
permit any intoxicated person to play or loiter and remain in the pool room. No
loud, profane, obscene or indecent language shall be permitted in or on the
premises, and the premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.6)
   (G)   Time of closing.  The pool room shall be closed at 11:00 p.m. each
night and remain closed until 6:00 a.m. the following morning, except that on
Sunday no pool table shall be operated for profit or otherwise.  No person
shall be allowed to play on any table at any game during the hours that the
place is closed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.7)
   (H)   No partition or other obstruction allowed.  In every pool room no
screen, curtain, blind partition or other obstruction shall be placed between
the entrance of the room where the game is played, and the back or the rear
wall of the pool room.  A clear view of the entire interior from the entrance
to the rear of the room must be maintained at all times.  No partitions forming
rooms, stalls or other enclosures where the public congregate shall be
permitted.  This section shall not be construed to prohibit the maintenance of
closets for storing purposes exclusively or toilets.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.8)
   (I)   Penalty for violation of this chapter.  Any person violating any
provision of this section shall, upon conviction in the Town Court, be fined
not more than $200, or sentenced to serve upon the public works of the town for
not more than 30 days.  The owner of any such pool room, or the manager, clerk
or operator thereof shall be subject to the penalties herein imposed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.9)
   (J)   Revocation of license for violation of this section.
      (1)   In the event a pool room shall be operated in violation of this
section, or shall be operated in any other manner as to be detrimental to the
best interest of the town, the Town Council shall revoke the license for the
operation of the pool room after notice to the owner or manage thereof, or the
person to whom license shall have been issued, and a hearing  thereon  before
the Town Council.
      (2)   In the event such license shall be revoked, it shall be unlawful
for any person, or persons, firm or corporation to thereafter operate such pool
room and upon conviction before the Town Court, shall be sentenced to pay a
fine of $200 or serve 30 days upon the public works of the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.10)
   (K)   Coin-operated machines.  It shall be unlawful to operate any coin-
operated machine, such a coin-operated pool table, flipper machine or pin ball
machine, or profit or amusement from the hours of 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. on
Monday through Saturday and at any time on Sundays within the corporate limits
of the town.  The provisions of this section shall apply to the owner, manager
or person in charge of any business establishment or place where the machines
shall be.  Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall upon
conviction thereof be imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days or fined in
an amount not to exceed $200.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.11)
§ 111.02  MUSICAL DEVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to play or operate any musical device, operated
by depositing coins therein, generally known as slot operated musical machines,
within the town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. at night and 8:00 a.m. in the
morning, and at any time during Sunday.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-2)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate on public streets or public places
within the corporate limits of Prosperity, 24 hours a day 7 days a week, any
musical device, radio, amplifier, loud speaker or sound or noise producing or
transmitting device of any kind at a volume that it can be heard beyond a
distance of 100 feet or within any house, church or other building other than 1
in which the device is being utilized.  Any person convicted of a violation of
this section shall upon conviction thereof be fined in an amount of $150 on the
first offense and $500 on the second offense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-3)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-8-1991)
§ 111.03  GAMBLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play at any game with cards or
dice, or any other means or instruments in the town when there is betting in
such game or, for any person to bet on the sides or hands of such as do play,
whether the players are betting or not.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-4)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any house or
place in the town for the purpose of gambling or permitting persons to resort
thereat for such purposes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-5)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on his or her premises or
operate or permit to be kept on his or her premises or operated within the town
any slot machine or whatsoever name or kind in which there is any element of
chance, or to keep on his or her premises or to operate or permit to be kept on
his or her premises or operated within the town any punchboard or any
punchboard of any other kind of board or device in which there is any element
of chance or which does not give a uniform and fair return in value for the
money paid by any person for the privilege of punching or otherwise operating
same; provided that, this section shall not apply to automatic weighing,
measuring, musical and vending machines or any other slot machines or device
that gives a uniform and fair return in value for each coin deposited or paid
for the privilege of using same and in which there is not any element of
chance.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.04  DISTURBANCE AT ENTERTAINMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town to behave disorderly in the
opera house any public hall or other place of amusement or entertainment, or to
enter the same in an intoxicated condition, or, to interrupt or to hiss any
player, speaker or other person taking part therein.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-7) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.05  NUISANCES; ABATEMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to abate a
public nuisance on his or her property or on property controlled by him or her
within the town.
      (2)   Each day that this section shall be violated shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense; provided, however, that, if the nuisance is of
such a nature that it cannot be abated immediately it shall be a defense to a
prosecution under this section that the defendant in good faith has commenced
(1) to abate such nuisance; and (2) is proceeding with the abatement thereof
with reasonable diligence; but even though a defendant shall have commenced the
abatement thereof, the failure to complete the abatement with reasonable
diligence shall make the defendant liable to prosecution and conviction
hereunder.
      (3)   In the event that a corporation shall violate this section, the
corporation and its managing officers, and each of them, shall be equally
guilty of the violation of this section and any one, or some, or all of them,
may be charged with a violation or this section, and upon convection punished
hereunder.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-8)
   (B)   (1)   In the event of the prosecution of a corporation for violating
section a summons shall be issued, based upon an affidavit conforming in all
respects to an affidavit supporting the issuance of a warrant of arrest,
against the corporation, requiring the corporation to appear in Municipal Court
on a certain day and hour, to answer the charge, and served upon some officer
or agent of the corporation, together with a copy of the affidavit, and upon
proof thereon, the Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction of the corporation;
and in the event a corporation shall be sentenced hereunder to pay a fine not
exceeding $200, and shall not pay it within 5 days, the Town Clerk/Treasurer
shall issue an execution therefor against the corporation to the Chief of
Police, directing and commanding him or her to levy upon the property of the
corporation to satisfy the execution and costs, in substantially the same
manner as provided by law for the collection of executions on judgments in
courts of record in civil actions.
      (2)   Upon receipt of any such execution, the Chief of Police, in
enforcing the same, shall proceed in all respects as prescribed by state law
for sheriffs of the state in the collection and endorsement of executions,
issued to them under judgments in civil actions, and all sales thereunder shall
be made at the front door of the county courthouse.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-9)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to so conduct himself or herself
or to manage or allow to be used or managed any property, real or personal,
belonging to or controlled by him or her in such a manner as to result in a
nuisance to his or her neighbors or to the public, or to knowingly aid, assist
or abet therein.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-10)
   (D)   Any person who shall be guilty of committing a nuisance in or about
any cemetery, church yard, school yard or public building or place, or on
private premises in the town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.06  UNLAWFULLY ALLOWING UNDER AGE PERSON(S) TO REMAIN AT A BUSINESS WITH
AN ON-PREMISE CONSUMPTION LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any persons, firm or corporation owning or
operating a business with a licenses for on premise consumption of any beer,
ale, porter, malt or other alcoholic beverages, to allow anyone under the legal
drinking and purchasing age of 21 to enter the business and remain there, other
than to make a legal purchase of items sold to persons under the age of 21 and
to leave after making the purchase.  Any owner or operator of such a business
will be responsible for checking IDs to assure that all persons remaining in
the business is of legal age.  The owner will be required to post signs in the
business for anyone under 21 years of age to make their purchase and leave.
   (B)   Any owner or operator found to be in violation of the ordinance shall
be subject to pay a fine of no less than $50 or more than $200 plus court costs
and assessments or 30 days in jail, if convicted.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-12)  (Ord. passed 3-17-1992)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Jurisdiction of Municipal Court
   
112.03   Prior offenses
Violations
   
112.15   Employment of minors; first offense
Prohibited Activity
   
112.30   Intoxication; possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages on
public property
   
112.31   Unlawful to sell unless tax paid
   
112.32   Sale to minors under 21
   
112.33   Giving false age
   
112.34   Purchasing to give to another who cannot lawfully purchase
   
112.35   Purchase or possession by minor under 21 years
   
112.36   Sales between Saturday night and Monday morning prohibited
   
112.37   Beer and wine on violating premises contraband
   
112.38   Drinking or possession on licensed premises at prohibited hours
   
112.39   Acts prohibited on licensed premises; revocation of license
   
112.40   Sale of beer or wine after license revoked, canceled or suspended
   
112.41   Permittee selling draft beer to be approved by state’s Board of Health
   
112.42   Permit and health certificate to be posted
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS.  Any spirituous malt, vinous, fermented, brewed or other
liquors or any compound or mixture thereof by whatever name called or known
which contains alcohol and is used as a beverage.
   NONALCOHOLIC and NONINTOXICATING.  Beverages containing not in excess of 5%
of alcohol by weight and all wines containing not in excess of 21% of alcohol
by volume.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-1)
§ 112.02  JURISDICTION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   All municipal courts and those lawfully acting as judges thereof shall try
and determine all cases involving any violation or this chapter occurring
within the limits of the municipality where the penalties do not exceed a fine
of $200 or imprisonment of 30 days and the courts and judges that the 
municipality shall have are hereby vested with jurisdiction over such criminal
cases, with the right and duty of sending such cases, occurring within the
municipal limits but beyond their jurisdiction to try, to the higher courts.
Any persons convicted hereunder in municipal courts shall be treated as
municipal prisoners.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-2)
§ 112.03  PRIOR OFFENSES.
   A conviction, plea of guilty, plea of nolocontendere or forfeiture of bond
for the violation on or after January 1, 2000 of any of the laws of the state,
or of the United States, relating to alcoholic liquor shall constitute prior
offense for the purpose of any prosecution, or for the purpose of imposition of
sentence for any subsequent violation of this chapter.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-3)  (Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
VIOLATIONS
§ 112.15  EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS; FIRST OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to work as an
employee or otherwise in a retail, wholesale or manufacturing liquor business
or business establishment or for any person knowingly to employ any person
under the age of 21 years in any such business or business establishment.  The
first offense of which is a misdemeanor and within the jurisdiction of the
Municipal Court.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 2-2)  Penalty, see §
112.99
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
§ 112.30  INTOXICATION; POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON
PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Intoxication. It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to be in
any public place, including places of business to which the public is invited,
or on any private premises of another, without the express or implied
permission of the owner or other person in charge of such premises, while under
the influence of any intoxicating liquors, narcotic drugs, barbiturates,
paraldehyde, herbs, or any other substance of like character, whether synthetic
or natural, to the extent that such person's physical or mental faculties are
appreciably affected thereby. A person convicted of violating this sub-section
shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
   (B)   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages on public properly.
Except as expressly provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to consume, or to possess in an open container, any alcoholic beverage
in or on any public street, road, alley, sidewalk, tree zone, parking lot, or
park within the town, except that this sub-section shall not apply to the
following areas:
      (1)   Any portion of a public sidewalk covered by an encroachment
ordinance permitting use of the sidewalk by a restaurant or other public
accommodation licensed to sell beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages for on-
premises consumption; and
      (2)   Any public park, street, road, alley, sidewalk, tree zone, parking
lot, or any portion thereof, designated in a resolution of the Town Council as
the site of a public festival or other special event at which alcoholic
beverages may be consumed. A person convicted of violating this section shall
be fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 2 days.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings specified in this division:
      (1)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 1% ethyl
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   OPEN CONTAINER. A cup, glass, mug or other similar container, and
also any bottle, can, flask or other similar container to which a top or cork
is not securely affixed.
      (3)   PARKING LOT. Any parking lot owned and operated by the town.
      (4)   STREET and ROAD. Only the paved portions of a public right-of-way
that are suitable for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   TREE ZONE. A strip of land between a public street or road and an
adjacent sidewalk parallel thereto.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-16-2009)
§ 112.31  UNLAWFUL TO SELL UNLESS TAX PAID.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or permit to be sold any beer,
ale, porter, wine, malt or other beverage authorized to be sold under state
statutes regulating same, on which the tax levied be not paid.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-2)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32  SALE TO MINORS UNDER 21.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer, ale, porter, wine or other
malt or fermented beverage to a minor under the age of 21 years.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-3)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33  GIVING FALSE AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom beer or wine cannot be lawfully
sold to knowingly give false information concerning his or her age for the
purpose of purchasing beer or wine.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-4)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34  PURCHASING TO GIVE ANOTHER WHO CANNOT LAWFULLY PURCHASE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase beer or wine while on
licensed premises and to give the beer or wine to a person to whom beer or wine
cannot lawfully be sold, for consumption on the premises.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-5)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35  PURCHASE OR POSSESSION BY MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 21 years to
purchase or knowingly have in his or her possession any beer, ale, porter, wine
or any other similar malt or fermented beverage.
   (B)   Any such possession shall be prima facie evidence that it was
knowingly possessed.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to any employee lawfully engaged in the
sale or delivery of the beverage in an unopened container.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-6)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36  SALES BETWEEN SATURDAY NIGHT AND MONDAY MORNING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any wine or
beer in the town between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday night and sunrise
Monday morning.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-7)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.37  BEER AND WINE ON VIOLATING PREMISES CONTRABAND.
   Any place of business violating the previous section shall have all beer and
wine found upon the premises declared contraband and it shall be seized as
contraband liquor; provided that, the person  owning or claiming such beer or
wine may retain possession by delivering a cash bond in an amount equal to the
cost price charged for a like quantity by a licensed wholesaler.  The officer
who shall receive the bond shall deliver a written receipt to the person
posting the bond.  The cash bond shall be deposited in the treasury of the
municipality.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-8)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.38  DRINKING OR POSSESSION ON LICENSED PREMISES AT PROHIBITED HOURS.
   Any person who drinks beer or wine or possesses beer or wine in an open
container between the hours of 12:00 a.m. Saturday night and sunrise Monday
morning at any place licensed to sell beer or wine shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-9)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.39  ACTS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES; REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No holder of a permit authorizing the sale of beer or wine or any
servant, agent or employee of the permittee shall knowingly do any of the
following acts upon the licensed premises covered by the holder’s permit:
      (1)   Sell beer or wine to a minor;
      (2)   Sell beer or wine to any person while the person is in an
intoxicated condition;
      (3)   Permit gambling or games of chance;
      (4)   Permit any lewd, immoral or improper entertainment, conduct or
practices;
      (5)   Permit any act, the commission of which tends to create a public
nuisance or which constitutes a crime under the ordinances of the town or the
laws of the state; or
      (6)   Sell, offer for sale or possess any beverage or alcoholic liquor
the sale or possession of which is prohibited on the licensed premises under
the laws of the state.
   (B)   A violation of any of the foregoing provisions shall be a ground for
the revocation or suspension of the holder’s permit by the state.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-10)
§ 112.40  SALE OF BEER OR WINE AFTER LICENSE REVOKED, CANCELLED OR SUSPENDED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any holder of a license to sell
beer or wine at wholesale or retail, to sell or offer to sell beer or wine
after the license shall have been revoked or cancelled or during  the period of
a suspension of license.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-11)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41  PERMITTEE SELLING DRAFT BEER TO BE APPROVED BY STATE’S BOARD OF
HEALTH.
   No person holding a retail permit to sell beer, ale, porter and other
similar malt or fermented beverage, issued by the state, shall sell the
beverage on draft, on tap or from kegs or other containers on the premises
described in the permit, unless approved by the rules and regulations of the
state’s Board of Health governing eating and drinking establishments and other
retail food establishments.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-12)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42  PERMIT AND HEALTH CERTIFICATE TO BE POSTED.
   Both the permit issued by the state and the certificate of approval issued
by the state’s Board of Health shall be conspicuously posted on the premises.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-13)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be misdemeanor, and
anyone violating any of the provisions thereof shall be punishes as limited by
state statutes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-14)
CHAPTER 113:  SMOKING
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Findings and determinations
   
113.02   Definitions
Prohibited Activity
   
113.15   Application to town-owned facilities and vehicles
   
113.16   Prohibition of smoking on town property
   
113.17   Prohibition of smoking in enclosed public places
   
113.18   Prohibition of smoking in places of employment
   
113.19   Prohibition of smoking in certain outdoor areas
   
113.20   Reasonable distance of entry and outdoor area
   
113.21   Where smoking is not regulated
   
113.22   Declaration of establishment as nonsmoking
   
113.23   Posting of signs
   
113.24   Non-retaliation; non-waiver of rights
   
113.25   Enforcement
   
113.26   Public education
   
113.27   Governmental agency cooperation
   
113.28   Other applicable laws
   
113.29   Interpretation for intent
 
   
113.99   Violations and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Town of Prosperity, South Carolina (the “Town”), is an
incorporated municipality located in Newberry County, South Carolina, and as
such possesses all powers granted to municipalities by the Constitution and the
laws of the State of South Carolina, including the powers enumerated in S.C.
Code § 5-7-30 (2005 Supp) relating to regulating streets, markets, and public
health.
   (B)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major contributor
to indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke (also known as
environmental tobacco smoke) is a cause of disease in healthy nonsmokers,
including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease, and lung cancer. The
National Cancer Institute has determined that secondhand smoke is responsible
for the early deaths of up to 65,000 Americans annually (National Cancer
Institute (NCI), “Health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke:
the report of the California Environmental Protection Agency. Smoking and
Tobacco Control Monograph 10,” Bethesda, MD: National Institutes of Health,
National Cancer Institute (NCI), August 1999.). The Surgeon General has
declared that:
      (1)   Secondhand smoke causes disease and premature death in nonsmokers
exposed to smoke;
      (2)   Children exposed to secondhand smoke have an increased risk for
sudden death syndrome, acute respiratory infections, ear problems, and more
severe asthma;
      (3)   Adults exposed to secondary smoke have a higher risk of coronary
heart disease and lung cancer;
      (4)   There is no safe level of exposure to secondhand smoke; and
      (5)   Separating smoking and nonsmoking sections of indoor areas does not
sufficiently remove the threats of secondhand smoke in enclosed areas.
   (C)   A significant amount of secondhand smoke exposure occurs in the
workplace. Employees who work in smoke-filled businesses suffer a 25% to 50%
higher risk of heart attack and higher rates of death from cardiovascular
disease and cancer, as well as increased acute respiratory disease and
measurable decrease in lung function. (Pitsavos, C; Panagiotakos, D.B.;
Chrysohoou, C; Skoumas, J.; Tzioumis, K.; Stefanadis,C; Toutouzas, P.,
“Association between exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and the
development of acute coronary syndromes: the CARDIO2000 case-control study,”
Tobacco Control 11(3): 220-225, September 2002.)
   (D)   Smoke-filled workplaces result in higher worker absenteeism due to
respiratory disease, lower productivity, higher cleaning and maintenance costs,
increased health insurance rates, and increased liability claims for diseases
related to exposure to secondhand smoke. (“The high price of cigarette
smoking,” Business & Health 15(8), Supplement A: 6-9, August 1997.)
   (E)   Certain outdoor events, such as parades, festivals, and other public
gatherings, result in nonsmokers finding themselves in close proximity to
persons who are smoking which can be reasonably seen to have the same effects
of exposure as when nonsmokers are exposed to smoke in the same enclosed space.
Lighted cigarettes, cigars, and pipes of people standing or sitting in close
proximity have the potential of burning those with whom they inadvertently come
into direct contact and making the air quality and peaceful enjoyment of
outdoor events unreasonably restricted for nonsmokers.
   (F)   When there is a presence of secondhand smoke in enclosed spaces or in
outside areas where there is a public gathering resulting in people being in
close proximity in places that are otherwise open to the public at large, this
inevitably results in persons who do not smoke being forced to bear unwarranted
health risks and inappropriate deprivation of peaceful enjoyment of the
premises to which they have been invited or permitted to enter, even when steps
have been taken to separate “smoking” and “nonsmoking” areas within the
confined space.
   (G)   The town recognizes that smoke creates a danger to the health and
safety of the public at large and that, in order to protect the health and
welfare of the public, it is necessary to restrict smoking in the manner
provided for in this section (the “section”).
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16- 2018)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context shall clearly indicate some other meaning, the terms
defined in this section shall, for all purposes of this chapter and other
documents herein referenced, have the meanings herein specified. Definitions
shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of any of the
terms herein defined.
   BAR. An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BUSINESS. A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity, either for-profit or not-for-profit, including retail
establishments where goods or services are offered for sale; professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered; and private clubs.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages, commission, goods or services in kind or
like compensation, and it shall also mean a person who volunteers his or her
services for a non profit entity.
   EMPLOYER. A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on all
sides by walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from the floor
to the ceiling, including stationary structures and mobile public conveyances;
parking structures and other facilities having only partial exterior walls but
otherwise enclosed by ceilings and floors shall also be included in this
definition.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY. An office or institution providing care or treatment
of persons having diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other
medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited
to, hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight
control clinics, nursing homes (except as otherwise permitted herein), homes
for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. This definition shall include all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within health care
facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and
vehicles. A private residence is not a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT for purposes of this
article unless it is used as a childcare, adult day care, or health care
facility. Nor is a private passenger motor vehicle a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT when
used in the performance of employment responsibilities, provided it is not
being used as public conveyance.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes, or for purposes of benefiting particular club members and
their guests, which is operated solely for a recreational, fraternal, social,
patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary
gain, and which only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. The
affairs and management of the organization are conducted by a Board of
Directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an
annual meeting. The organization has established bylaws and/or a constitution
to govern its activities. The organization has been granted an exemption from
the payment of federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. Section 501.
Establishments which are in fact operating as bars, restaurants, or
entertainment venues primarily for the pecuniary benefit of the owner, or chief
operating officer, or other person having substantial control shall not be
treated as private clubs under this chapter.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area to which the public is invited or to which the public
is permitted to have access, including but not limited to, banks, bars,
educational facilities, health care facilities, hotel and motel lobbies,
laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, theaters, waiting rooms, sports
arena, stadiums and ball parks. A private club is a PUBLIC PLACE when being
used for a function to which the general public is allowed entry. A private
residence is not a PUBLIC PLACE unless it is used as a childcare, adult day
care, or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT. An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, ice cream parlors, and private and public
school cafeterias, which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests,
or employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is
prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere. The term RESTAURANT shall
include a bar area within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental. The term specifically includes cigar bars, which are
establishments licensed for the on-premises sale of beer, wine, and alcoholic
beverages as well as some food service, but the term does not include any
establishment which is primarily a bar or restaurant and which undertakes to
make retail offerings of tobacco products as a means of circumventing the
purposes of this chapter.
   SERVICE LINE. An indoor line in which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving service of any kind, whether or not the service involves the exchange
of money.
   SHOPPING MALL. An enclosed public plaza, promenade, walkway, or hall area
that serves to connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, vape, e-cigarette or other lighted tobacco product in any
manner or in any form.
   SPORTS ARENA. Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16- 2018)
PROHIBITED ACTIVITY
§ 113.15  APPLICATION TO TOWN-OWNED FACILITIES AND VEHICLES.
   All enclosed facilities, buildings, and vehicles owned, leased, or operated
by the town shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.16  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited on all town property, including but not
limited to, the following places:
      (1)   Rooms, chambers, and places of meeting or public assembly.
      (2)   Parks.
      (3)   Ballfields, tennis courts, or any other outdoor athletic venue.
   (B)   Specifically exempted from the prohibitions of this section are areas
defined and clearly marked by the town as designated smoking areas.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.17  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN ENCLOSED PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the city,
including but not limited to, the following places:
   (A)   Galleries, libraries, and museums.
   (B)   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and nonprofit entities patronized by the public, including but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels, and motels.
   (C)   Bars.
   (D)   Bingo facilities.
   (E)   Convention facilities, conference centers, and exhibition halls.
   (F)   Educational facilities, both public and private.
   (G)   Elevators.
   (H)   Health care facilities.
   (I)   Hotel and motel lobbies.
   (J)   Licensed childcare and adult day care facilities.
   (K)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities.
   (L)   Polling places.
   (M)   Private clubs when being used for a function to which the general
public is invited.
   (N)   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots.
   (O)   Restaurants.
   (P)   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-use
areas.
   (Q)   Retail stores.
   (R)   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings.
   (S)   Service lines.
   (T)   Shopping malls.
   (U)   Sports arenas.
   (V)   Theaters, performance halls, lecture halls, and similar facilities,
inclusive of lobbies, audience seating areas, dressing rooms, projections
booths, back stage areas, and the stage, but excluding smoking on stage when it
is an integral part of a theatrical performance.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.18  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment without exception, including but not limited to common work areas,
auditoriums, classrooms, conference and meeting rooms, private offices,
elevators, hallways, medical facilities, cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs,
restrooms, vehicles used for the conveyance of the public, but not including
vehicles used in performing employment responsibilities when the sole occupants
and users are person who smoke.
   (B)   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated by employers to all
existing employees by the effective date of this chapter and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.19  PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN CERTAIN OUTDOOR AREAS.
   Smoking shall also be prohibited in certain outdoor areas when the use
involves a gathering of the public, regardless of the number actually assembled
for the event, performance, or competition. This prohibition shall apply to:
   (A)   Ball parks and stadiums when in use for athletic competitions or
public performances.
   (B)   Parades and special events on public streets and city property,
although the city manager has the discretion, but not the obligation, to
establish designated smoking areas in or in proximity to the parade or event
area.
   (C)   Dining areas in encroachment areas on public sidewalks, plazas, and
parks and dining areas on decks, balconies, and patios of restaurants and bars.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.20  REASONABLE DISTANCE OF ENTRY AND OUTDOOR AREA.
   Smoking is prohibited within a distance of 25 feet from any entry into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited, so as to insure that tobacco smoke
does not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or
other means. Smoking is also prohibited within 20 feet of the boundary of the
outdoor areas where smoking is prohibited. Persons who have begun smoking prior
to approaching the 20-foot distance may continue doing so, provided they do not
stop, stand, sit, or linger within the 20-foot distance.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.21  WHERE SMOKING IS NOT REGULATED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the
following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of §§
113.17,
113.18 and
113.19 of this section:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care, or health care facility.
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than 20% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. All smoking rooms on the same
floor must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this section. The
status of rooms as smoking or non-smoking may not be changed, except to add
additional non-smoking rooms.
   (C)   Retail tobacco stores, provided that smoke from these places does not
infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long-term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed in a room where smoking is
permitted; provided that smoke from these places does not infiltrate into areas
where smoking is prohibited under the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Private clubs that have no employees, except when being used for a
function to which the general public is admitted.
   (F)   Outdoor areas of places of employment except those covered by the
provisions of §§
113.19 and
113.20 of this section.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.22  DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a non-
smoking place. Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign
conforming to the requirements of §
113.24 is posted.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.23  POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   “No smoking” signs or the international “no smoking” symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in every area or place where smoking is prohibited by this chapter, by the
owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that place.
   (B)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this section shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this section by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of the area.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.24  NON-RETALIATION; NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any
manner retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer
because that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by
this chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this section.
   (B)   An employee who works in a setting where an employer allows smoking
does not waive or otherwise surrender any legal rights the employee may have
against the employer or any other party.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.25  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the office of the Town Administrator
or an authorized designee.
   (B)   Notice of the provisions of this chapter shall be given to all
applicants for a business license in the town.
   (C)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the office of the Town Administrator.
   (D)   The building codes division, fire department, or their designees
shall, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections,
inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
member of the public may bring legal action against a person, business, or
organization in violation of this section to enforce this chapter.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
member of the public may bring legal action against a person, business, or
organization in violation of this section to enforce this chapter.
   (G)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
section, the city or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner,
operator, manager, or other person in control of a public place or a place of
employment to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for
injunctive relief to enforce those provisions in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.26  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city shall engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the
purposes and requirements of this chapter to citizens affected by it, and to
guide owners/operators, and managers in their compliance with it. The program
may include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and individuals
explaining the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.27  GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY COOPERATION.
   The city shall annually request other governmental and educational agencies
having facilities within the city to establish local operating procedures in
cooperation and compliance with this article. This includes urging all Federal,
state, county, city, and school district agencies to update their existing
smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health findings
regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.28  OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.29  INTERPRETATION FOR INTENT.
   It is the intent of Council to prohibit smoking whenever the private choice
of smoking intrudes or has the capacity to intrude upon the right of persons
concerned about protecting their own rights to be free from the hazards and
inconvenience of secondhand smoke on town property where they work, stand, sit,
walk, dine, drink, read, study, or engage in entertainment and recreation. All
provisions shall be construed to achieve these purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
§ 113.99  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a
fine of not less than $10 nor more than $25.
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not less
than $10 nor more than $25.
   (C)   In addition to the fines established by this section, repeated
violations of this chapter by a person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment may result in the
suspension or revocation of any occupancy permit or business license issued to
the person for the premises on which the violation occurred.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
which may be abated by the city by restraining order, preliminary and permanent
injunction, or other means provided for by law, and the city may take action to
recover the costs of the nuisance abatement.
   (E)   Each day of a continuing violation of this chapter shall be considered
a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Indecent exposure
   
130.002   Bawdy house
   
130.003   Betting
   
130.004   Sending obscene messages
   
130.005   Fortunetelling
   
130.006   Vagrancy
   
130.007   Loitering, obstructing and the like; streets, public places and the
like
Offenses Against the Peace
   
130.020   Pointing pistol or gun at any person
   
130.021   Discharge of firearms
   
130.022   Weapons; carrying concealed; forfeiture
   
130.023   Carrying weapons
   
130.024   Disorderly conduct
   
130.025   Escape
   
130.026   Disturbing school
   
130.027   Interfering with worship
   
130.028   Engaging, aiding or participating in riot
   
130.029   State of emergency; curfew authorized
   
130.030   [Reserved]
   
130.031   Careless operation of motor vehicles
   
130.032   Resisting officer making arrest
   
130.033   Noise; unreasonably loud, disturbing and the like
   
130.034   Controlled substances
Offenses Against Property
   
130.045   Petit larceny
   
130.046   Public parks; driving, damaging and the like
   
130.047   Damaging property
   
130.048   Failure to leave premise when ordered
   
130.049   Removing, destroying; leaving down fences
   
130.050   Receiving stolen goods
   
130.051   Obtaining signature or property by false pretenses
   
130.052   Obtaining property under false tokens or letters
   
130.053   Obtaining credit or property with expired, false credit card
   
130.054   Securing property by fraudulent impersonation of officer
   
130.055   Trespass
   
130.056   Altering or removing landmarks
   
130.057   Fraudulent checks, drafts or other written orders
Offenses Against Public Justice
   
130.070   Disrupting Court or Council
Offenses Against Persons
   
130.080   Assault and battery
   
130.081   Child and helpless person neglect
   
130.082   Failing to remove doors from abandoned refrigerators
   
130.083   Leaving abandoned wells open
Security Alarms
   
130.095   Alarm systems with monitor at Town Hall
 
   
130.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001  INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   Is shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of indecent exposure
within the limits of the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.002  BAWDY HOUSE.
   The keeping of a bawdy house or disorderly house or a house of prostitution
within the corporate limits of the town shall be a misdemeanor for the owner or
lessee of any dwelling house or other building situated within the corporate
limits of the town, to let or sublet the dwelling or house or other building to
any person to be used, or with the knowledge that the same is intended to be
used, and kept as a bawdy house or house of prostitution.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-2) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.003  BETTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to play at any game or games
with cards or dice, or any means or instruments in the town when there is
betting in such games or game; or for any person to bet on the side of hands of
such as do play, whether the players are betting or not.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-3) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.004  SENDING OBSCENE MESSAGES.
   Any person who shall anonymously write, print or by any other manner or
means whatsoever communicate, send or deliver to anyone within the state any
obscene, profane, indecent, vulgar, suggestive or immoral message shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in the
discretion of the court.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-5) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.005  FORTUNETELLING.
   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business, trade or profession of
fortunetelling, palmistry, phrenology, clairvoyance or the prediction of future
events by cards or other means or to offer to tell fortunes or predict future
events by palmistry, astrology, clairvoyance, cards or other means as an
inducement to promote some other business, trade or profession.  Any person
violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-6) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.006  VAGRANCY.
   All persons wandering from place to place within the corporate limits of the
town, without known residence or residing in the town, who have no visible or
known means of gaining a fair, honest and reputable livelihood; all suspicious
persons going about within the corporate limits of the town swapping and
bartering horses (without producing a certificate of his, her or their good
character signed by a Magistrate of the county from which the person last
came); likewise all persons who acquire a livelihood by gambling or horse
racing, without other visible means of gaining livelihood, all keepers of
gaming tables, faro banks or other banks whatsoever used for gaming known under
any other denomination within the corporate limits of the town; also, all
persons who lead idle and disorderly lives, all who knowingly harbor horse
thieves and felons, and those who are known to be of that character and
description; likewise all persons not following some handicraft, trade or
profession, or not having some known or visible means of livelihood, who shall
be able to work; all fortune tellers for fee or rewards, and all beggars, are,
and shall be deemed vagrants, and upon conviction thereof shall be fined or
imprisoned as for a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-7)
§ 130.007  LOITERING, OBSTRUCTING AND THE LIKE; STREETS, PUBLIC PLACES AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall loiter, lounge or sleep in or upon any street, park or
public place or in any public building, or obstruct the access to any public
building or any part thereof, or obstruct passage through or upon any public
street, park or public place.
   (B)   For the purpose of the section, the term “loiter” shall encompass, but
shall not necessarily by limited to 1 or more of the following acts:
      (1)   Obstruction of the free, unhampered passage of pedestrians or
vehicles;
      (2)   Obstructing, molesting or interfering with any person lawfully upon
any street, park or public place;
      (3)   Remaining idle in essentially one location without being able to
establish having a legitimate business or purpose in so remaining idle, or, by
general conduct, exhibiting the absence of a lawful purpose in so remaining
idle;
      (4)   Conduct involving the concept of standing idly by, loafing, walking
about aimlessly without purpose and including the colloquial expression of
“hanging around”; and
      (5)   Refusing to move on when so requested by a peace officer; provided
that, the peace officer has exercised his or her discretion reasonably under
the circumstances in order to preserve or promote public peace and order.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the term “other public place” shall
be deemed to include the quasi-public area in front of or adjacent to any
store, shop, restaurant, luncheonette or other place of business and shall
include also any parking lots or other vacant private property not owned or
under the dominion of the person charged with a violation of this section.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-8) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
§ 130.020  POINTING PISTOL OR GUN AT ANY PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to present or point at any other person
any loaded or unloaded firearm and, upon conviction therefor, any such person
shall be punished by fine or imprisonment. Nothing contained herein shall be
construed to abridge the right of self-defense or to apply to theatricals or
like performances.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.021  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful at any time to fire a gun, pistol, cannon, rifle or any
species of firearm in the town, except in regular military training.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-2) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.022  WEAPONS; CARRYING CONCEALED; FORFEITURE.
   Any person carrying a dirk, slingshot, metal knuckles, razor, hawkbilled
knife, blackjack or other deadly weapon usually used for the infliction of
personal injury concealed about his or her person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof before the Municipal Court, shall
forfeit to the town the weapon so carried concealed and be fined in the sum of
not more than $500 and/or imprisoned not more than 30 days, in the discretion
of the court.  Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to persons
carrying concealed weapons upon their own premises or to peace officers in the
actual discharge of their duties as such, except as authorized by state law.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-3) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.023  CARRYING WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about the person in the town,
whether concealed or not, unless a valid permit is possessed, any pistols;
also, it shall be unlawful for any person to carry about his or her person in
the town, any dirk, slingshot, metal knuckles, razor or other weapon usually
used for the infliction of personal injury or injuries.  Any person violating
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, except as
authorized by state law.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-4) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.024  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person who may be guilty of disorderly conduct in the town shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who shall do or engage in any of the following shall be
guilty of disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby any person is placed in fear of safety of his or her life,
limb or health;
      (2)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby property or any person is placed in danger of being destroyed
or damaged;
      (3)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence, angry threats and abusive conduct;
      (4)   Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl
or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of
another;
      (5)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
for the purpose of causing, provoking or engaging in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding or
pushing any person in any public place;
      (7)   Any person who shall collect in bodies or in crowds for unlawful
purposes;
      (8)    Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
for the purposes of or with the intent to engage in gaming;
      (9)   Any person who shall frequent any public place with the intent to
obtain money from another by an illegal and fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice
or device;
      (10)   Any person who assembles with another or others for the purposes
of engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable
thing in any place or from any person in the town, or who shall aid or abet
therein;
      (11)   Any person who utters, while in a state of anger, in the presence
of another, any lewd or obscene works or epithets;
      (12)   Any person who frequents any place where gaming or the illegal
sale or possession of alcoholic beverages or narcotics or dangerous drugs is
practiced, allowed or tolerated;
      (13)   Any person who shall act in a dangerous manner toward others;
      (14)   Any person who shall use “fighting words” directed toward any
person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil;
      (15)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others
for the purpose of doing bodily harm to another;
      (16)   Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with
another's pursuit of a lawful occupation; and
      (17)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on
any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
refuse to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a peace officer or
other person having authority.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-5)
§ 130.025  ESCAPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under arrest in the custody of a
regular or special police officer of the town or in the custody of the
Municipal Court, or on the work crew of the town, to make his or her escape
therefrom, or to attempt to escape therefrom in any manner.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to aid or assist any
person under arrest or in confinement to make his or her escape.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-6) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.026  DISTURBING SCHOOL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully or unnecessarily to
interfere with or to disturb in any way or in any place the students or
teachers of any school inside the corporate limits of Prosperity, to loiter
about the school premisses or to act in an obnoxious manner thereon.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for anyone to enter upon any school premises
or to loiter about said premises without the permission of the principal or the
person in charge of the school.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-7) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.027  INTERFERING WITH WORSHIP.
   Any person who shall interfere by misbehaving with any religious service in
the town shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-8) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.028  ENGAGING, AIDING OR PARTICIPATING IN RIOT.
   Any person, upon conviction of engaging in a riot, rout or affray when no
weapon was actually used and no wound inflicted shall be subject and liable for
each offense and to a fine not to exceed $500 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-9) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.029  STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, civil disturbance, catastrophe or
for any other reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, health,
welfare or property.
   (B)   In the event of a state of emergency threatening or endangering the
lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town or threatening
damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence
of such a state of emergency, and, in order more effectively to protect the
lives, safety and property of people within the town, to define and impose a
curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application
of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
jurisdiction of the town and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew policeman, firefighters, doctors, nurses and such other
classes of person as may be essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the
people of the town.
   (D)   The Town Council shall be called into session within 24 hours after
the state of emergency has been proclaimed by the Mayor.
   (E)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency and curfew
as soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by Town Council.
   (F)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew
has been defined and imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to
curfew:
      (1)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property unless the travel is necessary to obtain medical assistance;
      (2)   To possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell. give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosive, firearms, ammunition or
dangerous weapons of any kind;
      (3)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind or to
possess or consume the same off one’s own premises; or
      (4)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products or any
other combustible or inflammable substances except as expressly authorized by
the provisions of the curfew imposed.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-10)
§ 130.030  [RESERVED].
§ 130.031  CARELESS OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle anywhere in
the town limits without exercising due care and caution and full regard for the
safety of persons and property.  Any person failing to do so shall be guilty of
the offense of careless driving, and upon conviction shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall pay a fine not  to exceed $265or imprisonment of 30
days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-12) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.032  RESISTING OFFICER MAKING ARREST.
   Any person or persons who shall resist or obstruct any officer of the town
in the discharge of his or her duty, or who shall aid or abet any person or
persons in resisting or obstructing any officer of the town in the discharge of
his or her duty, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, subject to the
limitations prescribed by S.C. Code § 16:105.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-13) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.033  NOISE; UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing
or unnecessary noise in the town.
   (B)   Except as required by law, no person shall blow or cause to be blown
within the town any steam whistle, electric horn or other sound producing
device, except as alarm signals in case of fire or collision or other imminent
danger or as customary time signals by industrial whistles.
   (C)    It shall be unlawful for any person to play any radio, phonograph or
musical instrument in the town in a manner or with such a volume as to annoy or
disturb the quite, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause or permit to
be operated, any automatic or electrical piano, phonograph, graphophone,
victrola, loudspeaker or any instrument or sound producing or sound amplifying
device of like character so loudly as to unreasonably disturb persons in the
vicinity thereof or in a manner as renders the same a public nuisance;
provided  that, upon application to and approval by the Chief of Police,
written permits may be granted to responsible organizations to broadcast
programs of music, speeches, general entertainment or announcements as a part
of and incident to community celebrations of national, state of town occasions,
public festivals or other outstanding event;. provided, traffic on the streets
in not obstructed by reason thereof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful in the town for any person to make a noise upon a
public street or in a proximity thereto as to be distinctly and loudly audible
upon the street by any kind of crying, calling or shouting or by means of any
whistle, rattle, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical instrument or other
device for the purpose of attracting attention or of inviting patronage of any
persons to any business whatsoever.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, in conducting any building
operation between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., to operate or use any
piledrivers, steam shovels, pneumatic hammers, derricks, steam or electric
hoists or other apparatus, the use of which is attended with loud or unusual
noises in any block in which more than 1/2 of the buildings on either side of
the street are used for residential purposes exclusively.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-14) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.034  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A drug, substance or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V in S.C. Code §§ 44-53-190, 44-53-210, 44-53-250 and 44-
53-270, as may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      CRACK.  Crack cocaine, as defined in S.C. Code § 44-53-110, as amended.
      DELIVER or DELIVERY.  The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of a
controlled substance or illegal drug or paraphernalia, as defined in this
section.
      DRUG.  A substance, as defined in S.C. Code § 44-53-110, as amended, and
as may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      ICE or CRANK.  A crystal form of a d-meth-amphetamine hydrochloride, a
crystal form of other amphetamine or methamphetamine derivatives, and means
such other form of amphetamine or methamphetamine or such other drug as may be
otherwise defined in S.C. Code § 44-53-110, as amended.
      MARIJUANA.  A substance, as defined in S.C. Code § 44-53-110, as amended,
and as may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      NARCOTIC DRUG.  Opium, coca leaves, opiates, compounds, manufacture,
salt, derivative or preparation of opium, coca leaves or opiates, together with
the definition of narcotic drugs as defined in S.C. Code § 44-53-110, as
amended, and as may be amended from time to time hereafter.
      PARAPHERNALIA.  Any instruments, device, article or contrivance used,
designed for use, or intended for use in ingesting, smoking, administering,
preparing or otherwise consuming marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, heroin,
cocaine or any derivatives thereof, ice, crank, crack or any other drug or
other controlled substance, but shall not include cigarette papers and tobacco
pipes, but shall include, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
used, designed for use with, or intended for use with marijuana, hashish,
hashish oil, cocaine, “narcotic drugs”, “ice”, “crank”, “crack” or other
illegal drug or controlled substance, whether or not such pipe is equipped with
screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, “crack” heads, “ice” heads or
punctured metal bowls.
         (b)   Water pipes used with, designed for use with, or intended for
use with: marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, “narcotic drugs”, “ice”,
“crank”, “crack” or other illegal drug or controlled substance.
         (c)   “Carburetor” pipes, tubes or devices, that is, devices
incorporating a tube and which are used for the controlled ingestion into the
lungs of the user of substantial quantities of smoke derived from the burning
of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, heroin, “narcotic drugs”, “ice”,
“crank”, “crack” or other illegal drug or controlled substance.
         (d)   Smoking a “carburetion” masks, that is, devices incorporating
masks which exclude normal air from the facial orifices of the user, and which
allow the user to ingest into his or her lungs substantial quantities of smoke
derived from the burning of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, heroin,
“narcotic drugs”, “ice”, “crank”, “crack” or other illegal drug or controlled
substance.
         (e)   “Roach clip”, that is, a clip-type or spring-type, or other,
device used for the holding of marijuana cigarettes to facilitate the smoking
of marijuana cigarettes by the user of the “roach clip”.
         (f)   Separation gins used for, designed for use, or intended for use,
in cleaning marijuana.
         (g)   Spoons or vials used for the storage or consumption of cocaine,
heroin, “crack”, “crank”, “ice”, or other narcotic drugs or controlled
substances.
         (h)   Chamber pipes, that is, devices incorporating a smoke chamber
and a method of burning marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, “narcotic
drugs”, “ice”, “crank”, “crack” or other illegal drug or controlled substance,
and used for, intended to be used for, a designed for use, in connection with
the smoking of the drugs aforementioned.
         (i)   “Electric pipes” that is, devices incorporating a tube or pipe,
and an electric blower device, and which are used for, designed for use for, or
intended for use for, the controlled ingestion into the lungs of the user of
substantial quantities of  smoke derived from the burning of marijuana,
hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, “narcotic drugs”, “ice”, “crank”, “crack” or
other illegal drug or controlled substance.
         (j)   “Air-driven pipes” that is, devices incorporating a tube or pipe
and a means of mechanically forcing air through the pipe, and which are used
for, designed for use for, or intended for use for, the controlled ingestion
into the lungs of the user of substantial quantities of smoke derived from the
burning of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil, cocaine, “narcotic drugs”. “ice”,
“crank”, “crack” or other illegal drug or controlled substance.
         (k)   “Bong”, means the slang term for a “carburetor” tube or pipe, as
defined herein.
         (l)   “Ice pipe or chiller” means a carburetor type tube or pipe, as
defined in Paragraph 3 of this section, which has the additional feature of
incorporating a cooling mechanism for the cooling of the smoke produced by the
devices.
         (m)   “Syringes” means those syringes used for, designed for use for,
or intended for use for administration of drugs, controlled substances and/or
narcotic drugs, and which syringes are not possessed pursuant to a valid
prescription from a medical doctor.
         (n)   “Possession” means having “paraphernalia” on or about the
person, or having dominion and control over those portions of a premises where
in the person knows, or reasonably should know, that “paraphernalia” is
located.
   (B)   The possession anywhere in “paraphernalia,” as defined in this
section, shall be illegal, unless otherwise authorized by state or federal law,
or unless authorized by valid prescription from a physician licensed to
practice medicine in South Carolina, or licensed by the united states
government.
   (C)   (1)   If any person has possession, dominion or control over
“paraphernalia”, or over the premises where the  “paraphernalia is located, and
at the same time and place, has dominion or control over controlled substances,
including, but not limited to “narcotic drugs”, marijuana, “crack”, “heroin”,
“ice” or  “Crank”, the court or jury may find, but is not required to find,
that the person has possession of “paraphernalia” in contravention of this
section.
      (2)   If any person has possession, dominion or control over
“paraphernalia”, and such paraphernalia is contaminated with any trace or small
amount of controlled substances, including, but not limited to “narcotic
drugs”, marijuana, “crack”, “heroin”, “ice” or “crank”.  The court or jury may
presume that such “paraphernalia” is used, designed to be used or intended to
be used as “paraphernalia” as defined in this ordinance, and such person may be
found guilty of violating this section.
   (D)   Any person found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
violating this section shall be subject to the maximum penalties not provided,
or which may hereafter be provided, by the laws of the State of South Carolina
for violations of criminal offenses within the jurisdiction of the Municipal
Courts of the state.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-15)  (Ord. passed 11-19-1991) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
§ 130.045  PETIT LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to commit the crime of petit
larceny within the incorporated limits of the town.  Any person who violates
the provision of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Petit larceny
is determined when the value of the stolen article shall be less than $1,000.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.046  PUBLIC PARKS; DRIVING, DAMAGING AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride across any public park
in the town, and it shall also be unlawful for any person to mutilate or pluck
or otherwise damage any grass, flower or shrubbery in the public parks of the
town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-2) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.047  DAMAGING PROPERTY.
   Any persons who shall injure any animal, the property of another, or who
shall damage any goods, wares or merchandise, or other personal property of
another person or any public property within the limits of the town shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any person or persons who shall damage or
destroy any fencing, fences, trees, shrubbery or buildings on the land of
another or belonging to any other person or persons within limits of the town
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-3) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.048  FAILURE TO LEAVE PREMISES WHEN ORDERED.
   (A)   Any person or persons who, when requested to leave the residence of
another or the premises of another wherein any 1 or more persons shall conduct
business (except offices of public officers) within the town, shall refuse to
do so, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   If a person enters upon any public premises or facility within the
town and violates any rule or regulation of the town, an officer of the town
may inform the person or persons of the rule or regulation and its violation.
If the person or persons do not immediately cease and desist from violating the
rule or regulation, the officer of the town may direct the person or persons to
leave the public premises or facility, and if the person or persons fail to do
so, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-4)  (Am. Ord. 130.048, passed 6-16-2009)
Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.049  REMOVING, DESTROYING; LEAVING DOWN FENCES.
   Any person other than the owner, who shall remove, destroy or leave down any
portion of any fence in the town intended to enclose animals of any kind or
crops or uncultivated lands or who shall leave open any gate or leave down any
bars or other structure intended for a like purpose shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by the fine of not less than $5 nor more than
$30 or be imprisoned in the county jail not less than 5 and not more than $30
days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-5) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.050  RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS.
   In all cases whatever when any goods or chattels or other property of which
larceny may be committed shall have been feloniously taken or stolen by any
person, every person knowing the same to have been stolen shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment
although the principal felon be not previously convicted and whether he is
amenable to justice or not; provided that, when the chattel or other property
stolen shall be of less value than $1,000, the punishment shall not exceed
imprisonment in the county jail for 30 days or a fine of not more than $500.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-6) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.051  OBTAINING SIGNATURE OR PROPERTY BY FALSE PRETENSES.
   Any person who shall by any false pretense or representation obtain the
signature of any person to any written instrument or shall obtain from any
other person any chattel, money, valuable security or other property, real or
personal, if the sum of the written instrument of the value of the property so
obtained does not exceed $1,000, with the intent to cheat or defraud any person
of the property, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and the case shall be triable
in the Municipal Court or like jurisdiction, and the punishment shall be not
more than is permitted by law without presentment or indictment of the grand
jury.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-7)
§ 130.052  OBTAINING PROPERTY UNDER FALSE TOKENS OR LETTERS.
   Whoever shall falsely and deceitfully obtain or get into his or her hands or
possession any money, goods, chattels, jewels or other things of any other
person by color and means of any false token or counterfeit letter made in any
other person’s name shall, upon conviction thereof, suffer the imprisonment as
the court may adjudge; provided that, when the money, goods, chattels and other
things so obtained do not exceed in value $1,000, then the offense shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-8) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.053  OBTAINING CREDIT OR PROPERTY WITH EXPIRED, FALSE CREDIT CARD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly use for the purpose
of obtaining credit or for the purchase of goods, property or services (a) a
credit card which has been issued to such person and which is not used with the
consent of the person to whom issued (b) a credit card which has been revoked
or cancelled by the issuer of the card and notice thereof has been given to the
person, (c) a credit card which has expired or (d) a credit card which is
false, fictitious or counterfeit.
   (B)   The term “credit card” as used in this section means as identification
card, credit number, credit device or other credit document issued to a person
by a business organization which permits such person to purchase or obtain
goods, property or services on the credit of such organization.
   (C)   The word “notice” as used in this section shall be construed to
include either notice given to the purchaser in person or notice given to him
or her in writing. The notice in writing shall be presumed to have been given
when deposited as registered or certified matter, in the United States mail,
addressed to such person at his or her address as appears in the files of the
issuer of the credit card.
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of this section when the amount of
credit or purchase obtained is less than $50 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine of not more than $100 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-9) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.054  SECURING PROPERTY BY FRAUDULENT IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   Whoever, with intent to defraud either the state, any county or municipal
government thereof or any person, shall take upon himself or herself to act as
an officer or shall in such pretensive or pretended character demand, obtain or
receive from any person or any officer of the state, county or municipal
government any money, paper, document or other valuable things shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and be punished by fine or imprisonment.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-10) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.055  TRESPASS.
   (A)   Every entry upon the lands of another where any horse, mule, cow, hog
or any other livestock is pastured, or any other lands of another, after notice
from the owner or tenant prohibiting such entry, shall be a misdemeanor and be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment with hard labor on
the public works of the county for not exceeding 30 days.  When any owner or
tenant of any lands shall post a notice in four conspicuous places on the
borders of the land prohibiting entry thereon, a proof of the posting shall be
deemed and taken as notice conclusive against the person making entry, as
aforesaid, for the purpose of trespassing.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-11)
   (B)   Any person entering upon the lands of another for the purpose of
hunting, fishing, trapping, netting, gathering fruit, wild flowers, cultivated
flowers, shrubbery, straw, turf, vegetables or herbs or cutting timber on the
same, without the consent of the owner or manager thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall pay a fine of not more than
$500 or be imprisoned at hard labor not more than 30 days, for each and every
offense.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-12) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.056  ALTERING AND REMOVING LANDMARKS.
   If any person shall knowingly, willfully, maliciously or fraudulently cut,
fell, alter or remove any certain boundary tree or other allowed landmark, the
person so offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined not exceeding $500 or imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-13) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.057  FRAUDULENT CHECKS, DRAFTS OR OTHER WRITTEN ORDERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to defraud, in his or
her own name or in any other capacity, to draw, make, utter, issue or deliver
to another, any check, draft or other written order on any bank or depository
for the payment of money or its equivalent, whether given to obtain money,
services, credit or property of any kind or nature whatever, or anything of
value, when at the time of drawing, making, uttering, issuing or delivering
such check or draft or other written order the maker or drawer thereof does not
have an account in such bank or depository or does not have sufficient funds on
deposit with such bank or depository to pay the same on presentation or if the
check, draft or other written order has an incorrect or insufficient signature
thereon to be paid upon presentation.
   (B)   In any prosecution or action under the provisions of this section, a
check, draft, or other written order for which the information required in
division (B)(1) below is available at the time of issuance shall constitute
prima facie evidence of the identity of the party issuing the check, draft or
other written order and that the person was a party authorized to draw upon the
named account.
      (1)   To establish this prima facie evidence, the full name, residence
address and home telephone number of the person presenting the check, draft or
other written order shall be obtained by the party receiving the instrument. 
The information may be provided by having the information recorded on the check
or instrument itself or the number of the check-cashing identification card
issued by the receiving party may be recorded on the check. Such check-cashing
identification card shall be isuued only after the full name, residence address
and home telephone number of the person presenting the check, draft or other
written order has been placed on file by the receiving party.
      (2)   In addition to the information required in division (B)(1) above,
the party receiving a check shall witness the signature or endorsement of the
party presenting such check and as evidence of such, the receiving party shall
initial the check. Validation by a bank teller machine shall constitute
compliance with this item.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the drawee of the check, draft or other
written order, before refusing to pay the same to the holder thereof upon
presentation, to cause to be written, printed or stamped in plain language
thereon or attached thereto, the reason for drawee’s dishonor or refusal to pay
same. In all prosecutions under this section, the introduction into evidence of
any unpaid and dishonored checks, drafts, or other written orders, having the
drawee’s refusal to pay stamped or written thereon, or attached thereto, with
the reason therefor as aforesaid, shall be prima facie evidence of the making
or uttering of the check, draft or other written order, and the due
presentation to the drawee for payment and the dishonor thereof, and that the
same was properly dishonored for the reasons written, stamped or attached by
the drawee on such dishonored check, draft or other written order; and, as
against the maker or drawer thereof, the withdrawing from deposit with the
drawee named in the check, draft or other written order upon presentation
within 10 days after negotiation; or the drawing, making, uttering or
delivering of a check, draft or written order, payment of which is refused by
the drawee, shall be prima facie evidence of knowledge of insufficient funds in
or credit with the drawee; provided, however, if it is determined at the trial
in a prosecution hereunder, that the payee of any such check, draft or written
order at the time of accepting the check, draft or written order had knowledge
of or any reason to believe that the drawee of the check, draft or other
written order did not have sufficient funds on deposit in or credit with the
drawee, then the payee instituting the criminal prosecution shall be assessed
all costs of court incurred in connection with the prosecution.
   (D)   (1)   The word CREDIT, as used in this section, shall be construed to
mean securing further advances of money, goods services by means of a check,
draft or other written order, given in whole or in part payment of a then
existing account.  Payment for meals, lodging or other goods or services at any
hotel, motel or other hostelry by means of a check, draft or other written
order at any time prior to or upon departure or checkout from the hostelry
shall be construed as obtaining the goods or services by means of the check,
draft or other written order for the purposes of this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any postdated check or to any check
given only in full or partial payment of a preexisting debt, or to the giving
of any check, draft or other written order where the payee knows, has been
expressly notified or has reason to believe that the drawee did not have an
account or have on deposit with the drawee sufficient funds to insure payment
thereof nor to any check which has not been deposited to an account of the
payee within a period of 10 days from the date the check was presented to the
payee.
      (3)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to induce, solicit or to
aid and abet any other person to draw, make, utter, issue or deliver to any
person including himself or herself any check, draft or other written order on
any bank or depository for the payment of money or its equivalent, being
informed, knowing or having reasonable cause for believing at the time of the
inducing, soliciting or the aiding and abetting that the maker or the drawer of
the check, draft or other written order has not sufficient funds on deposit in,
or an account with, the bank or depository with which to pay the same upon
presentation.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1997)  Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE
§ 130.070  DISRUPTING OF COURT OR COUNCIL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interrupt the proceedings of the
court of the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tem, Recorder or Town Council, or any meeting of
the Town Council, or be guilty of disorderly conduct therein, or to commit any
contempt of either.  Every person found guilty and sentenced for a contempt
shall be entitled to the right of appeal as is provided for in the Statutes of
South Carolina in appeals from the courts of municipalities and councils.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VI, § 6-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
§ 130.080  ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or assault and
battery upon any person in the town.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-1) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.081  CHILD AND HELPLESS PERSON NEGLECT.
   Any person having the legal custody of any child or helpless person, who
shall, without lawful excuse, refuse or neglect to provide proper care and
attention for the child or helpless person, so that the life, health, or
comfort of the child or helpless person is endangered or is likely to be
endangered shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-2) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.082  FAILING TO REMOVE DOORS FROM ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   Any person who abandons or discards any icebox, refrigerator, ice chest or
other type of airtight container of a capacity sufficient to contain any child
and who neglects prior to the abandonment to remove the door, lid or other
device for the closing therefrom shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be fines not more than $100 or imprisoned not more than 30
days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-3) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.083  LEAVING ABANDONED WELLS OPEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant to permit or allow any
abandoned well to remain open and unprotected, curbed or fenced in on any place
or premises owned or occupied in the state.  Any person convicted of allowing
any such abandoned well to remain open and unprotected, curbed or fenced in
shall be fined in the sum of $10 or imprisoned not more than 30 days.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-4) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
SECURITY ALARMS
§ 130.095  ALARM SYSTEMS WITH MONITOR AT TOWN HALL.
   The Prosperity Police Department shall respond, with all immediate speed, to
any and all alarm systems installed within the town limits.  The Department
shall take all necessary action to ensure the protection of the public in
responding and rendering assistance.  In the process of responding to the
alarms, the Police Department shall determine whether or not the alarm was
activated as the result of an emergency, accident, test, drill or other
situation.  The Chief of Police shall maintain records of responses to all
alarms and the reason for activation.
(1982 Code, Ch. 10, Art. VIII, § 8-1)  (Am. Ord. 9-17-1991) 
Penalty, see § 130.999
§ 130.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is required shall be subject to the fine in §
10.99.
   (B)   A person violating the provisions of §
130.058, upon conviction, for a first or second offense must be punished as
follows:  If the amount of the instrument is $500 or less, is triable in
municipal court.  If the amount of the instrument is over $500, it must be
tried in the court of general sessions or any other court having concurrent
jurisdiction. Not withstanding the provisions of this paragraph, a person
violating the provisions of §
130.058, upon conviction for a third or subsequent conviction may be tried in
either municipal court or in the court of general sessions.
      (1)   Convictions in municipal court are punishable as follows:  for a
first conviction by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $200 or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days; for a second or subsequent conviction
by a fine of $500 or imprisonment for 30 days.
      (2)   After a conviction under §
130.058 for a first offense, the defendant may, after 1 year from the date of
conviction, apply or cause someone acting on his or her behalf to apply, to the
court for an order expunging the records of the arrest and conviction.  This
does not apply to any crime classified as a felony.  If the defendant has had
no other convictions during the one year period following the conviction under
this ordinance, the court shall issue an order expunging the records.  No
person has any rights under this section more than 1 time.  After the
expungement, the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division is required to keep a
nonpublic record of the offense and the date of its expungement to ensure that
no person takes advantage of the rights permitted by this division more than
once. This nonpublic record is not subject to release under § 34-11-95, The
Freedom of Information Act, or any other provision of law except to those
authorized law or court officials who need to know this information in order to
prevent the rights afforded by this division from being taken advantage of more
than once.
(Ord. passed 6-17-1997)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
   
151.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
   
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building and Construction Codes
   
150.01   Purpose
   
150.02   International Building Code
   
150.03   Building permit
   
150.04   Fees
   
150.05   Conflicts between regulations
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
§ 150.01  PURPOSE.
   In the interest of the public safety, the well being of the citizens of
Prosperity and the development of the town regarding uniform rules and
regulations to control building construction and upkeep, the Town Council finds
it necessary to adopt certain building and construction codes.
(1982 Code, Ch. 5, Art. III, § 1-1)
§ 150.02  INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Town, for the purpose of regulating building
in the Town, the current edition of the code known as the International
Building Code to include Appendix G.  The Code is published separately in book
form and is adopted by reference, as though it were copied fully herein, saving
and excepting therefrom those sections specifically referenced as being amended
or modified.  The codes and standards referenced in the International Building
Code shall be considered part of the requirements of the code.  Those included
are: Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities; ICC Electrical Code,
International Energy Conservation Code, International Fire Code, International
Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, International Plumbing Code,
International Maintenance Code, and International Residential Code to include
Appendix E. A file of record of this code is maintained in the Planning
Department. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the
International Building Code adopted by this section and other applicable
provisions of the Code, state law or town ordinance, rules or regulations shall
prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2003)
§ 150.03  BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Building or repair contractors.  A person, firm or corporation shall
not erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve or convert any
building or structure, or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a
permit for the building or structure where the work is $1,001or more. 
Application for a building permit shall be made to the Building Inspections
Department. Work requiring a building permit shall not be commenced until the
permit holder or his or her agent shall have posted the building permit card in
a conspicuous place on the front of the premises.  The permit shall be
protected from the weather and in such position as to permit the Building
Inspection Department to conveniently make the required entries thereon.  This
permit card shall be maintained in such position by the permit holder until the
certificate of approval is issued by the Building Inspection Department.
   (B)   Gas contractors.  A permit shall be required for the new installation
or replacement and additions of piping to gas outlets, conversion burners,
floor furnaces, incinerators, boilers, control heating or air conditioning
units, vented wall furnaces, heaters, circulators and all other gas appliances
where the cost is $1001 or more.
   (C)   Plumbing contractors.  A plumbing permit shall be required for new
water and sewer lines, drainage, vent piping, vacuum breakers or backflow
protective devices, grease traps, installations of new fixtures, cesspools,
septic tanks and seepage pits or drainfield, water heaters and repair or
replacement of water, sewer and drain lines or vents where the cost of the work
is $1,001 or more.
   (D)   Electrical contractors.  An electrical permit shall be required for
installation of new services or the extension, repair or replacement of
existing service equipment and existing premises wiring systems where the cost
is $1,001 or more.
   (E)   HVAC contractors.  A permit shall be required for the new installation
or replacement and additions to HVAC systems where the cost is $1,001 or more.
   (F)   Contractors;   license prerequisite to engaging in business,
exceptions.  No person shall engage in the business of building (to include
repairs) in the town unless licensed under the provisions of this subchapter,
except as provided herein.  The person applying for a business license must be
certified in 1 of the following ways:
      (1)   If the cost of the improvements, repairs or new construction
exceeds $5,000, the person must be certified by the Residential Builders
Commission or as a general contractor by the State Contractors’ Licensing
Board.
      (2)   If the cost of the improvements or repairs is less that $5,000, the
person must be registered as a specialty contractor by the State Residential
Builders Commission.
      (3)   Applicants seeking to do business must present proof of the state
certification or registration at the time of application.
      (4)   An unlicensed general contractor that has been performing as a
general contractor in Newberry County for a period of not less than 10 years
may continue to perform as a general contractor if a licensed general
contractor in good standing certifies in writing on a form to be provided by
the County that the contractor is qualified and has been performing as a
general contractor for a minimum of 10 years in Newberry County.  The
requirements of the International Building Code and all amendments thereto
shall apply to the work performed by such unlicensed contractor following the
effective date of this subchapter.
   (G)   Gas.  No person shall engage in the business or practice of gas
contracting or service work in the town unless licensed as a gas contractor
under the provisions of this subchapter.  The person applying for a gas license
from the town must be licensed and certified by the state.
   (H)   Plumbers; license prerequisite to engage in business.  No person shall
engage in the business or practice of a plumbing contractor in the town unless
licensed as a plumber under the provisions of this subchapter.  The person
applying for the plumbing license must be licensed and certified by the state.
   (I)   Electricians; license prerequisite to engage in business.  No person
shall engage in the business or practice of electrical contracting or wiring in
the town unless licensed as an electrician under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (J)   HVAC; license prerequisite to engaging in business.  No person shall
engage in the business or practice of HVAC Contracting in the town unless
licensed as a licensed HVAC Contractor under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2003)
§ 150.04  FEES.
   (A)   Building and repair permit fees.
      (1)   The following permit fees shall be paid based upon the total
contractor’s cost of project:
 
Total Valuation      Fee
$1,000 or less       No fee unless inspection required, in which case a permit
                     for the minimum $5 fee is required
$1,001 to $5,000     $25 for the first $1,000 plus $5 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof
$5,001 to $50,000    $45 for the first $5,000, plus $5 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof
$50,001 to $100,000  $270 for the first $50,000, plus $4 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof.
$100,001 to $500,000 $470 for the first $100,000, plus $3 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof.
$500,001 and up      $1,670 for the first $500,000, plus $2 for each additional
                     $1,000 or fraction thereof.
 
      (2)   Inspections will not be made on projects where the cost of the
project is $5,000 or less.
   (B)   Reinspection fees.  Reinspection resulting from work not being ready
for inspection when the inspector is called to the job site or from work being
disapproved by the Building Inspector shall be $15 per inspection.
   (C)   Plan review fees.  When the valuation of the proposed construction
exceeds $5,000 and plan review is required, a plan review fee shall be paid. 
The plan review fee shall be equal to 1/2 the building permit fee.  The plan
review fee is in addition to the building permit fee.
(Ord. passed 3-18-2003)
§ 150.05  CONFLICTS BETWEEN REGULATIONS.
   In the event that any conflict exists or arises between the provisions of
these codes adopted by this subchapter and any other state law or town
ordinance, rule or regulation, the provisions of state law and the Code of
Prosperity shall prevail and be controlling.
(1982 Code, Ch. 5, Art. III, § 2)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Regulations adopted by reference
§ 151.01  REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s mobile home park regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 152:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Authority and adoption
   
152.02   Purposes
   
152.03   Title
   
152.04   Jurisdiction
§ 152.01  AUTHORITY AND ADOPTION.
   The comprehensive plan, including accompanying maps, are adopted upon the
recommendation of the Newberry County Joint Planning Commission after public
hearing pursuant to the authority granted in the South Carolina Local
Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310
et seq. and incorporated by reference in this code.
(Ord. passed 2-16-1999)
§ 152.02  PURPOSES.
   The purposes of the comprehensive plan are to guide the town in each of the
elements of the plan for development in accordance with existing and future
needs and promoting the health, safety, morals, convenience, order,
appearances, prosperity and general welfare of the community and for all those
purposes set forth in S.C. Code §§ 6-29-31 et seq.
(Ord. passed 2-16-1999)
§ 152.03  TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as “Prosperity Comprehensive Plan, 1998”.
(Ord. passed 2-16-1999)
§ 152.04  JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land and improvement
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-16-1999)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Zoning ordinance published separately
   
153.002   Authority and title
   
153.003   Jurisdiction and purposes
   
153.004   Definitions
Establishment of Districts and Zoning Map
   
153.015   Establishment of districts
   
153.016   District purpose
   
153.017   District boundaries on map
   
153.018   Official zoning map
   
153.019   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.020   Lot divided by district boundaries
General Regulations
   
153.035   Application of regulations
   
153.036   Street access required
   
153.037   Structures required to be on lots of record
   
153.038   Reduction of lot area prohibited
   
153.039   Annexation
   
153.040   Non-conforming structures or uses
   
153.041   Non-conforming lots of record
   
153.042   Temporary non-conforming uses
   
153.043   Structures in minimum required yards
   
153.044   Orientation of required yards
   
153.045   Erection of structures only upon lots of record
   
153.046   Lot coverage
   
153.047   Determination of solar skyspace easement
District Regulations
   
153.060   District use classifications
   
153.061   R-10 Single Family Residential District uses
   
153.062   R-10 Single Family Residential District regulations
   
153.063   R-7 General Residential District
   
153.064   R-7 General Residential District regulations
   
153.065   NC Neighborhood Commercial District uses
   
153.066   NC Neighborhood Commercial District regulations
   
153.067   CC Core Commercial District
   
153.068   CC Core Commercial District regulations
   
153.069   General Commercial District uses
   
153.070   GC General Commercial District regulations
   
153.071   LI Light Industrial District uses
   
153.072   LI Limited Industrial District regulations
   
153.073   BI Basic Industrial District uses
   
153.074   BI Basic Industrial District regulations
   
153.075   PD Planned Development District uses
   
153.076   PD Planned Development District regulations
   
153.077   PD Planned Development District application and review procedures
Supplemental Regulations
   
153.090   Sexually oriented businesses
   
153.091   Communications tower and antenna
   
153.092   Manufactured home parks
   
153.093   Child day care centers
   
153.094   Recreational facilities adjacent to residential uses
   
153.095   Satellite dish antennae
   
153.096   Bed and breakfast inns
Landscaping and Buffer Yard Regulations
   
153.110   Purpose for required landscaping
   
153.111   Buffer areas
   
153.112   Open space landscaping requirements
   
153.113   Tree protection
Parking
   
153.125   Off-street parking
   
153.126   Parking space requirements
   
153.127   Off-street loading and unloading spaces
   
153.128   Parking of recreation, commercial, and unlicensed vehicles
Signs
   
153.140   General provisions
   
153.141   Prohibited signs
   
153.142   Signs not required permit
   
153.143   Signs requiring permit
Administration
   
153.155   Zoning Administrator
   
153.156   Zoning permits
   
153.157   Certificates of zoning compliance
   
153.158   Violations
Appeals
   
153.170   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.171   Powers and duties of Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.172   Appeal to circuit court
Amendments
   
153.185   Initiation of amendment
   
153.186   Minimum district size
   
153.187   Amendment procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  ZONING ORDINANCE PUBLISHED SEPARATELY.
   The zoning ordinance shall be published in a separate volume, a copy of
which shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.002  AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   This zoning ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority granted in the South
Carolina Local Government Comprehensive Planning Enabling Act of 1994, S.C.
Code §§ 6-29-310, et seq. (1994 Supp.). This chapter may be cited as “Town of
Prosperity Zoning Ordinance, 1999.”
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.003  JURISDICTION AND PURPOSES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land and improvements
within the corporate limits of the Town of Prosperity, South Carolina. The
purposes of the zoning ordinance are to implement the land use element of the
comprehensive plan and for those purposes set forth in S.C. Code § 6-29-710.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.004  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation.
      (1)   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have their
customary and ordinary meanings as defined in a standard dictionary, except for
the specific words and phrases as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses. Singular
words shall include the plural, and plural words include the singular.
      (3)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, partnership, trust,
company, corporation, or any other entity.
      (4)   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is discretionary.
      (5)   The word “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied.”
      (6)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot or parcel.”
      (7)   The word “structure” includes the word “building.”
      (8)   References to NAICS codes shall mean those codes assigned to
businesses in the latest standard Industrial Classification Manual published by
the Office of Management and Budget. NAICS Codes are listed in the tables of
uses for each district as an aid in interpretation and determination of those
specific uses included in a general class of uses.
      (9)   Interpretation of “contiguous” as applied to lots or districts. The
word “contiguous” as applied to lots or districts shall be interpreted as
meaning “sharing a common boundary of 10 or more feet in length.”
      (10)   Interpretation of “on the premises of.” The phrase “on the
premises of,” as applied to accessory uses or structures shall be interpreted
to mean “on the same lot or on a contiguous lot in the same ownership.”
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms shall apply to this chapter as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure detached from a principal building
located on the same
lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal building or
use.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use of land or of a building or portion thereof
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the land or
building and located on the same lot with the principal use.
      ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. A facility that provides supervision, therapy, and
social development activities for impaired adults, licensed according to
regulations by DHEC.
      ALLEY. A service roadway providing a secondary means of public access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
      AUTHORITY, HORTICULTURAL/ LANDSCAPE. Any individual or source, licensed,
registered, decreed or otherwise acknowledged as capable of providing expert
information and reference in horticultural science and/or landscape design and
maintenance.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. (See NAICS Code 447110). Use involving the
sale of gasoline, lubricating oils, merchandise such as tires, batteries, auto
parts, minor repairs, and may include limited sale of groceries or carwashes,
but may not include storage of dismantled or wrecked vehicles for parts.
      BAR. Premises used primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the
drink for on-site consumption and where food may be available for consumption
on the premises as accessory to the principal use.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied house or portion thereof, where
short-term (no more than a week at a time) lodging rooms and meals are
provided. No more than 4 guest rooms can be available for accommodations and
breakfast service in such an establishment at any one time.
      BERM. Any hill or slope which represents a change of elevation of at
least 2 feet at a slope of between 25% and 50% and which is covered with an
appropriate stabilizing vegetation.
      BOARDING HOUSES. Same as ROOMING AND BOARDING HOUSES.
      BUFFER. Open spaces, landscaped area, fences, walls, berms, or any
combination thereof used to physically separate or screen one use or property
from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights, or other
nuisances.
      BUFFER YARD. A strip of land, improved by landscaping or fences, or both,
designed to mitigate the extent of higher intensity land uses on neighboring
lower intensity uses.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
      CHANGE OF USE. Any use that substantially differs from the previous use
of a building or land.
      CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. Any agency, institution, center, or other place,
however styled and whether operated under public auspices, as a private
business, or by an established religious denomination, in which are received
for temporary custodial care apart from their parents, part of the day or all
of the day or night, and upon any number of successive days, one or more
children not related to the persons providing such temporary custodial care.
      CHURCH. Any building or structure, or group of buildings or structures,
which by design and construction are primarily intended for conducting
organized religious services and associated accessory uses.
      CIVIC ORGANIZATION. See CLUB, LODGE, CIVIC OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION,
FRATERNITY, SORORITY.
      CLUB, LODGE, CIVIC OR FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION, FRATERNITY, SORORITY. An
incorporated or unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural,
religious, literary, political, or like activities, operated for the benefit of
its members and not open to the general public.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon
showing that such use in a specified location will comply with all the
conditions and standards for the location or operation of the use as specified
in the zoning ordinance and authorized by the approving agency.
      CORNER LOT. See LOT, CORNER.
      CURB CUT. The opening along the curb line at which point vehicles may
enter or leave the roadway.
      DECORATIVE CURBING. Parking or storage lot pavement curbing usually
constructed of stone or unit masonry and designed to control surface drainage
and serve as a barrier to vehicular traffic.
      DEVELOPED LOT. Any lot which has been developed with buildings or other
improvements, or for which development approval, such as a final plat approval,
a zoning permit, or a certificate or occupancy, had been issued before the
effective date of this chapter.
      DISPLAY AREA OR LOT. Any unenclosed area used for the display of
merchandise.
      DISTRICT. A part, zone, or geographic area within which the provisions
and regulations of this chapter apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land.
      DRINKING PLACE. (See NAICS Code 722410) Establishment primarily engaged
in retail sale of alcoholic drinks for consumption on premises. Sale of food
may account for a substantial portion of receipts.
      DRIVE-THRU RESTAURANT. Any eating or drinking establishment which, by its
structural design, site characteristics, or manner of food service encourages
consumption of food or beverages in automobiles on the premises or upon public
streets adjacent thereto.
      DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof that is used exclusively for
human habitation.
      DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building containing 3 or more dwelling units,
including units that are located one over the other.
      DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY DETACHED. A building containing not more than 1
dwelling unity, not physically attached to any other principal structure, and
specifically excluding mobile homes.
      DWELLING, TWO FAMILY DETACHED. A building on a single lot containing 2
dwelling units, each of which is totally separated from the other by an
unpierced wall extending from the ground to roof or an unpierced ceiling and
floor extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common
stairwell exterior to both dwelling units. This 2 family detached dwelling is
not physically attached to any other principal structure.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, designed, occupied, or intended for
occupancy as a separate living quarter, with cooking, sleeping, and sanitary
facilities provided within the dwelling unit for the exclusive use of a single
family maintaining a household.
      EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for use by the public, a corporation, or another person or
entity.
      ENLARGEMENT. An increase in the size of an existing structure or use,
including physical size of the property, building, parking, and other
improvements.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided
that unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain over 3 persons, but further provided that domestic servants or required
medical personnel employed on the premises may be housed within the single
dwelling unit without being counted as a family or families.
      FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from the
centerline of a wall separating 2 buildings, but excluding any space where the
floor-to-ceiling height is less than 6 feet.
      FOOTCANDLE. The unit of illumination when the foot is the unit of length.
      FOSTER HOMES. A foster home provides substitute family care for a child
or children by a family group consisting of a male and female foster parent
other than the child's own parents, blood relatives or legal guardian, in
return for a monetary remuneration for such care. A foster home must be
authorized or licensed by the Newberry County Department of Social Services,
Alston Wilkes, church sponsored homes, and others to be considered as a foster
home under the provisions of this chapter, and any unauthorized or unlicensed
use shall be prohibited. In no case shall more than 2 foster children be housed
in a single bedroom or room designated for sleeping purposes. There shall be no
more than 5 foster children in a home.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION, FRATERNITY. See CLUB, LODGE, CIVIC OR FRATERNAL
ORGANIZATION, FRATERNITY, SORORITY.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. See SIGN, FREESTANDING.
      GARAGE. A deck, building, or parking structure, or part thereof, used, or
intended to be used for the parking and storage of vehicles.
      GRADING. Any stripping, cutting, filling, or stockpiling of earth or
land, including the land in its cut or filled condition, to create new grades.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or structure from the exterior face of exterior walls, or
from the centerline of a wall separating 2 buildings, but excluding any space
where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than 6 feet.
      GROUND COVER. Any plant material which serves to prevent soil erosion by
covering large areas of ground, and which does not grow beyond 12 inches in
height.
      GROUP HOME. A nonprofit or for-profit boarding home for the sheltered
care of 4 or more persons with special needs, which, in addition to providing
food and shelter, may also provide some combination of personal care, social or
counseling services, and transportation, unless otherwise specified with
another definition in this chapter.
      GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A single lot of record upon which is erected
more than one building containing dwelling units, and all the structures
thereon; or a single lot upon which is erected a single structure designed to
contain more than 4 dwelling units on the first floor level thereof or designed
to contain more than 8 dwelling units throughout; except that high rise
apartments are not defined as group housing developments.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, or trade customarily, and
commonly, carried out by an occupant in a dwelling unity as a secondary use
which is clearly incidental and subordinate to the residential character of the
dwelling unit.
      HOTEL. (See NAICS Code 721110). A building in which lodging for pay is
offered to public, with or without meals, for transient or permanent guests,
including motel or tourist court containing five or more guest rooms.
      IN-HOME ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. A facility that provides supervision,
therapy, and social development activities for no more than 6 impaired adults,
in the home of the proprietor, licensed according to regulations by DHEC.
      IN-HOME CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. An in the home child day care center,
which is operated by a resident of the home and in which are received for
temporary custodial care apart from their parents, part of the day or all of
the day or night, and upon any number of successive days, up to 6 children, not
related to the persons providing such temporary custodial care.
      INTENSITY OF USE. The number of dwelling units per acre for a residential
development and the amount or degree of activity for commercial and industrial
development.
      JUNK. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris, whether or not
stored, for sale or in the process of being dismantled, destroyed, processed,
salvaged, stored, baled, disposed, or other use or disposition.
      JUNK, SALVAGE, SCRAP, OR WRECKING YARDS. (See NAICS Code 423930). Any use
involving storage or processing of inoperable, disused, dismantled, or wrecked
vehicles, equipment, or machinery or the storage or processing of scrap metal,
waste paper, rags, food processing wastes, construction wastes, industrial
wastes, secondhand building materials, or other scrap, salvage, waste, or junk
materials.
      KENNEL. A commercial establishment in which dogs or domesticated animals
are housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained, or sold, all for a fee or
compensation.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
developed, or built upon.
      LOT AREA. The total area within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any
street right-of- way.
      LOT, CORNER. Any lot which is bounded on 2 or more consecutive sides by
road rights-of-way which intersect at an angle of 135 degrees or less.
      LOT FRONTAGE. The front of an interior lot shall be construed to be the
portion nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on
corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage and yards shall be provided upon that basis. The phrase
“street frontage” shall be interpreted to have the same meaning as the phrase
“lot frontage.”
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, with only 1 frontage on a
street.
      LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides 1 lot from another
lot or from a public or private street or any other public space.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of triangular or otherwise irregularly shaped lots, a line 10
feet in length entirely within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance
from the front lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot defined by plat or described by metes and bounds
which has been duly recorded with the Clerk of County.
      LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE. A through lot that is not accessible from 1 of the
parallel or nonintersecting streets upon which it fronts.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot that fronts upon 2 parallel streets or that fronts
upon 2 streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear
lot lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of the required
front yard, provided however, that width between side lot lines at their
foremost points (where they intersect with the street line) shall not be less
than 80% of the required lot width; in the case of lots fronting on a cul-de-
sac, the width between side lot lines at their foremost points shall not be
less than 20 feet.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A lot providing rented parking space for 5 or
more manufactured homes used for dwelling units, including service buildings
and facilities. Manufactured home sale or storage lots for unoccupied units are
not manufactured home parks.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING. Factory-built, single-family structures that meet
the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standard Act (42 U.S.C.
Section 5401), commonly known as the HUD Code.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. (See NAICS Code 531130). A building or group of buildings
on a fenced, controlled access lot which contain individual locked compartments
for storage of personal property.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure manufactured prior to June 15, 1976 or
manufactured after June 15, 1976 without certification of compliance with HUD
standards pursuant to S.C. Code § 40-29-70, which is a movable or portable
dwelling unit over 30 feet in length constructed to be towed on its own
chassis, without permanent foundation, consisting of a single or 2 or more
connected components. The term does not include prefabricated, modular or
unitized dwelling on a permanent foundation, travel trailer, camper or similar
recreation unit.
      MODULAR BUILDING. A structure consisting of 2 or more prefabricated
components designed to be transported to a lot and placed on a permanent
foundation, and which is certified by the South Carolina Building Codes Council
as conforming to the Southern Building Code standards for site built units. A
mobile home, house trailer, or manufactured home is not a modular building.
      MOTEL. (See NAICS Code 721110). A building or buildings in which lodging,
with or without meals, is offered to the public for consumption, including a
hotel, tourist court, or inn.
      MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. See DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.
      NON-CONFORMING. A term applied to lots, structures, uses of land or
structures, and characteristics or use of land or structures which were lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which are prohibited by
this chapter or which are not in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. For more details see §
153.040.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
      OFF-STREET LOADING. Designated areas located adjacent to buildings where
trucks may load and unload cargo.
      OFF-STREET PARKING. An area adequate for parking an automobile with room
for opening doors on both sides, together with properly related access to a
public street arranged so that no maneuvering incidental to parking shall not
be on any public street and so that an automobile may be parked or unparked
therein without moving any other automobile.
      OPEN SPACE. Unless otherwise defined in this chapter, open space is any
parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved and set aside,
dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or enjoyment or
for the use and enjoyment of owners, occupants, and their guests of land
adjoining or neighboring such open space.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that encompasses 1 or more underlying
zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required by the
underlying zone.
      OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development of land.
      PARCEL. A contiguous lot or tract of land owned and recorded as the
property of the same persons or controlled by a single entity.
      PARK. An area or facility intended to be used for recreation, exercise,
sports, or similar activities, or an area intended to enhance the enjoyment of
natural features or natural beauty, but specifically excluding commercially
operated amusement parks.
      PARKING AREA. Any public or private area, under or outside of a building
or structure, designed and used for parking motor vehicles including parking
lots, garages, private driveways, and legally designated areas of public
streets.
      PARKING LOT. A public or private open lot for parking motor vehicles as a
principal use or as an accessory use to a commercial use.
      PERMITTED USE. A use permitted outright by district regulations.
      PERSONAL SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in providing services
involving the care of a person or his or her personal goods or apparel. These
include the following: laundries, beauty and barber shops, shoe repair, and
health clubs.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. An area of land, in which a variety of
housing types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are
accommodated in a pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such
as lot sizes and setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply
under these regulations. The procedure for approval of such development
contains requirements in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as
building design principles, and landscaping plans. See §
153.073 for more details.
      PLAT.
         (a)   A map representing a tract of land showing the boundaries and
location of individual properties and streets; and/or
         (b)   A map of a subdivision or site plan.
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. A structure or use which is significant or
primary rather than accessory.
      PROHIBITED USE. A use that is not permitted in a zone district.
      PUBLIC HEARING. A meeting announced and advertised in advance and open to
the public, with the public given an opportunity to talk and participate.
      RESIDENCE. A dwelling.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served,
and consumed primarily within the principal building.
      RETAIL SALES. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to
the general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription, or condemnation and intended to be occupied by a
road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or gas pipeline,
water line, sanitary storm sewer, and other similar uses.
      ROAD FRONTAGE. Any strip of land adjacent to a public road right-of-way.
      ROOMING AND BOARDING HOUSE. (See NAICS Code 721310). Any dwelling, other
than a hotel or motel, in which 3 or more persons who are not members of the
owner's or operator's family are housed or lodged in rooms used or intended to
be used for living and sleeping but not for cooking or eating purposes, for
compensation, with or without meals being provided. Any dwelling in which such
accommodations are offered in 4 or more rooms shall be considered to be a hotel
or motel.
      SALVAGE YARD. Same as JUNK YARD.
      SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. A device incorporating a reflective surface that
is solid, open mesh, or bar configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish,
cone, horn, or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit and/or receive
radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based
uses. This definition is meant to include but not be limited to what are
commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, television reception only
satellite dish antennas, and satellite microwave antennas.
      SCRAP YARD. Same as JUNK YARD.
      SCREEN FENCE or WALL. For the purposes of the landscaping requirements,
any structure which stands at least 6 feet high at its lowest point, is between
67% and 100% opaque, and is designed and constructed as a permanent improvement
for the purpose of blocking view.
      SCREENING. A method of visually shielding or obscuring 1 abutting or
nearby structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms, or densely
planted vegetation.
      SETBACK LINE. The setback line is the same as the depth or width of any
required yard. Note that such line defines the minimum distance between any
structure and an adjacent lot boundary and is not necessarily the same as the
building line, which is the distance between the actual structure and an
adjacent lot boundary.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. See §
153.090 for definitions and regulations.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned,
constructed, and managed as a total entity, with customer and employee parking
provided on-site, provision for goods delivery separated from customer access,
aesthetic considerations and protection from the elements, and landscaping and
signage in accordance with an approved plan.
      SHRUB. Any hard-wooded perennial plant of a species which normally
reaches a height between 12 inches and 8 feet, and which is between 80% and
100% opaque, at maturity.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display, or structure, or part thereof, which
is used to advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an
object, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event,
or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, design, symbols,
fixtures, colors, illumination, or projected images, with certain exceptions as
enumerated in §
153.140.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. Any sign which relates in its subject matter to
products, accommodations, services, or activities sold or offered elsewhere
than upon the premises on which such sign is located, and as further defined in
§
153.140.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity or service sold, offered, or manufactured or to an
entertainment offered on the premises where the sign is located, and as further
defined in §
153.140.
      SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign listing the tenants or occupants of a building or
group of buildings and that may indicate their respective professions or
business activities, and as further defined in §
153.126.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is permanently affixed to the ground and
which is not a part of a building or other structure.
      SIGN, GROUND OR MONUMENT-TYPE. A freestanding sign which extends from the
ground or is attached directly to the ground generally for the entire length of
its bottom sign face dimension or which has a support which places the bottom
of the sign less than 12 inches from the ground.
      SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. Any sign that was legally in existence prior to
this chapter and made illegal by this chapter.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign that is not permanent, affixed to a building,
structure, or the ground.
      SIGN, PYLON. A freestanding sign supported by one or more structures or
poles that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground, or other surface and
otherwise separated from the ground more than 12 inches by air, generally over
7 feet in height, and that is independent from any building or other structure.
      SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown
the existing and proposed conditions of the lot, including topography,
vegetation, drainage, flood plains, wetlands, and waterways; landscaping and
open spaces; walkways; means of ingress and egress; circulation; utility
services; structures and buildings; signs and lighting; berms, buffers, and
screening devices; surrounding development; and any other information that
reasonably may be required in order that an informed decision can be made by
the approving authority.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A complete design or assembly consisting of a solar
energy collector, an energy storage facility (where used), and components for
the distribution of transformed energy (to the extent they cannot be used
jointly with a conventional energy system). Passive solar energy systems are
included in this definition.
      SOLAR SKY SPACE EASEMENT. A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition, or other property interest in any land or other instrument executed
by, or on behalf of any landowner that protects the solar skyspace of an
actual, proposed, or designated solar energy collector at a described location
by forbidding or limiting activities or land uses that interfere with access to
solar energy.
      SOLAR SKY SPACE. The space between a solar energy collector and the sun
that must be free of obstructions that shade the collector to an extent which
precludes its cost effective operation.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use permitted in a particular zoning district upon
showing to the Board of Appeals that such use in a specified location will
comply with all the conditions and standards for the location or operation of
the use as specified in this chapter and authorized by the Board of Appeals.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare designed to provide the principal means of
access to abutting property, or designed to serve as a roadway for vehicular
travel, or both, but excluding alleys.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the
ground, including for purposes of this chapter buildings, mobile homes, travel
trailers, signs, swimming pools, fences, and antennae, but excluding from
definition as structures minor landscaping features such as ornamental pools,
planting boxes, bird baths, paved surfaces, walkways, driveways, recreational
equipment, flagpoles, and mailboxes.
      THOROUGHFARE. Any major arterial road; one of the principal routes into
and through the community.
      TRAVEL OR CAMPING VEHICLE. A vehicular portable structure designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel or recreational use.
      YARD. A required open space unoccupied and unobstructed by structures
except those specifically permitted.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard situated between the front building line and the
front lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. A yard situated between the rear building line and the rear
lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard situated between the side building line and the side
lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
      ZONE. A specifically delineated area or district within which uniform
regulations and requirements govern the use, placement, spacing, and size of
land and buildings.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Town Administrator to
administer this chapter. This person may or may not be an employee of the town.
(Ord. passed - - )
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND
ZONING MAP
§ 153.015  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following zoning districts are hereby established:
District Uses Minimum Lot
District Uses                         Minimum Lot
R-10     Single Family Residential    10,000 sq. ft.
R-7      General Residential          7,000 sq. ft.
NC       Neighborhood Commercial      Commercial use: None
                                      Residential use: 7,000 sq. ft.
CC       Core Commercial              None
GC       General Commercial           None
LI       Light Industrial             None
BI       Basic Industrial             None
PD       Planned Development District None
 
   (B)   No amendment shall be initiated which would create a new zoning
district with an area of less than 2 acres. The minimum does not apply to the
extension of an existing district, or the addition of NC districts adjacent to
CC or GC districts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.016  DISTRICT PURPOSE.
   (A)   The zoning districts established in this ordinance are for the
purposes of guiding development in accordance with existing and future needs
and promoting public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, appearance,
prosperity, and general welfare, and all of the purposes set forth in S.C. Code
§ 6-29-710. The following statement of intent shall be used in interpretation
and application of the district regulations.
   (B)   The residential district regulations are designed to encourage a
stable and healthy environment for residential purposes, and to discourage
encroachment by commercial, industrial, or other uses adversely affecting the
residential character of the district.
      (1)   R-10, Single Family Residential District. R-10 districts are
intended to be single family residential areas with detached units and low
population densities. Use regulations allow limited non-residential use which
are compatible with the character of the district.
      (2)   R-7, General Residential District. This district is intended for
medium density residential purposes, including single family detached unity,
duplexes, multi-family units and manufactured homes on individual lots. Mobile
home parks are permitted as special exceptions upon approval of the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Certain uses to serve governmental, recreational and religious
needs are permitted.
      (3)   NC, Neighborhood Commercial District. This district is intended for
commercial and service uses oriented primarily to serving needs of persons who
live or work in nearby area. R-7 residential uses are permitted. Commercial
uses permitted are intended to be relatively small in size and service area.
      (4)   CC, Core Commercial District. This district is intended to
accommodate a variety of general commercial and non-residential uses
characterized primarily by retail, wholesale, office, and service
establishments in the central business area. Residential uses are permitted on
upper levels of commercial structures.
      (5)   GC, General Commercial District. This district is intended to
accommodate business uses along outlying traffic arteries primarily engaged in
sale of durable goods, equipment, services, and recreational facilities. All
uses permitted in a CC Core Commercial District are permitted.
      (6)   LI, Limited Industrial District. This district is intended to
permit light industrial and commercial uses which do not create nuisances by
noise or emissions beyond the premises.
      (7)   BI, Basic Industrial District. This district is established for a
wide variety of industrial uses involving research, manufacturing, processing,
assembly, storage, landfill, mining, and all uses permitted in the LI District.
      (8)   PD, Planned Development District:. This district designates an area
for which an approved development plan constitutes the district regulations. It
is intended to utilize the factors of efficiency, economy, flexibility,
creative site design, improved appearance, compatibility of mixed uses, maximum
benefits from open space, safe and efficient vehicular and pedestrian access
for a development characterized by a unified site design for mixed uses. A
planned development district may be predominately residential or predominately
commercial. A planned development district may be proposed in any part of town.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.017  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ON MAP.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter are
hereby established on a map entitled “Zoning Map of the Town of Prosperity,
S.C.,” which map is declared to be part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.018  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The official zoning map shall be maintained in the Office of the Zoning
Administrator. A duplicate official zoning map shall be kept in the office of
the Town Clerk. All zoning district boundaries shall be clearly shown on the
zoning map, and amendments shall be recorded immediately after adoption. The
official copies of the zoning map shall be dated and attested by the Town
Clerk, and shall be available for public inspection. The official zoning map
and any amendments adopted by Town Council shall constitute the final authority
for determination of zoning district boundaries. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make unauthorized changes to the zoning map.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.019  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zoning district, the
following general rules of interpretation shall apply. It is the duty of the
Zoning Administrator to interpret the location of zoning district boundaries.
An appeal from an interpretation of finding of the Zoning Administrator may be
taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals as specified in §§
153.170et seq.
   (A)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following the center
lines of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such center
lines.
   (B)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot
lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   District boundaries indicated as approximately following town limits
shall be construed as following such town limits.
   (D)   District boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   District boundaries indicated as following center lines of stream beds
or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   (F)   Supplementary floodplain and floodway boundaries indicated as
following the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 100 year floodplain line or the
floodway line shall be construed to follow such lines.
   (G)   District boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to, or
extensions of features indicated in subsections above shall be so construed and
at such distance therefrom as indicated on the official copy of the zoning map.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official copy of the zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (H)   Where a district boundary line as appearing on the zoning map divides
a lot in single ownership at the time of adoption of this chapter or subsequent
amendment into 2 different zoning districts, the district least restrictive in
the opinion of the owner shall be deemed to apply to the whole thereof.
Provided however, that in no case shall a zoning district boundary line
dividing said lot be extended into either district in excess of 50 feet beyond
the district boundary line dividing said lot.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.020  LOT DIVIDED BY DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   No structure or accessory use may be placed, structurally altered, or have a
change in use where the structure or use is or would be included within 2 or
more zoning districts unless such structure or use conforms to the requirements
of all applicable district regulations.
(Ord. passed - - )
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.035  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Within each district, the regulations set forth by this chapter shall
apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. Wherever the requirements
of this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive, or that
imposing the higher standards shall govern. Unless deed restrictions,
covenants, or other contracts directly involve the town as a party in interest,
the town shall have no administrative responsibility for enforcing such deed
restrictions or covenants.
   (C)   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building, structure, or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered unless in conformity
with the regulations specified in this chapter for the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.036  STREET ACCESS REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided, no building shall be located,
used or occupied on a lot without direct vehicular and pedestrian access to a
public street.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.037  STRUCTURES REQUIRED TO BE ON LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any new structure erected after the effective date of this chapter shall be
on a lot of record.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.038  REDUCTION OF LOT AREA PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing on the effective date of this chapter shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the applicable district minimum
requirements. New lots or yards shall meet the applicable district minimum
requirements.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.039  ANNEXATION.
   The zoning district shall be designated for property annexed by ordinance as
follows:
   (A)   Town Council, after receiving a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, shall specify an interim zoning district classification or
classifications in the annexation ordinance. Such classification or
classifications shall become effective upon the effective date of the
annexation and permits for permitted uses may be issued.
   (B)   If the zoning district classification recommended by the planning
commission for the annexed area is different in character and standards from
the existing county zoning district of the area,
the planning commission report shall contain the reasons for the
recommendation, and Town Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
annexation and proposed interim zoning of the property to be annexed.
   (C)   Notice of public hearing shall be published in the same manner as
required for rezoning.
   (D)   Immediately after the effective date of the annexation, the Zoning
Administrator shall initiate zoning amendment procedures to confirm or
establish the appropriate zoning classification for the annexed area.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.040  NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES OR USES.
   Non-conforming structures or land uses are declared to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts established by this chapter. It is the intent
of this chapter to allow nonconformities to continue until they are removed,
but not to encourage their survival. The lawful use of any structure or land on
the effective date of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
regulations:
   (A)   A non-conforming use, structure, or characteristic of use shall not be
changed to any other non-conforming use, structure, or characteristic of use
unless the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that the new use, structure, or
activity is more in character with the uses permitted in the district, in which
case the Zoning Board of Appeals may require appropriate conditions and
safeguards in accord with the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   The minimum yard requirements of this chapter shall not be construed
as prohibiting the conversion of an existing building which does not meet the
minimum yard requirements to another permitted use, so long as no further
encroachment is made into the exiting yards.
   (C)   A nonconforming structure shall not be demolished and rebuilt as a
non-conforming structure.
   (D)   A nonconforming use, structure, or characteristic of use shall not be
extended, enlarged, or intensified except in conformity with this chapter,
provided however, that any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any
parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at
the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   (E)   A non-conforming use, or characteristic of use, shall not be
reestablished after vacancy, abandonment, or discontinuance for any period of 6
consecutive months, except where division (F) applies.
   (F)   A non-conforming structure shall not be rebuilt, altered, or repaired
except in conformity with this chapter after sustaining damage or necessitating
repair exceeding 50% of the replacement cost of the structure at the time of
damage or wear, provided that any permitted reconstruction shall begin within 6
months from the time of damage or notice of wear and shall be completed within
12 months after the issuance of a building permit.
   (G)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use,
work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-
bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing provided that the cubic content of
the building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter
shall not be increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public
safety, upon order of such official.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.041  NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Single lots. In any district in which single family dwellings are
permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter, a single family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be
erected on any single lot of record on the effective date of this chapter,
provided that setback requirements of the district are met.
   (B)   Adjoining lots. If 2 or more adjoining lots with continuous frontage
are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption or amendment of this
chapter and such lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width, or
area requirements of the district in which they are located, such groups of
lots shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted
size and the lot or lots in one ownership shall be subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.042  TEMPORARY NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A temporary use permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator for an
appropriate period of time not to exceed 12 month increments for non-conforming
buildings, structures, or uses incidental to building construction or land
development or deemed to be generally beneficial, provided that the owner of
such temporary non-conforming use agrees to remove the temporary non-conforming
use upon expiration of the permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.043  STRUCTURES IN MINIMUM REQUIRED YARDS.
   The general definition of YARDS as set forth in §
153.004 states that yards are unoccupied and unobstructed by a structure or
portion of a structure
from 30 inches above the finished grade level of the ground upward. However,
the general definition shall be construed subject to the following exceptions
and interpretations:
   (A)   Those objects which are excluded from the definition of a STRUCTURE
under §
153.004 above shall not be subject to regulation under interpretation of the
definition of YARD.
   (B)   Steps and open porches (without roofs) shall be allowed in any
required yard.
   (C)   Screening walls and fences over 30 inches in height that substantially
impede vision may be permitted in a required yard as a special exception,
however, screening walls and fences not over seven feet in height are permitted
outright in side and rear yards.
   (D)   Eaves, cornices, gutters, and other minor architectural features
projecting less than 18 inches from the main portion of a building shall be
allowed to project into any yard.
   (E)   In GC, LI, and BI districts, structures and devices incidental to
servicing, and roofs over such structures and devices are permitted within
required front yards, provided that they do not constitute a substantial
impediment to visibility across such yards which would contribute to the
creation of traffic hazards, and further provided that servicing operations in
connection therewith can be conducted so as not to interfere with public use of
adjacent sidewalks or public streets.
   (F)   Retaining walls in excess of 30 inches in height may be permitted as a
special exception in any yard; however, retaining walls that do not project
more than 30 inches above the grade level at the property lines of adjoining
lots are permitted outright.
   (G)   Signs are permitted to encroach upon required yards in certain
instances as set forth in §§
153.140et seq.
   (H)   Screening between commercial or industrial uses and lots zoned
residentially, as required by this chapter.
   (I)   Apparatus needed for the operation of active and passive solar energy
systems, including but not limited to overhangs, movable insulating walls and
roofs, the attached solar collectors, reflectors, and piping.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.044  ORIENTATION OF REQUIRED YARDS.
   In interpretation of requirements related to establishment of required
yards, the Zoning Administrator shall apply the following interpretation to the
orientation of such yards:
   (A)   Through lots. In the case of through lots, unless the prevailing front
yard pattern on adjoining lots indicates otherwise, front yards shall be
provided on all frontages. Where one of the front yards that would normally be
required on a through lot is not in keeping with the prevailing yard pattern,
the Zoning Administrator may waive the requirement for the normal front yard
and substitute therefore a special yard requirement which shall not exceed the
average of the yards existing on adjacent lots.
   (B)   Corner lots with 2 frontages. In the case of corner lots with 2
frontages, a front yard of the required depth shall be provided on the frontage
of the street having the higher traffic volumes. Where the traffic volumes on
both streets are approximately equal, the required depth shall be provided on
the street frontage having the minimum lot width. A second front yard of half
the depth required generally for front yards in the district shall be provided
on the other frontage.
   (C)   Corner lots with more than 2 frontages. In the case of corner lots
with more than 2 frontages, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the front
yard requirements, subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   At least 1 front yard shall be provided having full depth required
generally in the district:
      (2)   No other front yard on such lot shall have less than half the full
depth required generally.
   (D)   Appropriateness of orientation. Notwithstanding the above, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that the most appropriate orientation for any
required yard is different from the orientation as set forth above in such
instances that it appears that such different orientation will further the
intent of this chapter. When a structure is to be built which will contain more
than one dwelling unit, the orientation of required yards shall be based upon
both the orientation of the lot and the orientation of the structure. The
Zoning Administrator may impose an orientation of yards different from the
orientation set forth in this section and elsewhere in this chapter subject
only to appeal of such decision to the Board of Appeals as an appeal from an
administrative decision of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.045  ERECTION OF STRUCTURES ONLY UPON LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any new structure erected after the effective date of this chapter shall be
erected only upon a lot of record.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.046  LOT COVERAGE.
   The area of the lot, which when viewed directly from above, would be covered
by all principal accessory buildings and structures. A portion of the principal
or accessory building, or any terrace, balcony, breeze way, porch or portion
thereof, or any solar collection device or related apparatus, not included as
floor area of the building, by definition shall not be included in computing
lot coverage.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.047  DETERMINATION OF SOLAR SKYSPACE EASEMENT.
   The solar skyspace easement defined in §
153.004 may be computed by using the designated minimum yard requirement in
each zoning district in coordination with the information on skyspace and
shadow data in Appendix 1 of Protecting Polar Access for Residential
Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 1979.
(Ord. passed - - )
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.060  DISTRICT USE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   General Regulations in §§
153.035et seq., District Regulations in §§
153.060et seq., and Supplemental Regulations in §§
153.090et seq. are applicable in all of the following classes of uses:
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses listed in the district use tables in
this division are permitted outright.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses in the district use tables are
permitted by the Zoning Administrator without further review upon compliance
with conditions specified in the tables.
   (C)   Special exceptions. Special exceptions are permitted after review and
approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals upon compliance with general conditions
in the regulations.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.061  R-10 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT USES.
 
R-10 PERMITTED USES  NAICS CODE    NAICS DESCRIPTION    PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
Single family
dwelling (other than 814110        Private households   2 per dwelling unit.
mobile home or
manufactured home).
                                   Other general gov.;
Government building  921190 922190 Other justice,       1 per 200 square feet
or facility.         921130        public order, and    of gross floor area.
                                   safety; Public
                                   finance.
Non-commercial
horticulture or
agriculture, not     111998        All other misc. crop None.
including the                      farming.
keeping of poultry
or animals.
Accessory uses on same lot with principal use, as follows:
   (1)   Private garage for motor vehicles;
   (2)   Open parking area for 2 motor vehicles per dwelling unit, may be used
for 1 commercial vehicle up to 1 ton in capacity per dwelling unit;
   (3)   Shed for storage of building or lot maintenance equipment;
   (4)   Private kennel for not more than 3 dogs or 3 cats with minimum 6 foot
fence for exterior kennel;
   (5)   Private swimming pool, including deck; bath house, or cabana; boat
dock;
   (6)   Disaster shelter;
   (7)   Private garden; greenhouse or slathouse up to 8 feet high;
   (8)   Private tennis; outdoor recreation and picnic facilities;
   (9)   Garage sales, provided that the provisions hereof are met.
For Bed and Breakfast Inns, see Special Exceptions.
 
R-10 CONDITIONAL USES                                                           NAICS     NAICS         PARKING
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)                CODE      DESCRIPTION   SPACES
                                                                                                        REQUIRED
Church, synagogue, temple, or place of worship, including religious education                           1 space
building, parsonage or parish office, off-street parking for members and                                for each
visitors without pay, and recreation facilities, provided all following                   Religious     4 seats
conditions are met:                                                                8131organizations in main
(1)   Use is conducted in a permanent structure;                                                     assembly
(2)   Minimum 20,000 square foot lot;                                                                room.
(3)   Building setback 25 ft. from residential Property.
Public utility substation, water tower, (for communication towers, see special
exceptions) provided all following conditions are met:                                    Electric,
(1)   Structures are enclosed by 6 foot fence;                                         gas, water,
(2)   No office, commercial operation, or storage of vehicles or equipment is221118    sanitary      1 space.
permitted;                                                                                services
(3)   A landscape strip at least 5 feet wide is planted and maintained along
exterior lot lines.
Cemetery, provided all following conditions are met:
(1)   Minimum 5 acre lot;
(2)   No crematorium or dwelling except caretaker;                                     Cemeteries
(3)   Front yard setback greater of 70 feet from center of street or 10 feet 812220    and           None.
from street right-of-way line;                                                            Crematories
(4)   Non-illuminated sign not over 30 square feet in area to 10 feet in
height.
Temporary contractor office and equipment shed, provided that all following               New single-   1 for
conditions are met:                                                                       family        each 300
(1)   Used in connections with construction on premises;                     236115    housing       square
(2)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;                         236118    const.;       feet of
(3)   For term up to 1 year, may be renewed once.                                      Residential   office
                                                                                          remodelers.   area.
Customary home occupation in single-family dwelling, provided all of the following conditions are met:
(1)   Conducted inside dwelling by resident family members;
(2)   Utilizes not more than 25% of total dwelling floor area;
(3)   No change in exterior appearance of dwelling;
(4)   No outside display of products;
(5)   No sale of products except those made on premises or consumables incidental to a service;
(6)   Create no health or safety hazard, noise, offensive emissions, traffic hazard, unsightly conditions or
nuisance;
(7)   Activity is not visibly evident outside dwelling, except for a wall-mounted sign not over 4 square feet in
area.
 
R-10 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                        NAICS                     PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after hearing)                        CODE   NAICS DESCRIPTION  SPACES
                                                                                                         REQUIRED
                                                                                                         Number and
Unlighted, regulation-size or par three golf course, provided the Board of                               location
Zoning Appeals determines:                                                                               set by
(1)   Adequate off street parking is provided;                                                        Board;
(2)   No building permitted except maintenance shed, clubhouse (including                             minimum: 1
limited eating facility and pro shop), cart storage, restrooms, rain shelters, 713910 Golf courses and   for each
and gate house;                                                                       country clubs      200 square
(3)   No permitted building or parking facility shall be within 300 feet of a                         feet of
dwelling;                                                                                                building
(4)   Adequate provisions for access and traffic safety;                                              area, plus
(5)   The use is compatible with the district.                                                        2 for each
                                                                                                         golf hole.
Private kindergarten or pre-school nursery, provided the Board of Zoning
Appeals determines:                                                                   Elementary and
(1)   Applicable state regulations are met;                                 611110 Secondary schools; 1 for each
(2)   Minimum 20,000 square foot lot;                                       624410 Child day care     employee.
(3)   Structures minimum 25 feet from residential property;                        services.
(4)   Conditions imposed for safety, traffic, impact on district;
(5)   The use is compatible with the district.
Cluster single-family development, provided that the Board of Zoning Appeals
determines:
(1)   Detached single-family units on minimum of 2 acres;                                             2 for each
(2)   Not exceed density per entire tract; may exceed density per acre;     814110 Private households dwelling
(3)   Lot requirements per house may be waived;                                                       unit.
(4)   Subdivision regulations are met;
(5)   Adequate provisions for access and traffic safety;
(6)   The use is compatible with the district.
                                                                                                         Location
                                                                                                         set by
                                                                                                         Board;
Conversion of existing dwelling to bed and breakfast, with provisions outlined        Bed and breakfast  minimum: 1
in §                                                                          721191 inns               for each
153.096.                                                                                                 guest room
                                                                                                         plus 2 for
                                                                                                         resident
                                                                                                         innkeeper.
Communication towers, see §                                                          Wireless
153.091.                                                                       517312 telecommunications 1 space.
                                                                                      carriers
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.062  R-10 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in the R-10 districts:
Minimum lot area:                     10,000 square feet.
Minimum land area per dwelling unit:  10,000 square feet.
Maximum dwelling units per net acre:  4 dwelling units.
Minimum lot width at front building   60 feet.
line:
                                      25 feet, or average or existing setbacks
Minimum front yard depth:             from same street in same block in
                                      district, but not less than 15 feet.
Minimum setback from second street    Side street on corner lot: 25 feet.
frontage:
Rear street on double frontage lot:   25 feet.
                                      Principal structure: 7 feet from interior
                                      side lot line;
Minimum side yard:                    Accessory structure: Same as principal
                                      structure;
                                      Open carport: 7 feet from interior side
                                      lot line.
                                      Principal structure: 25 feet from
Minimum rear yard:                    interior rear lot line;
                                      Accessory structure: 5 feet from interior
                                      rear lot line.
Maximum lot coverage:                 25%
                                      35 feet to the roof line (not applicable
Maximum structure height:             to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                                      domes, utility and communication towers,
                                      chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                                      Corner lot: No obstruction between
                                      heights of 3 and 10 feet above finished
                                      street level within 25 feet of
Visibility requirements:              intersection of street rights-of-way
                                      lines.
                                      Private drive: No obstruction over height
                                      of 30 inches within 10 feet of street.
Off-street parking area requirements: See §§
                                      153.125et seq.
Signs:                                See §§
                                      153.140et seq.
Supplemental regulations:             See §§
                                      153.090et seq.
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.063  R-7 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
 
R-7 PERMITTED USES    NAICS CODE    NAICS DESCRIPTION     PARKING SPACES
                                                          REQUIRED
Single family, two-
family and multi-                                         2 for each dwelling
family dwellings (as  814110        Private households    unit.
defined in
definitions).
                                    Other general gov.;   1 space per 200
Government building   921190 922190 Other justice, public square feet of gross
facility.             921130        order, and safety;    floor area.
                                    Public finance.
Non-commercial                      All other misc. crop
horticulture or       111998        farming.              None.
agriculture.
Church, synagogue,
temple, or place of
worship: including
religious education
building, parsonage
or parish house, off-
street parking for    813110        Religious             1 for each 4 seat in
members and visitors                organizations         main assembly room.
without pay,
recreation
facilities,
kindergarten or pre-
school nursery, in
permanent structures.
Recreational
facilities, such as                 Fitness and           1 per 200 square feet
playground, tennis    713940 713990 recreational sports;  of building area plus
court, ballfield,                   All other amusement   two for each golf
swimming pool, or                   industries.           hole.
golf course.
Accessory uses on same lot with principal use, as follows:
(1)   Private garage for motor vehicles;
(2)   Open parking area for 2 motor vehicles per dwelling unit, may be used for
1 commercial vehicle up to 1 ton in capacity per dwelling unit;
(3)   Shed for storage of building or lot maintenance equipment;
(4)   Private kennel for not more than 3 dogs or 3 cats, 4 months of age or
older, with minimum 6 foot fence for exterior kennel;
(5)   Private swimming pool, including deck; bath house, or cabana; boat dock;
(6)   Disaster shelter;
(7)   Private garden; greenhouse or slathouse up to 8 feet high;
(8)   Private tennis; outdoor recreation and picnic facilities;
(9)   Garage sales, provided that the provisions hereof are met.
For bed and breakfast inns, see special exceptions.
 
 
R-7 CONDITIONAL USES                                                          NAICS  NAICS         PARKING
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)              CODE   DESCRIPTION   SPACES
                                                                                                   REQUIRED
Public utility substation, water tower, (for communication towers see special
exceptions) provided all following conditions are met:                               Electric,
(1)   Structure enclosed by 6 foot fence;                                         gas, water,
(2)   No office, commercial operation, or storage of vehicles or equipment 221118 sanitary      1 space.
permitted;                                                                           services
(3)   A landscaped strip at least 5 feet wide is planted and maintained along
all exterior lot lines.
Temporary contractor office and equipment shed, provided all following               New single-   1 for
conditions are met:                                                                  family        each 300
(1)   Used in connection with construction on premises;                    236115 housing       square
(2)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;                       236118 construction; feet of
(3)   For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.                                 Residential   office
                                                                                     remodelers.   area.
Manufactured home on a single lot, occupied as residence on permanent                              2 for
foundation with underpinning, tied down, with mobile features removed.        N/a    N/a           each
See §                                                                                             unit.
153.092.
Customary home occupation in single-family dwelling, provided all of the following conditions are met:
(1)   Conducted inside dwelling by resident family members;
(2)   Utilizes not more than 25% of total dwelling floor area;
(3)   No change in exterior appearance of dwelling;
(4)   No outside display of products;
(5)   No sale of products except those made on premises or consumables incidental to a service;
(6)   Create no health or safety hazard, noise, offensive emissions, traffic hazard, unsightly conditions
or nuisance;
(7)   Activity is not visibly evident outside dwelling, except for a wall-mounted sign not over four square
feet in area.
 
R-7 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                     NAICS                     PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after hearing)                    CODE   NAICS DESCRIPTION  SPACES
                                                                                                     REQUIRED
Private kindergarten or pre-school nursery, provided the Board of Zoning
Appeals determines:                                                               Elementary and
(1)   Applicable state regulations are met;                             611110 Secondary schools; 1 for each
(2)   Minimum 20,000 square foot lot;                                   624410 Child day care     employee.
(3)   Structures minimum 25 feet from residential property;                    services
(4)   Conditions imposed for safety, traffic, impact on district;
(5)   The use is compatible with the district.
Cluster single-family development, provided that the Board of Zoning
Appeals determines:
(1)   Detached single-family units on minimum of 2 acres;
(2)   Not exceed density per entire tract; may exceed density per acre;                           2 for each
(3)   Lot improvements per house may be waived;                         814110 Private households dwelling
(4)   Zero interior lot line setback may be allowed;                                              unit.
(5)   Subdivision regulations are met;
(6)   Adequate provisions for access and traffic safety;
(7)   The use is compatible with the district.
Communication towers, see §                                                      Wireless
153.091.                                                                   517312 telecommunications 1 space.
                                                                                  carriers
                                                                                                     Location
                                                                                                     set by
                                                                                                     Board;
Conversion of existing dwelling to bed and breakfast, with provisions             Bed and breakfast  minimum: 1
outlined in §                                                             721191 inns               for each
153.096.                                                                                             guest room
                                                                                                     plus 2 for
                                                                                                     resident
                                                                                                     innkeeper.
Manufactured home park, see §
153.092.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.064  R-7 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in R-7 districts:
Minimum land area (square feet) per dwelling unit and maximum units per
net acre for multi-family dwelling:
Multi-family 1 story 2 stories  3 stories  4 or more stories
Minimum land area (square feet) per dwelling unit and maximum units per net
acre for multi-family dwelling:
Multi-     1 story        2 stories   3 stories       4 or more stories
family
Unit type  Min.  Units/   Min.  Units/   Min. Area Units/   Min. Area Units/
           Area  net acre Area  net acre           net acre           net acre
Efficiency 2,000 18       1,435 26       1,410     26       1,240     30
(studio)
1 bedroom  2,000 18       1,775 21       1,625     23       1,438     26
2 bedrooms 2,650 14       2,475 15       2,215     17       1,825     20
3 bedrooms 3,525 10       3,175 11       2,653     14       2,200     17
4 or more  4,375 8        3,975 9        3,492     10       2,725     13
bedrooms
 
                                    7,000 square feet for first unit, plus
Minimum lot area:                   minimum area for additional units required
                                    in the above table for a minimum land area
                                    and maximum units per net acre.
Minimum land area per single-family 7,000 square feet.
dwelling unit:
Minimum lot width at building line: 50 feet.
Minimum front yard depth:           25 feet from street right of way line.
Minimum setback from second street  Side street on corner lot: 12.5 feet.
frontage:                           Rear street on double frontage lot: 25
                                    feet.
                                    Principal structure: 7 feet from interior
Minimum side yard:                  side lot line.
                                    Accessory structure: Same as principal
                                    structure.
                                    Principal structure: 15 feet from interior
Minimum rear yard:                  rear lot line.
                                    Accessory structure: 4 feet from interior
                                    rear lot line.
Maximum lot coverage:               35% percent.
                                    Multi-family dwelling: 60 feet when
                                    permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:           applicable to church spires, belfries,
                                    cupolas, domes, utility and communication
                                    towers, chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                                    Corner lot: No obstruction between heights
                                    of 3 and 10 feet above finished street
Visibility requirements:            level within 25 feet of intersection of
                                    street rights-of-way lines.
                                    Private drive: No obstruction over height
                                    of 30 inches within 10 feet of street.
Off-street parking requirements:    See §§
                                    153.125et seq.
Signs:                              See §§
                                    153.140et seq.
Supplemental regulations:           See §§
                                    153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.065  NC NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT USES.
 
                                                                    NAICS  NAICS          PARKING
NC PERMITTED USES                                                   CODE   DESCRIPTION    SPACES
                                                                                          REQUIRED
                                                                           Pharmacies and
Retail Business, sale of merchandise on premises including but not         drug stores;
limited to:                                                         446110 Convenience    1 for
(1)   Drug store or pharmacy;                                    445120 stores;        each 200
(2)   Small convenience-type grocery store;                      453110 Florists;      square
(3)   Florist shop;                                              453310 Antiques, used feet of
(4)   Antique store;                                             451211 goods;         retail
(5)   Book, magazine, newspaper shop;                            451212 Book stores;   floor
(6)   Bakery.                                                    311811 Newsstands;    space.
                                                                           Retail
                                                                           bakeries.
                                                                           Depository,
                                                                           bank; Consumer
                                                                           Lending;
                                                                           Beauty Salons;
                                                                    522190 Dressmaking;
                                                                    522291 Tailors;       1 space
Personal services, including but not limited to:                    812112 Insurance      for each
(1)   Branch bank, savings and loan, small loan company;         811490 agents,        300
(2)   Barber or beauty shop;                                     315220 service;       square
(3)   Dressmaking, seamstress, tailor;                           524210 Offices of     feet of
(4)   Insurance agency;                                          621111 Physicians;    gross
(5)   Professional office: doctor, lawyer, engineer, accountant; 541110 Offices of     floor
(6)   Realty office.                                             541330 Lawyers;       space.
                                                                    541214 Engineering
                                                                    531210 services;
                                                                           Payroll
                                                                           services;
                                                                           Real estate
                                                                           agent.
                                                                           Business
                                                                           associations;  1 for
Membership organizations, including:                                813910 Professional   each 4
(1)   Business and professional associations;                    813920 organization;  seats in
(2)   Unions and political organizations;                        813930 Labor Unions;  assembly
(3)   Civic, social and fraternal organizations.                 813410 Civic and      room.
                                                                           Social
                                                                           organizations.
                                                                                          1 for
Church, synagogue, temple, or place of worship, including religious        Religious      each 4
education building, parsonage or parish house, off-street parking   813110 organizations, seats in
for members and visitors without pay, and recreation facilities.           churches, etc. assembly
                                                                                          room.
 
NC PERMITTED USES      NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION     PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
                                                        School: 4 per classroom
                                  Public schools;       or office, plus 2
                       611110     Other general gov.;   spaces per office, 1
Government building or 921190     Other justice, public for each 5 seats for
facility, and schools. 922190     order, and safety;    public assembly in
                       921130     Public finance.       senior high school.
                                                        Other: 1 per 200 square
                                                        feet of area.
Residential uses       814110     Private households    2 per unit.
permitted in R-7.
Accessory uses on same lot with principal use, as follows:
(1)   Off-street parking or storage area for vehicles owned by members,
customers or employees of business;
(2)   Completely enclosed building for storage of supplies or merchandise for
use in principal business.
 
NC CONDITIONAL USES                                                             NAICS  NAICS          PARKING SPACES
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)                CODE   DESCRIPTION    REQUIRED
                                                                                       *Martial arts
School of dance, art, music, drama, martial arts, etc., provided all following         only; Schools  1 or each
conditions are met:                                                             611620 and            classroom and
(1)   Not more than 25 students will be enrolled;                            611610 educational    each
(2)   Instruction is limited to art, music, dancing, drama, martial arts, or        services: art, administrative
similar cultural activity.                                                             dance, drama,  office.
                                                                                       music, etc.
Contractor's office, provided there will be no storage of vehicles, equipment          Contractor -   1 for each 300
or materials on the premises.                                                   561110 office only    square feet of
                                                                                                      floor space.
                                                                                       Dry-cleaning   1 space for
Dry cleaning or laundry pickup agency, provided laundering, cleaning or                and laundry    each 250
pressing on premises involving only articles delivered to premises by           812320 services       square feet of
individual customers.                                                                  (except coin-  floor area not
                                                                                       operated).     for storage.
Public utility substation, water tower, (for communication towers see special
exceptions) provided all following conditions are met:                                 Electric, gas,
(1)   Structure enclosed by 6 foot fence;                                    221118 water,
(2)   No office, commercial operation, or storage of vehicles or equipment   571919 sanitary       1 space.
permitted;                                                                             services.
(3)   A landscaped strip at least 5 feet wide is planted and maintained along       Communications
all exterior lot lines.
Temporary uses, provided all following conditions are met:
(1)   Christmas tree sales, on vacant lot for a period not to exceed 45 days;                      1 for each 300
(2)   Contractor's office and equipment shed;                                N/a    N/a            square feet of
(a)   Used in connection with construction on premises;                                            office area.
(b)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;
(c)   For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.
 
 
NC SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                          NAICS  NAICS         PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after hearing)                        CODE   DESCRIPTION   SPACES
                                                                                                    REQUIRED
Automobile service station, including limited sale of groceries, provided the
Board of Appeals determines:                                                                        2 for each
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                     Gasoline      fuel pump,
(2)   Parking and service areas are separate from adjoining residential            Stations with plus 3 for
property by planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet high;               447110 Convenience   each
(3)   No major repairs or sale of vehicles to be conducted on premises;            Stores        service bay
(4)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;                                or wash
(5)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property for adverse impact;                    rack.
(6)   Fuel pumps must comply with state regulations.
Car wash, either automatic or self-service, provided the Board of Appeals
determines:                                                                                         Self-
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                                   service
(2)   Adequate spaces for vehicles awaiting entry are required; more than                        wash: 3.
minimum may be required;                                                       811192 Car washes    Automatic
(3)   The area is required to be adequately screened from adjoining                              wash: set
residential property;                                                                               by Board,
(4)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;                                minimum 6.
(5)   Hours of operation are limited to prevent late night noise.
Delicatessen, restaurant, soda fountain or other eating/drinking                                    1 for each
establishment, provided the Board of Appeals determines:                                            4 seats,
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                                   plus 1 for
(2)   No outside loud speaker is allowed;                                                        each 2
(3)   Exterior and vehicle lights will be direct away from residential      722511 Full-service  employees
property;                                                                             restaurants   on shift
(4)   Parking and service areas will be separated from residential areas by                      with
planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet high;                                                maximum
(5)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;                                employment.
(6)   Hours of operation are limited to prevent late night noise.
                                                                                                    Location
                                                                                                    set by
                                                                                                    Board;
Conversion of existing dwelling to bed and breakfast, with provisions outlined        Bed and       minimum: 1
in §                                                                          721191 breakfast     for each
153.096.                                                                              inns          guest room
                                                                                                    plus 2 for
                                                                                                    resident
                                                                                                    innkeeper.
Communication towers, see §                                                   517919 Communication 1 space.
153.091.
                                                                                      Skilled       1 for each
Skilled nursing care facilities.                                               623110 nursing care  2 beds.
                                                                                      facilities
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.066  NC NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in NC district:
                              Commercial uses: none.
Minimum lot area:             Residential uses:
                              Single-family - 7,000 square feet.
                              Duplex - 9,000 square feet.
Minimum lot width at building Commercial uses: none.
line:                         Residential uses: 50 feet.
Maximum dwelling units:       6 dwelling units per acre.
Minimum front yard depth:     25 feet from street right of way line.
Minimum setback from second   Side street on corner lot: 12.5 feet;
street frontage:              Rear street on double frontage lot: 25 feet.
                              Principal structure: 7 feet from interior side
Minimum side yard:            lot line;
                              Accessory structure: 5 feet from interior side
                              lot line.
                              Principal structure: 15 feet from interior rear
Minimum rear yard:            lot line;
                              Accessory structure: 5 feet from interior rear
                              lot line.
Maximum lot coverage:         40%
                              40 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:     applicable to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                              domes, utility and communication towers,
                              chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                              Corner lot: No obstruction between heights of 3
                              and 10 feet above finished street level within
Visibility requirements:      25 feet of intersection of street rights-of-way
                              lines.
                              Private drive: No obstruction over height of 30
                              inches within 10 feet of street.
Off-street parking area       See §§
requirements:                 153.125et seq.
                              See landscaping, supplemental regulations, §§
                              153.110et seq.
Screening:                    Planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet
                              high is required along all interior lot lines
                              abutting a residential area.
Signs:                        See §§
                              153.140et seq.
Subdivision regulations:      Applicable regulations must be met.
Supplemental regulations:     See §§
                              153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.067  CC CORE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
CC PERMITTED USES NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
                                                                               NAICS                     PARKING
CC PERMITTED USES                                                              CODE   NAICS DESCRIPTION  SPACES
                                                                                                         REQUIRED
Telephone, telegraph, radio, television services, (except communication towers        Wireless
- see conditional uses).                                                       517312 Telecommunications None.
                                                                                      Carriers
Public utility, including water tower, substation.                             221118 Electric, gas,     None.
                                                                                      water, sewer
                                                                                                         1 per 300
                                                                                                         square
Wholesale trade, durable and non-durable goods.                                425120 Wholesale trade    feet of
                                                                                      agents and brokers gross
                                                                                                         sales
                                                                                                         area.
                                                                                      Hardware stores
                                                                               444130 only; Department
                                                                               452210 stores;
Retail trade, involving sale of merchandise on premises (except NAICS 447190 - 442110 Furniture stores;
automobile service station - see special exceptions).                          722511 Full-service       None.
                                                                               722410 restaurants;
                                                                               453998 Drinking places;
                                                                                      Miscellaneous
                                                                                      retail.
                                                                                      Depository, bank;
                                                                                      Credit
                                                                               522190 institutions;
                                                                               522298 Security dealers;
Finance, insurance, and real estate.                                           523110 Insurance agents,  None.
                                                                               541214 service;
                                                                               531210 Real estate
                                                                               525990 agents, etc.;
                                                                                      Investment
                                                                                      offices.
                                                                                      Hotels and motels;
                                                                                      Boarding houses;
                                                                                      Personal services;
                                                                                      Business services;
                                                                                      Auto rental;
                                                                                      Parking lots and
                                                                               721110 garages;
                                                                               721310 Miscellaneous
                                                                               812990 repair;
                                                                               541199 Indoor motion
                                                                               532111 pictures;
                                                                               812930 Video tape rental;
                                                                               811490 Amusement and
                                                                               512131 recreation;
Services to individuals, business, and government institutions (except:        532282 Health services
(1)   Carwash or automobile repair garage  - see conditional uses and speci561599 (except
exceptions; and                                                                621999 hospitals);        None
(2)   Coin-operated machines licensed to S.C. Code § 12-21-2720(A)(3) -   541110 Legal services;
(video poker, etc.)).                                                          611110 Elementary
                                                                               519120 schools;
                                                                               624110 Libraries and
                                                                               712110 archives;
                                                                               712130 School services;
                                                                               813910 Museums;
                                                                               541330 Zoo and botanical
                                                                               541219 gardens;
                                                                               541990 Membership
                                                                                      organization;
                                                                                      Engineering
                                                                                      services;
                                                                                      Other accounting
                                                                                      services;
                                                                                      Services not
                                                                                      classified.
Church, synagogue, temple, or place of worship, including religious education         Religious          1 for each
building, parsonage or parish house, off-street parking for members and        813110 organizations,     2
visitors without pay, and recreation facilities.                                      churches, etc.     employees.
                                                                                      U.S. Postal
                                                                                      Service;           1 for each
                                                                               491110 Other general      200 square
Government building or facility including postal facility.                     921190 gov.;              feet of
                                                                               922190 Other justice,     floor
                                                                               921130 public order, and  area.
                                                                                      safety;
                                                                                      Public finance.
Accessory uses on same lot with principal uses, as follows:
   (1)   Off-street parking or storage area for vehicles owned by members, customers or employees of business;
   (2)   Completely enclosed building for storage of supplies or merchandise for use in principal business.
 
CC CONDITIONAL USES                                                          NAICS NAICS       PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)             CODE  DESCRIPTION
Dwelling unit, provided all following conditions are met:
(1)   Dwelling unit must be on level above the grade level floor within a                   1 for each dwelling unit in excess of 2 units per building. See §§
permitted principal use building;                                            N/a   N/a         153.125et seq.
(2)   Dwelling units must have access to a street as required by building
and fire codes.
Temporary use, provided all following conditions are met:
(1)   Christmas tree sales, on vacant lot for a period not to exceed 45
days;
(2)   Contractor's office and equipment shed:                             N/A   N/A         1 for each 300 square feet of office area.
   (a)   Used in connection with construction on premises;
   (b)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;
   (c)   For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.
 
CC SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                       NAICS  NAICS           PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals)                                   CODE   DESCRIPTION     SPACES
                                                                                                   REQUIRED
Automobile service station, including sale of groceries, provided the Board                        2 for
of Appeals determines:                                                                             each
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                  Gasoline        fuel
(2)   Parking and service areas are separated from adjoining residential        stations with   pump,
property by planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet high;            447110 convenience     plus 3
(3)   No major repairs or vehicle sales conducted on premises;           447190 stores;         for each
(4)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;               Other gasoline  service
(5)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from adverse          stations        bay or
impact;                                                                                            wash
(6)   Fuel pumps must comply with state regulations.                                            rack.
                                                                                                   Set by
Transportation terminals for bus and railroad service, provided the Board                          Board;
of Appeals determines:                                                             Railroad; Other minimum:
(1)   Repair facilities and truck terminals are not permitted;                  support         1 for
(2)   Adequate maneuvering and parking spaces are set;                   482111 activities for  each 200
(3)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;        488490 road            square
(4)   The area is adequately screened from residential areas;                   transportation. feet of
(5)   The use is compatible with the district.                                                  gross
                                                                                                   floor
                                                                                                   space.
Communication tower, see §                                                 517919 Communications  1 space
153.091.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.068  CC CORE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in CC districts:
Minimum lot area:             None.
Minimum lot width at building 15 feet.
line:
Maximum setback:              Comply with SC Department of Transportation
                              requirements.
Minimum front setback:        15 feet.
Minimum lot coverage:         N/a
                              60 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:     applicable to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                              domes, utility and communication towers,
                              chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
Off-street parking area       See parking, supplemental regulations, §§
requirements:                 153.125et seq.
                              See landscaping, supplemental regulations, §§
                              153.110et seq.
                              Open sales yards: yards used for sale, rental,
Screening:                    or storage of materials or equipment must be
                              screened from adjoining residential property or
                              other zoning districts by planting screen,
                              fence, or wall at least 6 feet high.
Signs:                        See §§
                              153.140et seq.
Subdivision regulations:      Applicable regulations must be met.
Supplemental regulations:     See §§
                              153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.069  GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT USES.
GC PERMITTED USES NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
GC PERMITTED USES      NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION      PARKING SPACES
                                                         REQUIRED
Telephone, telegraph,
radio, television                 Wireless               1 per 300 square feet
services, (except      517312     telecommunications     gross floor area.
communication towers -            carriers
see conditional uses).
Public utility,                   Electric, gas, water,  1 per 300 square feet
including water tower, 221118     sewer.                 gross floor area.
substation.
Wholesale trade,                                         1 per 300 square feet
durable and nondurable 425120     Wholesale trade        gross sales area.
goods.
                                  Hardware stores;
                       444130     General merchandise;
Retail trade,          452319     Food stores;
including shopping     445110     Motor vehicle and boat
center, involving sale 441110     dealers (except
of merchandise on      441222     447190);               1 per 200 square feet
premises (except NAICS 448150     Apparel and accessory; of retail floor area.
447190 - automobile    442110     Furniture stores;
service station - see  722511     Full service
special exceptions).   453998     restaurants;
                       445310     Miscellaneous retail;
                                  Liquor stores.
                                  Depository, bank;
                       522190     Credit institutions;
                       522298     Security dealers;
Finance, insurance,    523110     Insurance agents,      1 per 300 square feet
and real estate.       541214     service;               of gross floor area.
                       531210     Real estate agents,
                       525990     etc.;
                                  Investment offices.
                                  Veterinary services;
                                  Hotels, motels;
                                  Personal services,
                                  laundry, barber,
                                  beauty shop, shoe
                                  repair, funeral, tax,
                       541940     etc.                   Hotel, Motel: 1 for
                       721110     Business services;     each guest room.
                       812990     Auto repair, services, Service and repair: 1
                       519190     wash, rental and       per 250 square feet of
                       811198     parking;               work area.
                       811490     Miscellaneous repair;  Club, library,
                       512131     Indoor motion          funeral, home,
Services to            532282     pictures;              theater: 1 for each 4
individuals, business  713990     Video tape rental;     seats.
and government         622110     Amusement and          Hospital: 1 for each 2
establishments.        541110     recreation;            beds.
                       611110     Health services,       School: 1 for each
                       813319     hospitals;             classroom and admin.
                       712110     Offices of Lawyers;    office.
                       813410     Schools and libraries; All other: 1 per 300
                       541330     Social services;       square feet of gross
                       541990     Museums and gardens;   floor area.
                                  Membership
                                  organization;
                                  Engineering,
                                  accounting, research
                                  and management;
                                  Services not
                                  classified.
Church, synagogue,
temple, or place of
worship, including
religious education               Religious              1 for each 2 employees
building, parsonage or 813110     organizations,         and 1 for each 4 seats
parish house, off-                churches, etc.         in assembly room.
street parking for
members and visitors
without pay, and
recreation facilities.
                       491110     U.S. Postal Service;
Government building or 921190     Other general gov.;    1 for each 200 square
facility, including    922190     Other justice, public  feet of floor area.
postal facility.       921130     order, and safety;
                                  Public finance.
Miniwarehouses.        493110     General warehousing    1 per 200 square feet
                                  and storage            of office space.
 
GC CONDITIONAL USES                                                         NAICS  NAICS       PARKING
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)            CODE   DESCRIPTION SPACES
                                                                                               REQUIRED
Automobile service station, including limited sale of groceries, provided          Gasoline    2 for
the Board of Appeals determines:                                                   service     each
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                  stations    fuel
(2)   Parking and service areas are separated from adjoining residential        with        pump,
property by planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet high;            447110 convenience plus 3
(3)   No vehicle sales conducted on premises;                            447190 stores;     for each
(4)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;               Other       service
(5)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from adverse          gasoline    bay or
impact;                                                                            stations.   wash
(6)   Fuel pumps must comply with state regulations.                                        rack.
Temporary use, provided all following conditions are met:                                      1 for
(1)   Christmas tree sales, on vacant lot for a period not to exceed 45                     each 300
days;                                                                                          square
(2)   Contractor's office and equipment shed:                            N/a    N/a         feet of
   (a)   Used in connection with construction on premises;                               office
   (b)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;                                  area.
   (c)   For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.
 
GC SPECIAL EXCEPTION
(approved by the Board of    NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION PARKING SPACES
Zoning Appeals after                                      REQUIRED
hearing)
Communication tower, see §  517919     Communications    1 space.
153.091.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.070  GC GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in GC districts:
Minimum lot area:             None.
Minimum lot width at building 50 feet.
line:
Minimum front yard depth:     15 feet.
Minimum setback from second   Side street on corner lot: 7.5 feet;
street frontage:              Rear street on double frontage lot: 15 feet.
                              Principal structure: No side yard is required if
                              buildings are built to side lot line, otherwise,
Minimum side yard:            at least 5 feet of side yard width is required.
                              Accessory structure: 5 feet from interior side
                              lot line.
Minimum rear yard:            Principal structure: 10 feet.
                              Accessory structure: 10 feet.
Maximum lot coverage:         60%
                              35 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:     applicable to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                              domes, utility and communication towers,
                              chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                              Corner lot: No obstruction between heights of 3
                              and 10 feet above finished street level within
Visibility requirements:      25 feet of intersection of street rights-of-way
                              lines.
                              Private drive: No obstruction over height of 30
                              inches within 10 feet of street.
Off-street parking area and   See §§
loading area requirements:    153.125et seq.
                              See landscaping, supplemental regulations, §§
                              153.110et seq.
Screening:                    Planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet
                              high is required along all interior lot lines
                              abutting a residential area.
                              2 or more stores or businesses located on the
Shopping centers:             same parcel of land constitutes a shopping
                              center. Site plan approval required.
Signs:                        See §§
                              153.140et seq.
                              Applicable regulations must be met. Site plan
Subdivision regulations:      approval is required for shopping centers prior
                              to issuance of zoning and building permits.
Supplemental regulations:     See §§
                              153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.071  LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT USES.
LI PERMITTED USES NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
LI PERMITTED USES      NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION      PARKING SPACES
                                                         REQUIRED
                                  Nursery and tree
Horticultural nursery. 111421     production;            1 per 200 square feet
                       111422     Floriculture           of office area.
                                  production.
                                  Canned and frozen
                       311999     food;
                       311812     Commercial bakeries;
                       311340     Candy and confections;
                       312111     Soft drinks;
                       311919     Other snack foods;
                       312113     Ice;
                       311999     Food preparations;
Manufacturing,         315990     Apparel;
processing, and        337110     Wood kitchen cabinets; 1 per 300 square feet
packing, limited to    511110     Newspaper publishing;  of inside work area.
the NAICS classes      323111     Commercial printing;
listed.                325611     Perfumes and
                       314999     cosmetics;
                       316998     Gloves and mittens;
                       316992     Luggage;
                       339910     Handbags;
                       316998     Personal goods;
                       327110     Leather goods;
                                  Pottery and related
                                  products.
                                  Railroad
Transportation         482111     transportation;
terminal and storage,  485999     Passenger              1 per 200 square feet
including              484110     transportation;        of gross floor area.
miniwarehouses.                   Trucking and
                                  warehousing.
Telephone, telegraph,
radio, television                 Wireless               1 per 200 square feet
services (except       517312     telecommunications     of gross floor space.
communication towers -            carriers
see conditional uses).
Public utility,
including water tower,            Electric, gas, water,
substation, land fill  221118     sewer, refuse (except  1 per 300 square feet
(except hazardous                 hazardous).            of floor area.
waste disposal in
562211).
Wholesale trade,                                         1 per 300 square feet
durable and non-       425120     Wholesale trade        of sales area.
durable goods.
                                  Building material,
                                  hardware, garden
                       444130     supply;
Retail trade,          452319     General Merchandise;   Eating and drinking
involving sale of      445110     Food stores;           places; 1 for each 4
merchandise on         441110     Automotive dealers;    seats.
premises (except NAICS 448150     Apparel and accessory; All other: 1 per 200
447190 - automobile    442110     Home Furniture and     square feet of gross
service station - see  722511     equip;                 sales area.
conditional uses).     453998     Eating and drinking     
                       445310     places;
                                  Miscellaneous retail;
                                  Liquor store.
                                  Depository, bank;
                       522190     Credit institutions;
                       522298     Security dealers;
Finance, insurance,    523110     Insurance agents,      1 per 300 square feet
and real estate.       541214     service;               of gross floor area.
                       531210     Real estate agents,
                       525990     etc.;
                                  Investment offices.
                                  Veterinary services;
                                  Auto repair, services,
                                  wash, rental and       Service and repair: 1
                       541940     parking;               per 250 square feet of
                       811198     Miscellaneous repair;  work area.
Service to             811490     Amusement and          Hospital: 1 for each 2
individuals, business  713990     recreation;            beds.
and government         622110     Health services,       School: 1 for each
establishments,        541110     hospitals;             classroom and admin.
except:                611110     Offices of Lawyers;    office.
                       541330     Schools and libraries; All other: 1 per 300
                       541990     Engineering,           square feet of gross
                                  accounting, research   floor area.
                                  and management;
                                  Services not
                                  classified.
                       491110     U.S. Postal Service;
Government building or 921190     Other general gov.;    1 for each 200 square
facility, including    922190     Other justice, public  feet of floor area.
postal facility.       921130     order, and safety;
                                  Public finance.
 
LI CONDITIONAL USES                                                           NAICS  NAICS          PARKING
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)              CODE   DESCRIPTION    SPACES
                                                                                                    REQUIRED
a. One-family dwelling for watchman or caretaker, provided all following
conditions are met:
(1)   Dwelling is located on premises of permitted use;                    N/a    N/a            1 space
(2)   Head of household is employed in a permitted use as watchman or
caretaker.
Garage for repair and servicing of motor vehicles, provided all following                           3 for
conditions are met:                                                                  Automotive     each
(1)   Operations are in a fully enclosed building;                         811111 repair shops   service
(2)   No open storage of wrecked vehicles or dismantled parts, or visible                        bay.
beyond premises. 
Communication tower, see §                                                   517919 Communications 1 space.
153.091.
                                                                                                    2 for
Automobile service station, including limited sale of groceries, provided the        Gasoline       each
Board of Appeals determines;                                                         service        fuel
(1)   Parking and service areas are separated from residential property by        stations with  pump,
planting scree, fence, wall at least 6 feet high;                             447110 convenience    plus 3
(2)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;          447190 store;         for each
(3)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from adverse            Other gasoline service
impact.                                                                              stations.      bay or
                                                                                                    wash
                                                                                                    rack
Temporary uses, provided all following conditions are met;                                          1 for
(1)   Christmas tree sales, on vacant lot for a period not to exceed 45 days;                    each 300
(2)   Contractor's office and equipment shed:                              N/a    N/a            square
   (a)   Used in connection with construction on premises;                                    feet of
   (b)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;                                       office
   (c)   For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.                                          area.
 
LI SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                          NAICS NAICS         PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after hearing)                        CODE  DESCRIPTION   SPACES
                                                                                                   REQUIRED
Manufacturing, industry, processing, assembly, and storage, provided the Board
of Appeals determines:
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;
(2)   Adequate parking for employees and customers is provided;
(3)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;           N/a   Manufacturing Set by
(4)   No outside storage of junk or salvage is permitted;                                       Board
(5)   No nuisance will be created beyond the premises by noise, vibrations,
smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, etc.;
(6)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from adverse impact;
(7)   Applicable environmental regulations are met.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.072  LI LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in LI districts:
Minimum lot area:             N/a
Minimum lot width at building 50 feet.
line:
Minimum front yard depth:     25 feet.
Minimum setback from second   Side street on corner lot: 25 feet.
street frontage:              Rear street on double frontage lot: 25 feet.
Minimum side yard:            7 feet from interior side lot line.
Minimum rear yard:            30 feet from interior rear lot line in, or 1/10
                              of lot depth, but not less than 10 feet.
Maximum lot coverage:         60%
                              35 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:     applicable to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                              domes, utility and communication towers,
                              chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                              Corner lot: No obstruction between heights of 3
                              and 10 feet above finished street level within
Visibility requirements:      14 feet of intersection of street rights-of-way
                              lines.
                              Private drive: No obstruction over height of 30
                              inches within 10 feet of street.
                              See §§
                              153.125et seq.
Off-street parking area and   Truck terminal: Paved acceleration and
loading area requirements:    deceleration lanes at least 10 feet wide and 100
                              feet long are required at entrance and exit of
                              terminal site which must have access to and from
                              major street.
                              See landscaping, supplemental regulations, §§
                              153.110et seq.
Screening:                    Planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet
                              high is required along all interior lot lines
                              abutting any district not separated by a street,
                              except BI.
Signs:                        See §§
                              153.140et seq.
Storage:                      No open storage of junk or salvage materials is
                              permitted with any use in the district.
Subdivision regulations:      Applicable regulations must be met.
Supplemental regulations:     See §§
                              153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.073  BI BASIC INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT USES.
BI PERMITTED USES NAICS CODE NAICS DESCRIPTION PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
BI PERMITTED USES   NAICS CODE    NAICS DESCRIPTION    PARKING SPACES
                                                       REQUIRED
                                  Nursery* and tree
Horticultural       111421        production;          1 per 200 square
nursery.            111422        Horiculture          feet of office area.
                                  production.
                                  Railroad
Transportation                    transportation;      1 per 200 square
terminal and        482111 485999 Passenger            feet of gross floor
storage, including  484110        transportation;      area.
miniwarehouses.                   Trucking and
                                  warehousing.
Telephone,
telegraph, radio,
television services               Wireless             1 per 300 square
(except             517312        telecommunications   feet of gross floor
communication                     carriers             space.
towers -see
conditional uses).
Public utility,
including water
tower, substation,                Electric, gas,       1 per 300 square
land fill (except   221118        water, sewer, refuse feet of floor area.
hazardous waste                   (except hazardous).
disposal in
562211).
                                  Depository, bank;
                    522190        Credit institutions;
Finance, insurance, 522298        Security dealers;    1 per 300 square
and real estate.    523110 541214 Insurance agents,    feet of gross floor
                    531210        service; Real estate area.
                    525990        agents, etc.;
                                  Investment offices.
                                  Pet veterinary
                                  services; Auto
                                  repair, services,
                                  wash, rental and
                                  parking;             Service and repair:
                                  Miscellaneous        1 per 250 square
                    541940        repair; Amusement    feet of work area.
Service to          811198        and recreation;      Hospital: 1 for each
individuals,        811490 713990 Health services,     2 beds.
business and        622110 541110 hospitals; Offices   School: 1 for each
government          611110 541330 of lawyers;          classroom and admin.
establishments.     541990        Schools and          office.
                                  libraries;           All other: 1 per 300
                                  Social services;     square feet of gross
                                  Engineering,         floor area.
                                  accounting, research
                                  and management;
                                  Services no
                                  classified.
                                  U.S. Postal Service;
Government building 491110        Other general gov.;  1 for each 200
or facility,        921190        Other justice,       square feet of floor
including postal    922190        public order, and    area.
facility.           921130        safety;
                                  Public finance.
Manufacturing,
industry,
processing,
assembly and
storage, which does
not involve outside                                    1 for each 300
storage of junk or                                     square feet of
salvage, which does N/a           Manufacturing        inside work area
not affect adjacent                                    floor space.
property with noise
and fumes, and
which meets
environmental
regulations (see
conditional uses).
 
BI CONDITIONAL USES                                                            NAICS  NAICS          PARKING
(approved by the Zoning Administrator if all conditions are met)               CODE   DESCRIPTION    SPACES
                                                                                                     REQUIRED
One-family dwelling for watchman or caretaker, provided all following
conditions are met:
(1)   Dwelling is located on premises of permitted use;                     N/a    N/a            1 space.
(2)   Head of household is employed in a permitted use as watchman or
caretaker.
Communication tower, see §                                                    517919 Communications 1 space.
153.091.
                                                                                      Building
                                                                                      material,
                                                                                      hardware,
                                                                               444130 garden;        1 per
                                                                               452319 General        200
Retail trade, involving sale of merchandise on premises (except NAICS 447190 - 445110 merchandise;   square
automobile service station - see conditional uses)                             448150 Food stores;   feet of
                                                                               442110 Apparel and    gross
                                                                               453998 accessory;     sales
                                                                                      Furniture and  area.
                                                                                      equip.;
                                                                                      Miscellaneous
                                                                                      retail.
Physical fitness and recreation facility, provided all following conditions
are met:                                                                              Fitness and
(1)   Business must be incidental to a permitted manufacturing use;         713940 recreational    
(2)   Business must be located on same premises as the permitted manufacturing     sports centers
use.
                                                                                                     2 for
Automobile service station, including limited sale of groceries, provided the         Gasoline       each
Board of Appeals determines;                                                          service        fuel
(1)   Parking and service areas are separated from residential property by         stations with  pump,
planting scree, fence, wall at least 6 feet high;                              447110 convenience    plus 3
(2)   Adequate provisions are made for access and traffic safety;           447190 stores;        for each
(3)   Conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from adverse impact;     Other gasoline service
(4)   The use is compatible with the district;                                     stations.      bay or
(5)   Fuel pumps must comply with state regulations.                                             wash
                                                                                                     rack.
                                                                                                      
Temporary uses, provided all following conditions are met;                                           1 for
(1)   Christmas tree sales, on vacant lot for a period not to exceed 45 days;                     each 300
(2)   Contractor's office and equipment shed;                                                     square
   (a)   Used in connection with construction on premises;               N/a    N/a            feet of
   (b)   Must not cause traffic congestion or nuisance;                                        office
   (c)    For term up to 1 year; may be renewed once.                                          area
(3)   Religious meeting, in tent or temporary structure for a period not to                        
exceed 60 days.
 
BI SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS                                                          NAICS NAICS         PARKING
(approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals after hearing)                        CODE  DESCRIPTION   SPACES
                                                                                                   REQUIRED
Manufacturing, industry, processing, assembly, and storage, involving open
storage of junk or salvage, or producing noise, vibration, smoke, gas, odor,
dust, fire hazard, radiation, or other conditions which could adversely affect
adjacent property, provided the Board of Appeals determines:
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;                                                  Set by
(2)   The use is on a site at least 5 acres in size;                        N/a   Manufacturing Board
(3)   Set adequate parking, access and traffic safety conditions;
(4)   No nuisance or hazard will reach beyond the premises;
(5)   Setbacks and conditions are imposed to protect adjacent property from
adverse impact;
(6)   Applicable environmental regulations are met.
Open yard for sale, rental or storage of new, used, junk or salvaged materials
or equipment, provided the Board of Appeals determines:
(1)   The use is compatible with the district;
(2)   The use is on a site at least 1 acre in size;                                             Set by
(3)   Set adequate parking, access and traffic safety conditions;           N/a   N/a           Board
(4)   No nuisance or hazard will reach beyond the premises;
(5)   Setbacks, screening and other conditions are imposed to protect adjacent
property from adverse impact;
(6)   Applicable environmental regulations are met.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.074  BI BASIC INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply to all uses in BI districts:
Minimum lot area:              N/A
Minimum lot width at building  50 feet.
line:
Minimum front yard depth:      25 feet.
Minimum setback from second    Side street on corner lot: 25 feet.
street frontage:
Rear street on double frontage 25 feet.
lot:
Minimum side yard:             7 feet from interior side lot line in.
Minimum rear yard:             10 feet from interior rear lot line in.
                               35 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not
Maximum structure height:      applicable to church spires, belfries, cupolas,
                               domes, utility and communication towers,
                               chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
                               Corner lot: No obstruction between heights of 3
                               and 10 feet above finished street level within
Visibility requirements:       25 feet of intersection of street rights-of-way
                               lines.
                               Private drive: No obstruction over height of 30
                               inches within 15 feet of street.
                               See §§
                               153.126et seq.
Off-street parking area and    Truck terminal: Paved acceleration and
loading area requirements:     deceleration lanes at least 10 feet wide and 100
                               feet long are required at entrance and exit of
                               terminal site which must have access to and from
                               major street.
                               See landscaping, supplemental regulations, §§
                               153.110et seq.
Screening:                     Planting screen, fence or wall at least 6 feet
                               high is required along all interior lot lines
                               abutting any district not separated by a street.
Signs:                         See §§
                               153.140et seq.
Subdivision regulations:       Applicable regulations must be met.
Supplemental regulations:      See §§
                               153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.075  PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT USES.
   Planned Development Districts may permit a mixture of different types of
housing with compatible commercial uses, shopping centers, office parks and
other mixed used developments. Flexibility in design, character and quality of
development and preservation of natural and scenic features are made possible
through the approval of a plan which describes the specific uses, densities,
setbacks, and other requirements for a planned development. The approved plan
constitutes the district regulations for a particular planned development.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.076  PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all uses in PD districts, other
provisions in this chapter to the contrary withstanding:
Minimum site  3 acres.
area:
Minimum lot
area for      Set in approved plan.
structure:
Minimum lot
width, yards, Set in approved plan.
setbacks:
Maximum       60 feet when permitted by fire regulations (not applicable to church
structure     spires, belfries, cupolas, domes, utility and communication towers,
height:       chimneys, flag poles, antennae).
Off-street
parking and   Set in approved plan.
loading
requirements:
Screening:    Set in approved plan, but not less than landscaping required in §§
              153.110et seq.
Signs:        Set in approved plan, but not greater than signs allowed in §§
              153.140et seq.
Subdivision   Applicable regulations must be met.
regulations:
Supplemental  See §§
regulations:  153.090et seq.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.077  PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall apply to establishment of a PD district,
other provisions in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding:
Zoning         PD districts are established by amendment to the zoning ordinance in the manner
amendment      prescribed for rezoning.
required
               The applicable regulations in §
District       153.074, §§
regulations    153.090et seq., and those in an approved plan and descriptive statement shall
               constitute the PD district regulations for the site.
Preapplication An applicant for PD zoning is encouraged, but not required, to contact the
conference     Planning Commission prior to submission of the application for information and
optional       review of the regulations and procedures applicable to the proposed plan and
               descriptive statement.
Amendment      Initiation of a PD amendment shall be by submission of an application form
application    provided by the Zoning Administrator with required attachments.
required
               A site development plan is a required attachment to application for PD amendment.
Development    The site development plan shall indicate the proposed use of all land areas and
plan required  such other information as the Zoning Administrator deems reasonably necessary for
               review.
               A descriptive statement is a required attachment to the application for PD
               amendment. The descriptive statement shall indicate the characteristics and
               standards to be used for development of the site, and shall include at least the
               following items:
               (1)   Legal description of site boundaries, and total area of the site;
               (2)   Area and location of each type of use;
               (3)   Number and density of dwelling units by type;
               (4)   Description of open space location, uses and proposed dedication for public
               use;
               (5)   Ownership and maintenance of streets, and proposed dedication to public;
Descriptive    (6)   Methods of dealing with parking and the impact of projected traffic on the
statement      uses on the site and adjacent distorts, and streets;
required       (7)   Steps proposed to comply with sediment control and storm drainage
               regulations;
               (8)   Steps proposed to comply with landscaping regulations;
               (9)   Details of association or organization involved in ownership and
               maintenance, including procedures and methods of operation;
               (10)   Outline for development phasing with anticipated time frames;
               (11)   Design standards, procedures and methods demonstrating that development
               will result in integrated use district, functional and compatible with the area;
               (12)   Proposed restrictive covenants to be recorded to assure future compliance
               with the standards in the plan; and
               (13)   Such other information as may be appropriate for planning commission
               review.
Planning       Upon determination that the application meets above requirements, the Zoning
Commission     Administrator shall forward the application to the Planning Commission for review
review         and recommendation to Town Council as required for zoning amendments.
               Upon receipt of the Planning Commission recommendation, Town Council shall,
Town Council   conduct a public hearing as required for zoning amendments, and may approve,
action         approve with modifications accepted by applicant, or disapprove the proposed
               amendment.
               Zoning and building permits shall not be issued until the zoning is approved by
Zoning and     Town Council, and approved plats, the approved descriptive statement and all
building       required restrictive covenants are filed for record with the Municipal Clerk and
permits        the Clerk of Court for Newberry County, and all required bounds are posted with
               the Municipal Clerk.
               The site development plan approved by Town Council shall be the zoning district
District map   map for the PD and shall be the basis for issuance for zoning and building
               permits.
               (1)   Minor changes: Changes proposed in writing by the applicant which do not
               alter district boundaries and which involve revision of minor characteristics of
               the PD such as relocation of driveways, revision of floor plans, facades,
               landscaping, relocation of required parking, drainage structures, and features
               which do not materially affect the approved plan concept or violate any
               applicable regulations may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. Approval or
               rejection of the change is subject to review and final determination by the
               Planning Commission if the applicant or any party whose property is adversely
Changes to     affected files a written objection with the Planning Commission within 10 days
plan           after action by the Zoning Administrator. An applicant may submit a rejected
               change as an amendment to the plan under the normal zoning amendment procedures.
               (2)   Major changes: Changes proposed in writing by the applicant which alter
               district boundaries or which materially affect the characteristics of the PD
               shall be submitted under normal zoning amendment procedures applicable to the
               establishment of the PD.
               (3)   Permits: No zoning or building permits involving a minor or major change of
               the PD descriptive statement or map shall be issued until the written change is
               filed with the Municipal Clerk and recorded in the office of the Clerk of Court
               for Newberry County.
               If the responsible party fails to begin, fails to progress, or fails to complete
Failure to     development as agreed in the descriptive statement, Town Council may charge the
begin; failure developer with violation of the zoning ordinance, may rezone the property, or may
to progress;   take any combination of these actions. In any event, if the planned development
failure to     is not initiated within 2 years of its establishment, the Planning Commission
complete       shall initiate the rezoning of the property to an appropriate district
               classification in conformity with the comprehensive plan.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.090  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   It is the purpose of this section to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of
the Town of Prosperity, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the continued deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the town. The provisions of this section have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this section to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section as
written unless context indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “certain sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas.”
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which,
as one of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with “specified sexual activities.” A commercial
establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve
the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and still be categorized as
adult bookstore or adult video store. Such other business purposes will not
serve to exempt such commercial establishment from being categorized as an
adult bookstore or adult video store so long as one of its principal business
purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities;” or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type or photographic reproductions;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than 10 hours;
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas.”
      ADULT THEATER. A theater concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
      ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
      ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as
a new business.
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
         (c)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
      NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays “specified anatomical area” is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
      NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a person's genitals, pubic
area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage or buttocks or any simulation
thereof; or any portion of a female breast below the horizontal line across the
top of the areola at its highest point or any simulation thereof. The
definition shall include the appearance of any portion of the entire lower
portion of the female breast.
      PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license
to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
      PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
      SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The male genitals in a state of sexual
arousal and/or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female genitals.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Means and includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
         (d)   The fondling, erotic touching, or other such contact with an
animal by a human being; or
         (e)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (a) through (d) above.
      SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on May 1, 1999.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL: OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means
and includes any of the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership or control of the business.
   (B)   Classification. Sexually oriented businesses are classified as
follows:
      (1)   Adult arcades;
      (2)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
      (3)   Adult cabarets;
      (4)   Adult motels;
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters;
      (6)   Adult theaters;
      (7)   Escort agencies;
      (8)   Nude model studios; and
      (9)   Sexual encounter centers.
   (C)   Permit required.
      (1)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he operates a sexually oriented
business without a valid permit and/or license issued by the town for the
particular type of business.
      (2)   An application for a permit and/or license must be made on a form
provided by the Town of Prosperity Zoning Department. The application must be
accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business, including
a statement of the total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or
diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated
scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus 6 inches.
      (3)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the health department, fire department, and building official. The
health department, fire department, and building office shall complete their
inspections and certify same to the Zoning Administrator within 21 days of
receipt of the application by said Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he must sign the application for a permit and/or license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit and/or license as
applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business
or as the entity which wishes to operate such a business, each individual
having a 10% or greater interest in the corporation must sign the application
for a permit and/or license as applicant.
      (5)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state, or town
permits and/or licenses does not exempt that person from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business permit and/or license.
   (D)   Issuance of permit and fee.
      (1)   The Town Zoning Administrator shall approve the issuance of a
permit and/or license to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an
application unless any one or more of the following is found to be true:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue payment to the
town for taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed or imposed in relation to a
sexually oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the permit or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application.
         (d)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit and/or license by the town to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved by the health department, fire department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
         (f)   The permit and/or license fee required by this chapter has not
been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
         (h)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit and/or license shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business
so that it may be easily read at any time.
      (2)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit and/or
license is $500.
   (E)   Inspection.
      (1)   An application of permittee shall permit representatives of the law
enforcement department, health department, fire department, zoning department
or any other town departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a sexually
oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
      (2)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits a misdemeanor if he refuses to permit such lawful inspection
of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (F)   Expiration of permit.
      (1)   Each permit and/or license shall expire one year from the date of
issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
153.091(B). Application for renewal should be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expirations date,
the expiration of the permit and/or license will not be affected.
      (2)   When the Zoning Administrator denies renewal of a permit and/or
license, the applicant shall not be issued a permit and/or license for 1 year
from the date of denial. If subsequent to denial, the Zoning Administrator
finds that the basis for denial of the renewal permit and/or license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a permit and/or license if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date of denial became final.
   (G)   Suspension of permit. The Zoning Administrator may suspend a permit
for a period not to exceed 30 days if it is determined that a permittee and/or
licensee or an employee of a permittee and/or licensee has:
      (1)   Violated, or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
   (H)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a permit if a cause for
suspension in division (G) occurs and the permit and/or license has been
suspended within the preceding 12 months.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a permit and/or license if it
is determined that:
         (a)   A permittee and/or his licensee knowingly gave false or
misleading information in the material submitted to the Zoning Department
during the application process;
         (b)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
prostitution on the premises;
         (d)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly
operated the sexually oriented business during a period of time when the
permittee's and/or licensee's permit and/or license was suspended;
         (e)   A permittee and/or licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed
any act of sexually intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other
sexual conduct to occur in or on the permitted and/or licensed premises;
         (f)   A permittee and/or licensee is delinquent in payment to the town
or state for any taxes or fees past due.
      (3)   When the zoning administrator revokes a permit and/or license, the
revocation shall continue for 1 year, and the permittee and/or licensee shall
not be issued a sexually oriented permit and/or license for 1 year from the
date revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Zoning
Administrator finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or
abated, the applicant may be granted a permit and/or license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (I)   Transfer of permit. A permittee and/or licensee shall not transfer his
permit and/or license to another, not shall a permittee and/or licensee operate
a sexually oriented business under the authority of a permit and/or license at
any place other than the address designated in the application.
   (J)   Location of sexually oriented businesses.
      (1)   A sexually oriented business may be located only within a Basic
Industrial District.
      (2)   A person commits a misdemeanor when operating, or causes to be
operated, a sexually oriented business outside of a designated Basic Industrial
District.
      (3)   A person commits a misdemeanor when operating, or causes to be
operated, a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         (c)   A boundary of any residential district;
         (d)   A public park adjacent of any residential use;
         (e)   A day care center; and/or
         (f)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use.
      (4)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
      (5)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor areas of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
      (6)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard of intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, day care center, or public or private elementary
or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park,
residential district, or residential lot.
      (7)   For purposes of division (D) of this section, the distance between
any 2 sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located.
      (8)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on May 1, 1999
that is in violation of division (A) through (G) of this section shall be
deemed to non-conforming use. The non-conforming use will be permitted to
continue for a period not to exceed 2 years, unless sooner terminated for any
reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such
nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except
that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If 2 or more sexually oriented
businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the
later-established business(es) is nonconforming.
      (9)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grand or
renewal of the sexually oriented business permit and/or license, of a church,
public or private elementary or secondary school, public park, day care center,
residential district, or a residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually
oriented business. This provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit
and/or license, and does not apply when an application for a permit and/or
license is submitted after a permit and/or license has expired or has been
revoked.
   (K)   Additional regulations for adult motels.
      (1)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated 2 or more times in a
period of time that is less than 10 hours creates a rebuttable presumption that
the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
      (2)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented permit and/or license, he rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within 10 hours from the time the room is
rented, he rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the terms “rent” or “subrent” mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
   (L)   Regulations for exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos.
      (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated, a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexually
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Upon application for a sexually oriented permit and/or license,
the application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a
plan thereof specifying the location of 1 or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manger's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit and/or license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however each diagram should be oriented to the
north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus 6 inches. The town Zoning Administrator may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
         (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
         (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator or
his designee.
         (d)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to
ensure that at least 1
employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at all times that
any patron is present inside the premises.
         (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a
manner that there is an unobstructed view from a manger's station of every area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has 2 or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least 1 of the manager's stations. The view required in
this division must be by direct line of sight from the manger's station.
         (f)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure
that the view area specified in division (e) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in application
filed pursuant to division (a) of this section.
         (g)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than 1 person at any
time.
         (h)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than 1 foot candle as measured
at the floor level.
         (i)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure
that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any
patron is present in the premises.
      (2)   A person having a duty under division (a) through (i) of division
(L)(1) above commits a misdemeanor if he knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
   (M)   Exemptions. It is a defense to prosecution under division (D) and (J)
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of South Carolina; a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
education programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least 3 days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than 1 nude model is on the premises at any 1
time.
   (N)   Injunction. A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without a valid permit and/or license or in violation of
division (J) of this section is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violation as outlined in §§
153.155et seq. of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.091  COMMUNICATIONS TOWER AND ANTENNA.
   A communications tower and/or antenna may be permitted as follows:
   (A)   Districts in which special exception and conditional uses are
permitted and height limitations of free-standing or guyed towers.
      (1)   In residential districts R-10, R-8, and R-7 and commercial
districts C-1 and C-2, free-standing pole with height not exceeding 100 feet is
a permitted special exception pursuant to division (E).
      (2)   In commercial districts C-3, free-standing or guyed towers with
height not exceeding 180 feet is a permitted conditional use; height exceeding
180 feet requires special exception.
      (3)   In industrial districts LI and BI, and development district D-1,
free-standing or guyed towers with height not exceeding 200 feet is a permitted
condition use; height exceeding 200 feet requires special exception.
      (4)   In planned development districts, towers with height specified in
approved plan is permitted under conditions set forth in plan.
      (5)   In permissible districts, towers and/or antennas mounted on
buildings, water tanks or structures other than a free-standing or guyed
communications tower must not extend more than 30 feet above the highest part
of the structure.
      (6)   In districts in which communication towers and antennas are
permitted, freestanding or guyed and/or antenna exceeding height limitations
may be permitted by the Zoning Board of Appeals as a special exception (see
requirements for special exception in section).
      (7)   In all districts, variances from conditions imposed by this section
may not be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Variances from other general
district regulations may be granted under standards in S.C. Code § 6-29-800.
   (B)   Application requirements. The applicant for a conditional use zoning
permit for construction of a communications tower or placement of a commercial
telecommunication antenna on an existing structure other than a tower
previously permitted must file with the Zoning Administrator an application
accompanied by a fee of $200 and the following documents, if applicable:
      (1)   One copy of typical specifications for proposed structures and
antennae, including description of design characteristics and material;
      (2)   A site plan drawn to scale showing property boundaries, tower
location, tower height, guy wires and anchors, existing structures, photographs
or elevation drawings depicting typical design of proposed structures, parking,
fences, landscape plan, and existing land uses on adjacent property;
      (3)   A current map, or update for an existing map on file, showing
locations of applicant's antennae, facilities, existing towers, and proposed
towers which are reflected in public records, serving any property within the
town;
      (4)   A report from a structural engineer registered in South Carolina
showing the tower antenna capacity by type and number, and a certification that
the tower is designed to withstand winds in accordance with ANSI/EIAMA 222
(latest version) standards.
      (5)   Identification of the owners of all antennae and equipment to be
locate on the site;
      (6)   Written authorization from the site owner for the application;
      (7)   Evidence that a valid FCC license for the proposed activity has
been issued;
      (8)   A line of sight analysis showing the potential visual and aesthetic
impacts on adjacent residential districts;
      (9)   A written agreement to remove the tower and/or antenna within 90
days after cessation of use;
      (10)   Evidence that applicable conditions in division (C) are met; and
      (11)   Additional information required by the Zoning Administrator for
determination that all applicable zoning regulations are met.
   (C)   Conditions. Applicant must show that all applicable conditions are
met:
      (1)   The proposed communications tower, antenna or accessory structure
will be placed in a reasonably available location which will minimize the
visual impact on the surrounding area and allow the facility to function in
accordance with minimum standards imposed by applicable communications
regulations and applicant's technical design requirements.
      (2)   Applicant must show that a proposed antenna and equipment cannot be
accommodated and function as required by applicable regulations and applicant's
technical design requirements without unreasonable modifications on any
existing structure or tower under the control of applicant.
      (3)   Applicant for a permit in a residential district must show that the
area cannot be adequately served by a facility placed in a non-residential
district for valid technical reasons.
      (4)   Prior to consideration of a permit for location on private property
which must be acquired, applicant must show that available publicly owned
sites, and available privately owned sites occupied by a compatible use, are
unsuitable for operation of the facility under applicable communications
regulations and applicant's technical design requirements.
      (5)   Applicant must show that a new tower is designed to accommodate
additional antennae equal in number to applicant's present and future
requirements.
      (6)   Applicant must show that all applicable health, nuisance, noise,
fire, building and safety code requirements are met.
      (7)   A communications tower must not be painted or illuminated unless
otherwise provided by state or federal regulations.
      (8)   A permit for a proposed tower site within 1,000 feet of an existing
tower shall not be
issued unless the applicant certifies that the existing tower does not meet
applicant's structural specifications and applicant's technical design
requirements, or that a collocation agreement could not be obtained.
      (9)   Applicant must show by certificate from a registered engineer that
the proposed facility will contain only equipment meeting FCC rules, and must
file with the Zoning Administrator a written indemnification of the
municipality and proof of liability insurance or financial ability to respond
to claims up to $1,000,000 in the aggregate which may arise from operation of
the facility during its life, at no cost to the municipality, in form approved
by the municipality attorney.
      (10)   Land development regulations, visibility, fencing, screening,
landscaping, parking, access, lot size, exterior illumination, sign, storage,
and all other general zoning district regulations except setback and height,
shall apply to the use. Setback and height conditions in this section apply.
      (11)   A tower must be a minimum distance equal to 1/2 the height of the
tower from property designated historic or architecturally significant, and
must be set back from all lot lines distances equal to the district setback
requirements or 25% of the tower height, whichever is greater.
      (12)   Prior to issuing a permit, the Zoning Administrator may consult
with a communications expert for technical review to determine that the
standards in division (C)(2), (3), (4), (5), (7), and (8) are met.
   (D)   Appeal to Board. Applicant may appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals
as follows:
      (1)   Failure of the Zoning Administrator to act on an application which
is determined to be complete under this section within 45 days, unless extended
by agreement, may be considered by applicant to be a denial of a permit which
is subject to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Applicant may appeal to the Board for a variance from general
zoning district regulations and setback requirements in this section, but not
from any other conditions in this section. Towers exceeding height limitations
may be permitted only by special exceptions pursuant to division (E).
      (3)   Applicant may apply directly to the Board for a permit for any
tower as a special exception pursuant to division (E).
   (E)   Special exceptions. A tower, pole, or antenna may be permitted by
special exception granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals after public hearing
and findings of fact based on the following criteria:
      (1)   All application requirements and conditions imposed in division (A)
through (D) of this chapter are met.
      (2)   If additional tower height is requested, total tower height will
not exceed 150% of the maximum height permitted in the district as a
conditional use.
      (3)   Applicant has demonstrated that additional height above that
permitted by conditional use regulations is necessary for service to occupants
of an area within the municipality.
      (4)   Setback requirements and such additional conditions are established
by the Board as is deemed necessary to remove danger to health and safety, and
to protect adjacent property.
      (5)   Prior to approving a permit by special exception or on appeal from
action of the Zoning Administrator on an application for a conditional use, the
Board may consult with a communication expert for technical review to determine
that the standards in divisions (C)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (7), and (8) are
met.
      (6)   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires that a denial of permit
be supported by substantial evidence.
      (7)   The Board may not grant a variance from the standards imposed for a
communication tower or antenna in connection with granting a special exception,
except as permitted by divisions (A) through (D).
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.092  MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Manufactured home parks shall meet the requirements specified in the Town of
Prosperity Ordinance entitles, “Town of Prosperity Manufactured Home Park
Ordinance.”
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.093  CHILD DAY CARE CENTERS.
   (A)   (1)   Before granting a special exception for establishment of a Child
Day Care Center of an In-Home Child Day Care Center, the Board of Appeals shall
determine that such facility meets the requirements set forth in the South
Carolina Department of Social Services “Rules and Regulations Relating to
Licensing Day Care Facilities and Child Care Centers.” Child day care
facilities are divided into the following categories based upon the number of
children served:
         (a)   In-Home Child Day Care Center - 1 to 6 children.
         (b)   Child Day Care Center - 7 children or greater.
      (2)   The Fire Inspector and Building Official may inspect the facilities
semi-annually to ensure adequate compliance with regulations.
   (B)   A fenced play area of not less than 4,000 square feet shall be
provided for 20 children or less, with 200 additional square feet for each
additional child. No play area shall be closer than 20 feet to any residential
lot line. No fence shall be less than 5 feet in height or greater than 7 feet
in height.
   (C)   An area adequate for loading and unloading children to be accommodated
shall be provided and such area shall not be located within any public right-
of-way.
   (D)   Signs shall conform to the regulations of §§
153.140et seq.
   (E)   Facilities, operations and maintenance shall meet the requirements of
the health department.
   (F)   Additional conditions. The Board shall determine if additional
safeguards and conditions are appropriate in order to protect children
accommodated from detrimental characteristics of use of adjacent area, or to
protect adjacent uses from potential incompatible characteristics arising from
such child day care centers and in-home child day care centers.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.094  RECREATIONAL FACILITIES ADJACENT TO RESIDENTIAL USES.
   Outdoor recreational facilities which are adjacent to lots which are zoned
for residential purposes shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   No swimming pool, playground, miniature golf course, ball field, or
game court shall be closer than 50 feet from the property lie of a lot zoned
for residential purposes.
   (B)   No lighting shall be installed in connection with outdoor recreational
facilities which is closer than 50 feet to the property line of a lot zoned for
residential purposes, unless such lighting is of such a nature, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator, that it will not be a nuisance to an adjacent
residential use.
   (C)   A solid wall or fence, or vegetative screening which furnishes equal
protection against noise and light, shall be provided when determined
appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   No commercial activities shall be permitted in conjunction with
recreational uses in residential zones except as listed below:
      (1)   Charges and fees for the use of recreational facilities; and
      (2)   Other activities which are directly in conjunction with the
recreational facility and which, in the judgment of the Zoning Administrator,
would not be in conflict with the residential nature of the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.095  SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAE.
   (A)   Satellite dish antennae are considered accessory structures and are
allowed only in the side or rear yard of principal structures and only within
the required setbacks.
   (B)   Satellite dish antennae may not be over 17 feet above ground
elevation.
   (C)   A satellite dish antennae may be placed on a roof provided its
diameter does not exceed 18 inches and further provided that it will not be
visible form any public street.
   (D)   Satellite dish antennae are considered structures and, as such,
require a zoning permit.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.096  BED AND BREAKFAST INNS.
   Bed and breakfast inns shall be allowed in any zoning district as a special
exception subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Inspection and approval by the ex-officio State Fire Marshall, the
Town of Prosperity Fire Department and the Building and Zoning Department of
the Town of Prosperity, South Carolina.
   (B)   All units of rental occupancy shall meet the requirements of the
standard housing code.
   (C)   If the bed and breakfast inn locates guest rooms above the first
floor, at least 2 exit stairways must be provided for egress from the upper
floors.
   (D)   Where and when structural changes to guest room walls and ceilings are
to be effected, 1 hour or greater fire separation between guest rooms will be
required.
   (E)   All electric convenience outlets located in bathrooms for guests must
be a GFI type.
   (F)   Smoke Detectors (HWW/BATTBU) must be installed in all guest rooms and
emergency lights must be provided in the emergency egress pathway (corridor)
from each guest room.
   (G)   Fire extinguishers must be placed as determined by the Town Fire
Department and/or Building Official.
   (H)   No unvented heating devices shall be installed or used in or near
guest rooms.
   (I)   Bed and Breakfast Inns will be subject to random compliance
inspections by the Town Fire Department and building officials.
   (J)   Meals may be served only to registered guests.
   (K)   The resident owner shall maintain a guest register to include names,
addresses, and dates of occupancy of all guests.
   (L)   Off-street parking shall be provided by the resident owner with at
least 1 parking space per rental unit (room, cottage, etc.)
   (M)   The principal use of a bed and breakfast dwelling shall remain
residential.
   (N)   In residential districts, only 1 freestanding or 1 wall mounted sign,
not to exceed 4 square feet in area, non-illuminated, may be located on the
premises of a bed and breakfast inn.
(Ord. passed - - )
LANDSCAPING AND BUFFER YARD
REGULATIONS
§ 153.110  PURPOSE FOR REQUIRED LANDSCAPING.
   Landscaped open areas are required by this ordinance to provide buffer areas
or screening
between adjacent land uses to reduce the impact of incompatible activities; to
improve, protect, preserve and promote the aesthetic character, natural beauty,
and value of land; and to promote and protect, public interest in recreation,
safety, health, reduction of pollution, and tree protection. The standards in
this division shall apply to all zoning districts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.111  BUFFER AREAS.
   Landscaped buffer areas along the perimeter of lots, but not in a street
right-of-way, which areas may be used for passive recreation only, shall be
maintained by property owners as follows:
 
TYPE LAND USE      WHERE       BUFFER SIZE AND PLANTS REQUIRED
                   REQUIRED
     Multi-family
     complex,
     mobile home   Along
     park, non-    street      Minimum buffer width: 5 feet.
     residential   rights-of-  Plants required per 100 feet of street frontage: 12 ornamental
A    use not       way except  shrubs, 2 evergreen understory trees, and grass or other ground
     adjacent to   driveways   cover. Shrubs may be clustered. 
     residential   and visible
     district, and angles.
     all surface
     parking lots.
     Multi-family
     complex,
     mobile home
     park,
     commercial or Along
     institutional adjacent    Minimum buffer width: 10 feet.
B    use adjacent  residential Plants required per 100 linger feet: 2 deciduous canopy trees 40
     to single     property    to 60 feet on center, and 8 evergreen plants 10 feet on center. 
     family        lines.
     residential
     use not
     separated by
     street or
     alley.
     Industrial
     warehouse,
     outdoor sales
     or storage    Along
     use adjacent  adjacent    Minimum buffer width: 15 feet.
C    to            residential Plants required per 100 linear feet: 2 deciduous canopy trees 40
     residential   district    to 60 feet on center, and 17 evergreen plants or understory trees
     district not  lines.      in double staggered rows 10 feet on center. 
     separated by
     street at
     least 18 feet
     wide.
 
 
Plant          Minimum installation height: Evergreen understory trees and shrubs - 6
standards:     feet;
               Deciduous canopy trees - 8 feet.
Minimum mature Evergreen -10 feet;
size:          Deciduous canopy trees - 25 feet.
               Existing plants meeting minimum standards may be retained to meet
               buffer requirements.
               Evergreens: Evergreen plants may be substituted for deciduous plants. 
               Fence or wall: Where existing lot use, size, shape, configuration,
Substitutions: topography or unusual circumstances prevent reasonable compliance with
               buffer landscaping requirements, the Zoning Administrator may approve
               substitution or an opaque fence or wall at least 6 feet in height, but
               not exceeding 10 feet in height, for a Type B or Type C buffer. Fence
               and walls shall be neat in appearance and have a finished surface
               facing adjacent property.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.112  OPEN SPACE LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following open space landscaping requirements shall apply to land uses
in all zoning districts:
 
LAND USE     OPEN SPACE REQUIRED                                          LANDSCAPING
Single-
family and
two family   District yard requirements                                   None
residential                                                               required.
except
clustered.
                                                                          Grass,
Clustered                                                                 shrubs and
residential. 15% of land area                                             trees
                                                                          selected by
                                                                          owner.
                                                                          Greenbelt
Mobile home  2,500 square feet for each acre or major fraction of an acre along all
park.        in the park.                                                 interior
                                                                          lot lines.
Multi-family
residential,
commercial                                                                Grass,
and          District yard requirements. Required buffer areas, woodlands shrubs and
industrial,  and wetlands may be used to satisfy requirements.            trees
except                                                                    selected by
surface                                                                   owner.
parking
lots.
                                                                          One
                                                                          evergreen
                                                                          or
                                                                          deciduous
Surface                                                                   tree for
parking      100 square feet of planted area for each 20 parking spaces.  each 20
lots.        Required buffer areas may be used to satisfy requirements.  parking
                                                                          spaces.
                                                                          Grass and
                                                                          shrubs
                                                                          selected by
                                                                          owner. 
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.113  TREE PROTECTION.
   An existing health tree greater than ten inches in DBH (diameter breast
high) is a valuable natural resource by virtue of age, size and contribution to
the environment, and must be preserved and protected to the extent practical
and feasible. Trees 10 inches in DBH shall be flagged and shown on a required
plat or site plan for development. No more than 25% of said trees shall be
removed from a lot, except by variance granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
In the event a variance is granted, each tree removed shall be replaced by a
tree at least 2 DBH in a location meeting required landscaping.
(Ord. passed  - - )
PARKING
§ 153.125  OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces required by district regulations shall be
located on the same lot as the principal use, or on a lot within 400 feet of
the main entrance to the principal use which under the same ownership as the
principal use or has been legally restricted for parking in connection with the
principal use, and shall have required buffer and landscape areas.
   (B)   Required off-street parking for a commercial or industrial use may
extend up to 120 feet into a residential zoning district provided:
      (1)   The parking area adjoins the property on which the principal
commercial or industrial use is located;
      (2)   The parking area access is to the same street as the principal use;
and
      (3)   The parking area has a Type B buffer area along residential lot
lines and required landscaping.
   (C)   Combined parking area serving 2 or more principal uses shall contain
spaces equal in number to the total of spaces required for all principal uses
served.
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.126  PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking spaces shall meet the following design standards:
                                        Angle parking: 9 feet by 19 feet;
                                        provided, 10% may be 8.5 feet by 18
Parking space dimensions:               feet.
                                        Parallel parking: 9 feet by 24 feet;
                                        Handicapped: 12 feet by 20 feet, or 8
                                        feet by 20 feet, with 8 foot isle.
                                        90 degree parking: 25 feet;
                                        60 degree parking: 18 feet;
                                        45 degree parking: 13 feet; 
Minimum isle width:                     Parallel parking: 10 feet;
                                        Street rights-of-way may not be
                                        considered as is isles for adjacent
                                        off-street parking.
                                        A parking area, including driveways
                                        continuing 10 or more parking spaces
Paving and marking requirements:        shall be surfaced with an all weather
                                        impervious material, and spaces shall
                                        be marked with painted lines.
                                        A parking area open for night use shall
Lighting requirements:                  have a minimum for one 9,000 lumen
                                        overhead light for each 25 parking
                                        spaces or major portion thereof.
                                        One parking space for handicapped
                                        persons shall be provided for each 25
                                        parking spaces, or fraction thereof,
Parking spaces for handicapped persons: except for dwellings of less than 20
                                        units, meeting Federal and state
                                        requirements, with access to ramps,
                                        walkways, and entrances without moving
                                        behind parked vehicles.
 
(Ord. passed  - - )
§ 153.127  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES.
   Except the CC - Core Commercial District, each lot used for commercial or
industrial purposes, or multifamily residences with more than 10 units, shall
provide off-street space for loading and unloading as follows:
Access:         Each space shall have access form an alley or public street.
Dimensions:     Each space shall be a minimum of 12 feet by 40 feet, clear of
                obstructions.
                Use                   Gross Floor Area (square   No. of Spaces
                                      feet)
                Retail business       For each 5,000 feet        1
                                      25,000                     1
                Wholesale, industrial 25,001 through 99,999      2
Space Required: governmental,         100,000 through 159,000    3
                institutional         160,000 through 239,999    4
                educational, medical, 240,000 through 349,000    5
                assembly              Each additional 100,000 or 1
                                      fraction
                Multi-family residence with 10 or more units     1
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.128  PARKING OF RECREATION, COMMERCIAL, AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No mobile recreation equipment or vehicle shall be parked or stored on
any lot in a residential district for more than 24 hours, other than a carport,
enclosed building, or rear yard. The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a
variance in case of unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   No vehicle or trailer subject to state licensing which does not
display a current license plate shall be parked or stored on any lot in a
residential district, except in an enclosed building.
   (C)   No more than one travel or camping vehicle per family living on the
premises shall be permitted to be parked on a lot in any residential zone; and
the
vehicle shall not be occupied temporarily or permanently while it is parked or
stored, except in an authorized mobile home park.
(Ord. passed - - )
SIGNS
§ 153.140  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   District classification. For the purposes of this chapter the
following shall apply:
      (1)   Residential (R) shall include the following districts: R-10 and R-
7;
      (2)   Commercial (C) shall include the following districts:
         (a)   Neighborhood Commercial (NC);
         (b)   Core Commercial (CC); and
         (c)   General Commercial (GC).
      (3)   Industrial (I) shall include the following districts:
         (a)   Limited Industrial (LI); and
         (b)   Basic Industrial (BI).
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to erect, construct enlarge, move or replace any sign or cause
the same to be done, without first having obtained a sign permit for such sign
from the Zoning Administrator as required by this chapter. A fee, in accordance
with a fee schedule adopted by the Town Council, shall be charged for each sign
permit issued.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, changing or replacing the copy on an
existing lawful sign shall not require a permit, provided the copy change does
not change the nature of the sign such as to render the sign in violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Sign illumination.
      (1)   All lighted signs shall have their lighting directed in such a
manner as to illuminate only the face of the sign. All lighted signs shall meet
all applicable Electrical Codes.
      (2)   No commercial sign within 100 linear feet of a pre-existing
residential structure may be illuminated between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m. A residence shall be deemed “pre-existing” for purposes in this
section if it has a valid building permit in effect for construction of said
structure or if construction of said structure was complete on or prior to the
effective date of this provision.
   (D)   Maintenance and upkeep of signs. All signs and all components thereof,
including supports, braces, anchors, etc., shall be kept in a good state of
repair, in compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter. Any sign which is determined
by the Zoning Administrator as being insecure, in danger of falling or
otherwise endangering the public safety shall be immediately removed by its
owner unless it is repaired and made to otherwise comply with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (E)   Sign area and height.
      (1)   Sign surface area. The area of a geometric shape enclosing any
message, logo, symbol, name, photograph, or display face.
      (2)   Sign frame area.
         (a)   The dimensions of a geometric shape formed by all supports,
frames, braces, borders, and embellishments which extend beyond the sign
surface area, and that enclose the sign surface area.
         (b)   All area provisions in this chapter are calculated from the sign
surface area dimensions as defined above.
         (c)   In the case of signs mounted back-to-back, only one side of the
sign is to be used for computation of the area. Back-to-back signs shall be
defined as double-faced signs with faces 12 inches apart or less. Otherwise,
the surface area of each sign is to be separately computed. In the case of
cylindrical signs, signs in the shape of cubes, or other signs which are
substantially 3-dimensional with respect to their display surfaces, the entire
display surface or surfaces is included in computations of area. If a sign is
attached to an entrance wall or fence, only that portion of that wall or fence
onto which the sign face or letters are placed shall be calculated in the sign
area.
      (3)   Sign height. The height of a sign shall be measured from the
highest point of a sign to the point of ground surface beneath it.
Ornamentation such as caps and spires are not included in this measurement. The
use of berms or raised landscape areas is only permitted to raise the base of
the sign to the mean elevation of the fronting street.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.141  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign which the Zoning Administrator determines obstructs the view
of bicyclists or motorists using any street, approach to any street
intersection, or which interferes with the effectiveness of or obscures any
traffic sign, device, or signal shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Illuminated, highly reflective signs or spot lights which hamper the
vision of motorists or bicyclists.
   (C)   Signs which contain lights, rotating disks, words and other devices
not erected by a public authority which may be erroneously construed as
government signs or emergency warning signs. An example of this is a sign which
contains a picture of a traffic sign plus the word “stop,” “yield,” etc.
   (D)   Any sign located outdoors which interferes with free passage from or
obstructs any fire escape, downspout, window, door, stairway, ladder, or
opening intended as a means of ingress or egress or providing light or air.
   (E)   Any sign (other than a government sign), banner or display placed on
any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, or other surface located
on, over, or across any public street or right-of-way, or any banner, placed on
stakes on a property, unless otherwise permitted. Banners shall be permitted on
buildings and existing signs only.
   (F)   Any sign located in such a way as to intentionally deny an adjoining
property owner visual access to an existing sign.
   (G)   Flashing signs, signs with flashing or reflective disks, signs with
flashing lights or lights of changing degree of intensity or color or signs
with electrically scrolled messages (except government signs and signs which
give time and temperature information). If a time and temperature sign
alternates between a time message and a temperature message it shall
continuously show 1 message a minimum of 3 seconds in time before switching to
the other message.
   (H)   Pole signs.
   (I)   Portable signs.
   (J)   Vehicular signs.
   (K)   Rotating signs, other than on premise rotating identification names
which contain a log and/or business name on it.
   (L)   Roof signs.
   (M)   Off premise advertising signs (i.e. Billboards).
   (N)   Signs placed on a piece of property without permission of its owners
or agent.
   (O)   Inflatable signs (including inflated balloons having a diameter of
greater than 2 feet).
   (P)   Other signs not expressly permitted in this chapter.
   (Q)   Any sign whose sign face was initially constructed and designed to be
placed and/or transported on wheels, regardless if said sign face is removed
from its base and placed on or in the ground so as to otherwise classify said
sign as a “free-standing” sign as herein defined.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.142  SIGNS NOT REQUIRED PERMIT.
   The following types of signs are exempt from permit requirements of §
153.140(C) of this chapter
and may be placed in any zoning district subject to the provisions of this
chapter. Such signs shall otherwise be in conformance with all applicable
requirements contained in this chapter. There shall be no limit as to the
number of such signs on any lot, except as herein prescribed. All such signs
(except government signs) shall be located outside a street right-of-way.
   (A)   Government signs and logo signs.
   (B)   Memorial signs, plaques or grave markers which are noncommercial in
nature.
   (C)   Flags, pennants, insignia, or religious symbols of any government,
non-profit or not-for-profit organization when not displayed in connection with
a commercial promotion or as an advertising device. No such flag pole shall
exceed 30 feet in height. Flags shall not exceed 60 square feet. Limit 3 per
site.
   (D)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings; works of
art; so long as such features or works do not contain letters, trademarks,
moving parts or lights.
   (E)   Public interest signs.
   (F)   On-premise directional and instructional signs not exceeding 4 square
feet in area a piece.
   (G)   Identification signs for residential uses (including home occupations)
not exceeding 4 square feet in area (1 only per premises).
   (H)   Campaign and election signs provided that:
      (1)   Each sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area.
      (2)   All such signs may be erected no sooner than 30 days in advance of
the election for which they were made.
      (3)   All such signs shall be removed within 7 days after the election
for which they were made.
      (4)   The property owner upon whose land the sign is placed shall give
written permission for the placement of said signs and will be held responsible
for violations.
      (5)   No sign shall be placed in any right-of-way, on any telephone pole
or street sign, or on any public property.
   (I)   Temporary real estate signs advertising a specific property for sale,
lease, rent or development shall be located as follows:
      (1)   One sign per street frontage advertising real estate ("for sale",
"for rent", "for lease" or "for development") not greater than 10 square feet
in area in a Residential (R) District and 32 square feet in area in non-
residential districts may be located on the property being advertised so long
as said sign is located behind the street right-of-way line. If the property so
advertised lies on a corner lot or double frontage lot, then a second sign may
be oriented along the second street so long as the 2 signs are at least 100
feet apart as measured by the shortest straight line.
      (2)   No sign allowed under this division shall be lighted.
   (J)   Temporary construction signs provided that:
      (1)   Signs in conjunction with any residential use shall not exceed 10
square feet each.
      (2)   Signs in conjunction with all other uses shall have a maximum area
of 32 square feet each.
      (3)   Only 1 such sign oriented per street front per premises shall be
erected. Any 2 such signs located on the same premises shall be located at
least 100 feet apart as measured by using a straight line.
      (4)   Such signs shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Such signs shall only appear at the construction site.
      (6)   Such signs shall be removed within 7 days after completion of the
project.
   (K)   Temporary special event signs and banners for religious, charitable,
civic, fraternal or similar non-profit or not-for-profit organizations provided
that:
      (1)   Signs shall be erected no sooner than 7 days prior and removed no
later than 2 days after the event.
      (2)   No such sign shall exceed 32 square feet.
      (3)   No such sign shall be illuminated.
      (4)   All such signs shall be located off the street right-of-way, unless
otherwise granted permission for such location by the Town of Blythewood or
SCDOT. In no case may any such sign impede on the view or travel of any
motorists or pedestrians or be attached to any structure within the right-of-
way (government signs, telephone poles, etc.).
   (L)   One on premise yard sale sign per yard sale. All such signs shall be
removed within 24-hours after the yard sale has been terminated. No such sign
shall be greater than 4 square feet in area. All such signs shall be located
off the street right-of-way.
   (M)   Directional signs (for civic uses only) provided that:
      (1)   No more than 1 directional sign per principal use may be erected.
      (2)   All such signs shall be located off the road right-of-way.
      (3)   All such signs greater than 3 feet in height as measured from the
grade of the road upon which it fronts shall be located outside the required
sight triangle as defined by this chapter. All such signs shall not be
illuminated.
      (4)   All directional signs shall be free-standing signs. Portable signs
shall be prohibited.
      (5)   There shall be no greater than four directional signs on separate
supports at the intersection of any 2 roads.
      (6)   A maximum of 4 signs may be placed on the same supports. The
maximum area of any directional sign shall be 6 square feet.
   (N)   Window signs.
   (O)   “Warning,” “no trespassing” and similar informational signs.
   (P)   Signs located within a stadium intended to be read only by persons
seated within the stadium.
   (Q)   Permanent municipal, school, recreational and civic club sponsored
signs, schedule of events, rules and regulations signs. Such signs shall not
include identification signs.
   (R)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to or placed within an
external window or piece of glass that is not legible more than 3 feet beyond
the building in which it is located.
   (S)   Signs placed on newspaper boxes designed for placement of delivered
newspaper to a particular location.
   (T)   Historical plaques mounted in accordance with the United States
Secretary of the Interior's standards for rehabilitation.
   (U)   Banners and flags for special events and grand openings, used in
conjunction with a commercial building, project, or enterprise are permitted
for a period not to exceed 14 days provided that:
      (1)   All banners shall be attached to frontage wall of a principal
structure.
      (2)   No such banner shall be attached to a roof structure or above the
second floor level.
      (3)   No such banner shall be attached to any existing signs, placed
within a right-of-way, attached to any fences, strung between posts, or in any
other method except as outlined in division (1).
   (V)   Sandwich board signs (or A-Frame signs) used in conjunction with a
conforming building in the Office Commercial and Neighborhood Commercial
Districts, provided the total area of each sign face does not exceed 8 square
feet. Such signs may be placed on the sidewalk provided they do not impede with
normal pedestrian traffic. Each building or shopfront is permitted a maximum of
1 sandwich board sign.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.143  SIGNS REQUIRING PERMIT.
   (A)   Civic uses.
      (1)   Ground mounted;
      (2)   Max Area: 32 square feet;
      (3)   Max height: 6 feet; and
      (4)   Wall signs do not require a permit*.
   (B)   NC and CC Districts.
      (1)   Wall; max area: 10%; or
      (2)   Ground mounted; max area: 32 square feet; and max height: 6 feet.
   (C)   GC and BI.
      (1)   (a)   Wall and ground mounted;
         (b)   Max wall area: 10%;
         (c)   Max ground mounted area: 32 square feet; and
         (d)   Max height: 6 feet;
         (e)   One per street frontage - no closer than 1,000 feet - max 3; or
      (2)   (a)   Wall only; and
         (b)   Max wall area:  15% of wall face.
   (D)   Multi-tenant identification.
      (1)   One per street frontage - no closer than 1,000 feet - max. 2;
      (2)   Max Area: 64 square feet;
      (3)   Max height: 6 feet (included shopping centers, office complexes,
etc.); and
      (4)    No individual tenant ground mounted signs permitted.
   (E)   Residential neighborhood identification.
      (1)   One per entrance;
      (2)   Max area: 32 square feet; and
      (3)   Max height: 5 feet.
   (F)   Wall signs.
      (1)   The maximum permitted aggregate area of wall signs excludes the
area of any windows or doorways.
      (2)   No wall signs hall project more than 18 inches from the building
wall. Further, no wall sign or its supporting structure shall cover any window
or part of a window, nor shall it extend beyond the highest point of a roof
line, parapet, or mansard roof.
      (3)   Canopy and awning signs may be substituted for part or all of the
allowable wall signage per premises. Signs may be painted or printed onto a
canopy or awning. Canopies and awnings may only be illuminated externally
(exception: service station canopies).
      (4)   Principal building walls and service station canopies may have
signage on all faces which front on a public street. Such signage shall not
exceed 10% of the building wall or canopy face.
      (5)   Wall signs should reflect the proportional and dimensional
relationships of the structure.
   (G)   Ground mounted signs.
      (1)   All ground mounted signs shall be located a minimum of 5 feet
behind the street right-of-way.
      (2)   No ground mounted sign greater than 5 square feet in area shall be
located closer than 10 feet to any adjacent lot line. A 15 foot side-yard
setback shall be required if the side lot line abuts a Residential District.
(Ord. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.155  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator
who shall have all powers and duties authorized by statute or ordinance for a
Zoning Administrator. The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include:
   (A)   Interpretation of terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Administration of this chapter by the issuance of permits and
certificates, including the collection of authorized fees;
   (C)   Processing applications for appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals
from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, variances and special
exceptions;
   (D)   Preparation of the record for appeal to the circuit court from the
decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (E)   Maintenance of a current zoning map, amendments to the zoning
ordinance, and all public records related to zoning and planning;
   (F)   Enforcement of the zoning ordinance, investigation and resolution of
zoning complaints;
   (G)   Administrative assistance to the Board of Zoning Appeals and Historic
Preservation Commission when authorized; and
   (H)   Such other duties as may be authorized.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.156  ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required. No building, sign or structure shall be erected,
moved, enlarged, altered or demolished without a zoning permit issued by the
Zoning Administrator. No permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator
except for a use which is in conformity with the provision of this chapter or
for a use authorized by order of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Fees for permits. A fee established by regulation of Town Council
shall be paid for each zoning permit of certificate of zoning compliance issued
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Applications for permits. Applications for zoning permits shall be
accompanied by plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions
and shape of the lot to be used, the sizes and locations of existing structures
on the lot, the location and dimensions of the proposed structure or
alteration. The application shall include such other information as may be
required by the Zoning Administrator to determine conformance with this
chapter, including existing or proposed buildings or alterations, exiting or
proposed uses of buildings and land, number of families, housekeeping units,
rental units, existing conditions on adjacent property. One copy of the plans
shall be returned to the applicant with the signed approval or disapproval of
the Zoning Administrator noted on the copy within a reasonable time.
   (D)   Expiration of permits. If the work described in a zoning permit has
not begun within 6 months from the date of the permit, or within the time
specified in a special exception, the permit shall expire and be void upon
written notice by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.157  CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Certificates required. It shall be unlawful for any person to sue
occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any building or property created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged, in whole or in part, until a
certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator
stating the proposed use conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Temporary uses. Certificates of zoning compliance may be issued and
renewed by the Zoning Administrator for permitted temporary uses for the times
permitted by the zoning district regulations.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.158  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Misdemeanor penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person to use
property, or to construct, alter, enlarge or demolish any structure without a
permit or permits required by this chapter. Conviction for violation of this
chapter is punishable as a misdemeanor under the general penalty provisions of
the Town Code.
   (B)   Withholdings permits. The Zoning Administrator shall deny a zoning
permit for any use or work which fails to comply with this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator or other appropriate official shall withhold all other town
permits for work which violates this chapter;
   (C)   Complaints. A written complaint specifying facts showing a violation
of this chapter filed by any person shall be investigated by the Zoning
Administrator upon determination that a violation has occurred, the Zoning
Administrator shall take appropriate enforcement action authorized by this
chapter.
   (D)   Stop work orders. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a
stop work order pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-950(A) requiring work to cease
until specific code violations are corrected. Failure to comply with a stop
work order of the Zoning Administrator is a misdemeanor punishable under the
general provisions of the Town Code. Issuance of a stop work order may be
appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (E)   Ordinance summons. The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue an
ordinance summons pursuant to Town Code provisions for violations of this
chapter.
   (F)   Arrest warrant. The Zoning Administrator, with concurrence of the Town
Attorney, is authorized to request the issuance of an arrest warrant for
violations of this chapter.
   (G)   Injunction. The Zoning Administrator shall submit a request to the
Town Attorney for institution of a civil action seeking an injunction
prohibiting violation of this chapter when appropriate.
(Ord. passed - - )
APPEALS
§ 153.170  BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Board established. A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby established
which shall consist of 5 members appointed by Town Council for staggered terms
of 3 years. A vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner
as the original appointment. Members of the Board may be removed by Council for
cause.
   (B)   Officers. The Board shall elect or re-elect 1 of its members as
chairperson for a term of 1 year. The Board may elect other officers as
provided by its rules of procedure. The Board shall appoint a secretary who may
be an officer of the town approved by the Town Manager or a member of the
Board.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for the
conduct of its meetings and hearings. A majority of the Board shall constitute
a quorum. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairperson or
at such times as the Board may be determined. Public notice of all hearings
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation of the town and shall
be posted on or adjacent to property affected, with at least 1 notice visible
from each public street abutting the property. The chairperson may administer
oaths and compel attendance of witnesses by subpoena. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member of each question,
or if absent or failing to vote by reason of conflict, and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions filed in the Office of the
Secretary of the Board as public records.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.171  POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals has the following powers:
   (A)   Appeal from Zoning Administrator: Any person aggrieved by a decision
of the Zoning Administrator may appeal that decision to the Board of Zoning
Appeals in writing on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator within 15
days after actual notice of the decision. An appeal stays the implementation of
the decision of the Zoning Administrator unless he certifies to the Board that
a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. The Board may affirm or
revers, wholly or in part, or may modify the decision by a written order
separately stating finds of fact and conclusion of law.
   (B)   Variances.
      (1)   An owner or authorized agent may appeal to the Board on a form
provided by the Zoning Administrator for a variance from the requirements of
the zoning ordinance when the district application of regulations would result
in unnecessary hardship. A variance may be granted if the Board makes all of
the following findings and conclusions in a written order:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
a particular piece of property;
         (b)   These conditions do not generally apply to other property in the
vicinity;
         (c)   Because of these conditions, the application of the ordinance to
particular piece of property would effectively prohibit or unreasonably
restrict utilization of the property;
         (d)   The authorization of the variance will not be substantial
detriment to adjacent property or to public good, and the character of the
district will not be harmed by the granting of the variance;
         (e)   The effect of the variance would not allow the establishment of
a use not otherwise permitted in the zoning district; would not extend
physically a nonconforming use of the land; would not change the zoning
district boundaries shown on the official zoning map.
      (2)   The fact that property may be utilized more profitably, should a
variance be granted, may not be considered grounds for a variance. In granting
a variance, the Board may attach to it such conditions regarding the location,
character, or other features of the proposed building, structure or use as the
Board may consider advisable to protect established property values in the
surrounding area, or to promote the public health, safety, or general welfare.
Failure to begin or complete an action for which a variance is granted within
the time limit specified as a condition of the variance shall void the
variance.
   (C)   Special exceptions. An owner or authorized agent may appeal to the
board on a form provided by the Zoning Administrator for a special exception
for a use permitted by district regulations as a special exception after
review, subject to applicable criteria. The Board shall consider the following
factors in determining whether a special exception should be granted, in
addition to specific criteria in district regulations:
      (1)   Traffic impact;
      (2)   Vehicle and pedestrian safety;
      (3)   Potential impact of noise, lights, fumes, or obstruction of air
flow on adjoining property;
      (4)   Adverse impact of proposed use on aesthetic character of the area;
and
      (5)   Orientation and spacing of improvements of structures. The Board
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to relieve or reduce
adverse impact of a special exception and to protect the character of the area.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.172  APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   A person having a substantial interest in a decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, or an officer of the town authorized by Town Council, may appeal to
circuit court by petition for review on grounds that the decision is contrary
to law, filed with the clerk or court and Secretary of the Board within 30 days
after the decision of the Board is mailed. Within 30 days after receipt of the
notice of filing a petition, the Zoning Administrator or Secretary of the
Board, with assistance of the Town Attorney, shall file with the Clerk of Court
a certified copy of the Board proceedings, including a transcript of evidence
and findings and conclusions of the Board.
(Ord. passed - - )
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.185  INITIATION OF AMENDMENT.
   (A)   An amendment to the zoning ordinance text or zoning map may be
initiation by adopted motion of Town Council, adopted motion of the Planning
Commission, or the Zoning Administrator. An amendment of the zoning map for
changing a zoning district designation of property may be initiated by the
owner of the property affected or by an agent authorized by the owner in
writing.
   (B)   An identical amendment to the district designation of the same or a
portion of the same property for which a rezoning has been denied shall not be
initiated more often than once in each 12 month period after denial unless the
Planning Commission determines either:
      (1)   There has been a substantial change in the character of the area;
or
      (2)   Evidence or factors exist which were not considered in the previous
deliberations which might substantially alter the basis for the Planning
Commission recommendation.
   (C)   A zoning map amendment shall be initiated by an owner or agent on an
application form provided by the Zoning Administrator, accompanied by required
documents and information, and a filing fee established by resolution of Town
Council.
   (D)   A complete application for amendment must be received at least 2 weeks
prior to the Planning Commission meeting in order to be considered at the
meeting.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.186  MINIMUM DISTRICT SIZE.
   No amendment shall be initiated which would create a new zoning district
with an area of less than 2 acres; provide, the minimum area for a PD (Planned
Development) district shall be 4 acres. The minimum requirement does not apply
to extension of an existing district, or addition of NC district adjacent to CC
or GC districts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 153.187  AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   The following procedural steps are required for adoption of a text of map
amendment:
   (A)   Amendment shall be initiated pursuant to §
153.185.
   (B)   Amendment chapter shall be prepared in written form required by Town
Code.
   (C)   Proposed amendment shall be referred to the Planning Commission for
review and recommendation. The Planning Commission shall not conduct a public
hearing, but the property owner may be allowed to present oral or written
comments. If oral or written comments are take, the Commission shall give other
interested members of the public 10 days’ notice and allow them to comment in
the same fashion. Review shall include a determination of whether the proposed
amendment is in conformity with the comprehensive plan. Planning Commission
shall file with Town Council its report and recommendation on the proposed
amendment within 30 days after receipt.
   (D)   Newspaper notice of public hearing before Town Council shall be
published at least 15 days prior to hearing. The public hearing shall be
scheduled for a date after the Planning Commission recommendation is due.
   (E)   Notices of public hearing shall be posted on or adjacent to property
to be rezoned, with 1 notice visible from each street bordering the property.
Posted notices shall contain letters not less than 1 inch in height.
   (F)   Notice of public hearing shall be mailed to adjacent landowners and
groups which have filed a written request for notices.
   (G)   Town Council may introduce amendment ordinance for first reading and
hold public hearing on the same date. Planning Commission recommendation shall
be reviewed and considered, but it shall not be binding Town Council.
   (H)   Town Council may adopt or reject the amendment ordinance on second
reading at least 6 days after first reading. Map amendment may be adopted or
rejected for all or any portion of the property; however, a zoning district
designation which was not included in the public notices shall not be adopted.
An amendment may be withdrawn in writing by the initiator at any time prior to
final action by Town Council. A withdrawn amendment is not subject to the 12
month limitation in §
153.185.
   (I)   All amendments shall be noted and placed in the copy of the zoning
ordinance maintained by the Zoning Administrator and in the office of the Town
Code maintained by the Municipal Clerk. Map amendment shall be reflected on the
official zoning map.
(Ord. passed - - )
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1982 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Cites Code Section
S.C. Code Cites     Code Section
5                   33.45
5-15-62             33.01,
                    33.03
5-7-30              10.99,
                    113.01
                    51.15–
5-7-80              51.19,
                    51.99
5-7-300             Ch. 110, App. B
5-9-40              31.04
6-29-31 et seq.     152.02
6-29-710            153.003,
                    153.016
6-29-310 et seq.    152.01,
                    153.002
6-29-800            153.091
6-29-950(A)         153.158
6:560               93.02
6-29-800            153.091
6-29-950(A)         153.158
7                   33.45
12-21-2720(A)(3)    153.067,
                    Ch. 110, App. B
12-21-2720(B)       Ch. 110, App. B
12-21-2728          Ch. 110, App. B
12-21-2746          Ch. 110, App. B
12-23-210           Ch. 110, App. B
12-56-10 et seq.    50.15
14-25               32.001
16:105              130.032
38-7-16             Ch. 110, App. B
38-45-10 - 38-45-60 Ch. 110, App. B
38-45-10            Ch. 110, App. B
38-45-60            Ch. 110, App. B
40-29-70            153.004
44-53-110           130.034
44-53-190           130.034
44-53-210           130.034
44-53-250           130.034
44-53-270           130.034
46:201              70.02
46:612 to 46:629    71.02
56-3-1965           72.01
56-3-1970           72.01
58-9-2200           Ch. 110, App. B
58-9-2220           Ch. 110, App. B
 
REFERENCES TO 1982 CODE
1982 Code 2005 Code
1982 Code                 2005 Code
Ch. 1, Art. I, § 3-20    10.02
Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-2    11.01
Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-3    11.01
Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-6    11.02
Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-7    11.02
Ch. 1, Art. II, § 2-8    11.03
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-1   10.03
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-10  10.11
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-25  10.06
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-26  10.07
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-30  10.08
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-40  10.09
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-50  10.99
Ch. 1, Art. III, § 3-60  10.10
Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-1     30.01
Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-2     30.02
Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-3     30.03
Ch. 2, Art. I, § 1-4     30.04
Ch. 2, Art. I, § 2       30.05
Ch. 2, Art. II, § 1      30.15
Ch. 2, Art. II, § 2      30.16
Ch. 2, Art. II, § 3      30.17
Ch. 2, Art. II, § 4      30.18
Ch. 2, Art. III, § 1     30.30
Ch. 2, Art. III, § 2     30.31
Ch. 2, Art. IV, § 1      31.01
Ch. 2, Art. IV, § 3      31.03
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 1-1     33.01
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 1-2     33.02
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 3-1     33.30
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 3-2     33.31
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 4-1     33.03
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 5-1     33.45
Ch. 2, Art. V, § 5-2     33.46
Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-1     32.001
Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-2     32.002
Ch. 3, Art. I, § 1-3     32.003
Ch. 3, Art. I, § 2-1     32.015
Ch. 3, Art. I, § 2-2     32.016
Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-1    32.030
Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-2    32.031
Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-3    32.032
Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-4    32.033
Ch. 3, Art. II, § 1-5    32.034
Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-1   32.045
Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-2   32.046
Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-3   32.047
Ch. 3, Art. III, § 1-4   32.048
Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-1    32.060
Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-2    32.061
Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-3    32.062
Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-4    32.063
Ch. 3, Art. IV, § 1-5    32.064
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-1     32.075
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-2     32.075
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-3     32.076
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-4     32.077
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-5     32.078
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-6     32.079
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-7     32.080
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-8     32.081
Ch. 3, Art. V, § 1-9     32.082
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1       35.01
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-2     35.02
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-3     35.03
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-4     35.04
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-5     35.05
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-6     35.06
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-7     35.07
Ch. 4, Art. I, § 1-8     35.08
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-1    93.01
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-2    93.99
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-3    93.02
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-4    93.03
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-5    93.04
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 1-6    93.05
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-1    93.15
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-2    93.16
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 2-3    93.17
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-1    93.30
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-2    93.31
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-3    93.32
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-4    93.33
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-5    93.34
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 3-6    93.35
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-1    93.50
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-2    93.51
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-3    93.52
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-4    93.53
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-5    93.54
Ch. 4, Art. II, § 4-6    93.99
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-1   94.01
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-2   94.01
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 1-3   94.01
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-1   94.02
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-2   94.02
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 2-3   94.02
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-1   94.03
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-2   94.03
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 3-3   94.03
Ch. 4, Art. III, § 4     94.99
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-1    70.01
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-2    70.02
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-3    70.03
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-4    70.04
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 1-5    70.05
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 2-1    71.01
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 2-2    71.02
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-1    72.01
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-2    72.02
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-4    72.03
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5    71.99
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5    71.03
Ch. 4, Art. IV, § 3-5-2  72.03
Ch. 5, Art. III, § 1-1   150.01
Ch. 5, Art. III, § 2     150.05
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1       51.01
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-1     51.02
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-2     51.03
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-3     51.04
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-4     51.05
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 1-5     51.06
Ch. 6, Art. I, § 2-4     51.99
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 1      51.30
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-1    51.31
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-2    51.32
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-3    51.33
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-5    51.35
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-6    51.36
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-7    51.37
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-8    51.38
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-9    51.39
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-10   51.40
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-11   51.40
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-12   51.41
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 2-13   51.42
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-1    51.44
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-2    51.44
Ch. 6, Art. II, § 4-3    51.44
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-1   92.01
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-2   92.02
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-3   92.03
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-4   92.04
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-5   92.05
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-6   92.06
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-7   92.09
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 1-8   92.10
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-1   92.20
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-2   92.21
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-3   92.22
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-4   92.23
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-6   92.24
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-7   92.25
Ch. 6, Art. III, § 2-8   92.26
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-1     34.01
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-2     34.02
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-3     34.03
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-4     34.04
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-5     34.05
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-6     34.06
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-7     34.07
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 1-8     34.08
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-1     34.20
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-2     34.21
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-3     34.22
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 2-5     34.24
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-1     34.35
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-2     34.36
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-3     34.37
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-4     34.38
Ch. 7, Art. I, § 3-5     34.39
Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-1     50.01
Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-2     50.02
Ch. 8, Art. I, § 1-3     50.02
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-1    52.01
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-2    52.02
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-3    52.03
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-4    52.04
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-5    52.05
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-6    52.06
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 1-7    52.07
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 2-1    52.08
Ch. 8, Art. II, § 3      52.09
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 1-3   53.01
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 1-4   53.02
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 2-1   53.04
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 2-2   53.04
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-1   53.05
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-2   53.05
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-3   53.05
Ch. 8, Art. III, § 3-4   53.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-1    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-2    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-10   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-11   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-12   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-13   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-14   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-15   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-16   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-17   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-18   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-19   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-20   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-21   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-22   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-23   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-24   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-25   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-26   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-27   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-28   54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-3    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-4    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-5    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-6    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-7    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-8    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 1-9    54.01
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 10-1   54.99
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-1    54.02
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-2    54.02
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-3    54.02
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 2-4    54.02
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-1    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-2    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-3    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-4    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-5    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-6    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 3-7    54.03
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-1    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-2    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-3    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-4    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-5    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-6    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-7    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-8    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-9    54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-10   54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-11   54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 4-12   54.04
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-1    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-2    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-3    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-4    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-5    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-6    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-7    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-8    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 5-9    54.05
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-1    54.06
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-2    54.06
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-3    54.06
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-4    54.06
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 6-5    54.06
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-1    54.07
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-2    54.07
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 7-3    54.07
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 8-1    54.08
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 9-1    54.09
Ch. 8, Art. IV, § 9-2    54.09
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-1     91.99
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-2     91.01
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-11    91.15
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-12    91.16
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-13    91.17
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-21    91.30
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-22    91.31
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-23    91.32
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-24    91.33
Ch. 8, Art. V, § 3-25    91.34
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-1     112.01
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-2     112.02
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 1-3     112.03
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 2-2     112.15
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-2     112.31
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-3     112.32
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-4     112.33
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-5     112.34
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-6     112.35
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-7     112.36
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-8     112.37
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-9     112.38
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-10    112.39
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-11    112.40
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-12    112.41
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-13    112.42
Ch. 9, Art. I, § 3-14    112.99
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.1 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.2 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.3 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.4 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.5 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.6 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.7 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.8 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.9 111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.10111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-1.11111.01
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-10  111.05
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-11  111.05
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-12  111.06
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-2   111.02
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-3   111.02
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-4   111.03
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-5   111.03
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-6   111.03
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-7   111.04
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-8   111.05
Ch. 10, Art. II, § 2-9   111.05
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-1  130.001
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-2  130.002
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-3  130.003
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-5  130.004
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-6  130.005
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-7  130.006
Ch. 10, Art. III, § 3-8  130.007
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-1   130.020
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-2   130.021
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-3   130.022
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-4   130.023
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-5   130.024
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-6   130.025
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-7   130.026
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-8   130.027
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-9   130.028
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-10  130.029
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-12  130.031
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-13  130.032
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-14  130.033
Ch. 10, Art. IV, § 4-15  130.034
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-1    130.045
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-2    130.046
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-3    130.047
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-4    130.048
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-5    130.049
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-6    130.050
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-7    130.051
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-8    130.052
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-9    130.053
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-10   130.054
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-11   130.055
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-12   130.055
Ch. 10, Art. V, § 5-13   130.056
Ch. 10, Art. VI, § 6-1   130.070
Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-1  130.080
Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-2  130.081
Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-3  130.082
Ch. 10, Art. VII, § 7-4  130.083
Ch. 10, Art. VIII, § 8-1 130.095
Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-1    90.01
Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-2    90.02
Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-3    90.03
Ch. 11, Art. I, § 1-4    90.99
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         4-5-1988    50.15
-         5-29-1990   50.15
-         8-21-1990   50.15
-         6-13-1991   50.15
-         8-8-1991    111.02
-         9-17-1991   130.095
-         11-19-1991  130.034
-         12-15-1992  53.05
                      50.15,
-         3-17-1992   51.36,
                      111.06
-         6-17-1997   130.057,
                      130.999
-         3-1-1998    50.15
-         3-17-1998   53.02
-         2-16-1999   152.01–
                      152.04
                      153.001–
                      153.008,
                      153.020–
                      153.032,
                      153.045–
                      153.061,
-         4-20-1999   153.075–
                      153.081,
                      153.095–
                      153.098,
                      153.110–
                      153.112,
                      153.125–
                      153.128
99-003    6-15-1999   53.03
99-005    10-13-1999  33.30
99-010    12-21-1999  50.15
99-011    12-21-1999  50.15
99-012    12-21-1999  92.06
-         10-17-2000  31.04
00-2      3-21-2000   51.34
-         7-1-2000    52.03,
                      53.04
-         5-15-2001   36.01–
                      36.03
-         10-16-2001  51.36,
                      51.39
-         6-17-2002   51.32
-         6-18-2002   51.33,
                      51.99
-         3-18-2003   150.02–
                      150.04
-         7-20-2004   50.15
-         8-17-2004   52.03
-         8-15-2006   50.15,
                      52.07
-         9-1-2006    33.03
-         10-30-2006  50.15
-         3-20-2007   55.01
130.048   6-16-2009   130.048
-         6-16-2009   112.03,
                      112.30
                      51.15–
-         6-16-2009   51.19,
                      51.99
31.05     2-23-2010   31.05
-         10-19-2010  34.21
-         10-19-2010  52.05
30.19     11-26-2010  30.19
-         6-19-2011   53.02
154.04    9-1-2013    34.50–
                      34.54
30.33     11-19-2013  30.33
                      92.01,
-         5-20-2014   92.06–
                      92.08
                      113.01,
                      113.02,
-         7-15-2014   113.15–
                      113.22,
                      113.99
-         9-16-2014   92.04
-         1-20-2015   91.35,
                      91.36
                      92.01,
-         3-17-2015   92.06,
                      92.11,
                      92.12
-         4-19-2016   72.01,
                      72.02
-         6-28-2016   52.03
-         6-28-2016   53.04
-         - -         56.01 -
                      56.12
                      153.001–
                      153.004,
                      153.015–
                      153.020,
                      153.035–
                      153.047,
                      153.060–
                      153.077,
                      153.090–
                      153.096,
-         - -         153.110–
                      153.113,
                      153.125–
                      153.128,
                      153.140–
                      153.143,
                      153.155–
                      153.158,
                      153.170–
                      153.172,
                      153.185–
                      153.187
51.46     7-18-2017   51.45
2017-03   11-21-2017  33.15
-         1-16-2018   113.15–
                      113.29
-         2-1-2018    51.43
-         6-19-2018   50.15
-         6-19-2018   52.03,
                      52.07
-         6-19-2018   53.04
-         6-19-2018   54.10
-         6-19-2018   30.30
                      110.01-
-         9-25-2018   110.19, App.
                      A -
                      C
2018.1120 12-18-2018  72.01
                     
 
