SOUTH CONGAREE, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 20-22, passed 10-20-2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
of
SOUTH CONGAREE, SOUTH CAROLINA
Mayor and Council
Mayor - Cindy S. Campbell
Mayor Pro Tem - Kitty Spires
 
Brian Jackson - Council Member
Debbie McIver - Council Member
Dwayne Prosser - Council Member
Municipal Clerk - Kerri Charlton
Clerk of Court - Vacant
Chief of Police - Steven Jonas
 
CHARTER
Click on the link below to view a PDF file of the Town Charter.
Town_Charter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Designation and citation
   
10.02   Continuation of existing ordinances
   
10.03   Definitions
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Catchlines
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Effect of repeal or expiration
   
10.08   Amendments
   
10.09   Altering the code
   
10.10   Liability for violations
   
10.11   Prosecution for different penalties
   
10.12   Acts prohibited or punishable
   
10.13   Municipal uniform ordinance summons
   
10.14   Ordinance required
   
10.15   Codification of ordinance
   
10.16   Notice required
   
10.17   Form
   
10.18   Introduction of ordinance
   
10.19   Introduction of resolutions
   
10.20   Enactment of ordinances
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 DESIGNATION AND CITATION.
   The ordinances embraced in this and following chapters and sections
constitute and are designated as “The Code of Ordinances of South Congaree,
South Carolina,” and may be so cited. They may be cited also as the “South
Congaree Town Code” or “The Town Code of South Congaree.”
§ 10.02 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, as far as they are the same as those
ordinances existing at the time of the adoption hereof, shall be considered as
a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
§ 10.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND or OR. The word AND may be read as OR and OR may be read as AND where
the sense requires it.
   BOND. When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
   CLERK. The employee designated to perform the functions of Town Clerk
pursuant to state law.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, and if the last day
be a Sunday or a legal holiday, that shall be excluded.
   CORPORATE LIMITS or CORPORATION LIMITS or TOWN LIMITS. The legal boundary of
the Town of South Congaree.
   COUNCIL or TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of South Congaree,
South Carolina.
   COUNTY. The County of Lexington in the State of South Carolina.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to be construed
to authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required
inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   INTERPRETATION. In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it is held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion
of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where
any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter
than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the
greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three (3) or more
persons or offices shall be construed as to giving the authority to a majority
of the persons or officers.
   KEEPER AND PROPRIETOR. Include persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent or employee.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of South Congaree.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of South Congaree.
   NAME OF OFFICER. Whenever the name of an officer is given it shall be
construed as though the words “of the Town of South Congaree” were added.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases are construed according
to the common and approved usage of the language; but TECHNICAL WORDS and
phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular number include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular number.
   OATH, SWEAR, SWORN. The word OATH shall be construed to include an
affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted
for an OATH, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be equivalent
to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICERS, AGENTS, THINGS AND PLACES OF THE TOWN. Unless a contrary intention
appears, the officer, agents, employees and other persons, things and places
situated in the town or employed by or appertaining to the town or subject to
the jurisdiction thereof.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or part of the building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real property,
as defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. Place or places.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any park, cemetery, schoolyard or open space adjacent thereto.
   REAL PROPERTY and REAL ESTATE. Land, tenements and hereditament.
   RESIDENCE. The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation,
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one (1) place and sleeps at another, the place
where the person sleeps shall be deemed his or her residence.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular traffic.
   SEAL. The town or corporate seal.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line, or the lateral line
of a roadway where there is no curb, and the adjacent property line intended
for pedestrian use.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of South Carolina.
   STREET. Avenues, boulevards, highways, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
bridges and approaches thereto and all other public thoroughfares in the town,
and shall mean the entire width thereof between opposed abutting property
lines. It shall be construed to include a sidewalk or foot path, unless the
contrary is expressed or unless the construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the Town Council.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or part of the building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   TOWN, CITY, CORPORATION. The Town of South Congaree in the County of
Lexington and the State of South Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   WRITING. Printing and any other mode of representing words and letters.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   As used in this code and all ordinances, in all cases in which the spirit
and intent may require it, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Any word importing the singular number shall be held to include the
plural and all words in the plural shall apply also to the singular.
   (B)   All words importing the masculine gender shall apply to females also
and words in the feminine gender shall apply to males.
   (C)   All words importing the present tense shall apply to the future also.
§ 10.05 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code, printed in capital
letters, are intended as mere catchwords to indicate or emphasize the contents
of the sections, not as any part of the section nor, unless expressly so
provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are ended or reenacted.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council, that if any
section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code shall be declared
unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions and sections of this code since the same
would have been enacted without the incorporation in this code of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, division or section.
§ 10.07 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION.
   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any provision
contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense committed,
any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced before the
repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to the adoption of this code, which
amend, repeal or in any way affect this code, shall be numbered in accordance
with the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein. In the
case of repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof by
subsequent ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in substantially the following, but not necessarily the exact, language:
“that §           (number to be inserted) of the Town Code of The Town of South
Congaree is hereby amended as follows: .”
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language may be used: “that the South Congaree Town
Code, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered §           
(number to be inserted), which section shall read as follows: .” The new
section shall then be set out in full as enacted, and the sections of this code
may be renumbered to accomplish the intention.
   (D)   All divisions, sections, chapters or provisions to be repealed shall
be specifically repealed by division, section or chapter number, as the case
may be.
§ 10.09 ALTERING THE CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code or to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof or to alter or tamper with this code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the laws of this municipality to be misrepresented thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.10 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation of this code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization while acting within the scope of his or her office or employment,
shall, in every case, also be deemed to be a violation by the corporation,
association or organization.
   (B)   Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as the corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any provision of this code, where
the violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or
order of any person.
§ 10.11 PROSECUTION FOR DIFFERENT PENALTIES.
   In all cases where the same offense may be created by different clauses or
sections of the ordinances of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense.
§ 10.12 ACTS PROHIBITED OR PUNISHABLE.
   In the construction of this code and of all ordinances of the town, all acts
prohibited or punishable under this code or under any particular ordinance
shall, unless a contrary intent appears, be construed to refer to the acts when
committed or occurring within the limits of the town or in other places over
which the Town Municipal Court and town police have authority or jurisdiction
under the laws of the state, even though the code or the particular ordinance
only provides that the acts shall be prohibited or punishable and shall not
specifically designate the jurisdiction or scope thereof.
§ 10.13 MUNICIPAL UNIFORM ORDINANCE SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity violating any provision of the code, or any code
adopted pursuant thereto, within the corporate limits of the town may be issued
a uniform ordinance summons. Issuance of the uniform ordinance summons shall
vest jurisdiction in the Municipal Court to hear and dispose of the charge for
which the uniform ordinance summons was issued and served. The uniform
ordinance summons may be issued by any town law enforcement officer or any
other town employees designated by the Council as code enforcement officers.
The bond amount for violations shall be prescribed by the Chief Municipal Court
Judge. Town law enforcement or code enforcement officers are prohibited from
accepting bonds. Bonds are to be posted in the manner prescribed in the uniform
ordinance summons. The uniform ordinance summons shall not be used to perform a
custodial arrest. The ordinance summons shall contain a notice that failure to
appear before the court as required, without first posting bond is a
misdemeanor punishable by fine of $500 or 30 days in jail.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any ordinance which regulates the use
of motor vehicles on the public roads.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Town Council shall act by ordinance in all matters required by law
to be done by ordinance, including when it shall:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code of ordinances, create, alter
or abolish any town department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or
regulation in which a fine or other penalty is imposed for violation;
      (3)   Appropriate funds and adopt a budget;
      (4)   Grant, renew or extend franchises, licenses or rights in public
streets or public property, closed or abandoned streets;
      (5)   Authorize the borrowing of money or the issuance of bonds;
      (6)   Levy taxes, assess property for improvement or establish charges
for services;
      (7)   Annex area to the town;
      (8)   Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands
of the town; and
      (9)   Amend or repeal any ordinance described in divisions (1) through
(8) above.
   (B)   All other matters the Council may act either by ordinance or
resolution recorded in the minutes.
(1985 Code, § 1-31)
§ 10.15 CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   All ordinances relating to administration, streets, franchises, traffic,
railroads, crimes and offenses, utilities, solicitations, pollution, municipal
court, descriptions of areas annexed to the town and any other ordinances or
portions of ordinances so required by the Council shall be codified and updated
annually in a looseleaf Code of Ordinances. Standard codes, technical
regulations and zoning ordinances may be cited in the code by reference and
copies thereof shall be made available by the Municipal Clerk for distribution
or for purchase at a reasonable price.
(1985 Code, § 1-32)
§ 10.16 NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Prior to the introduction of an ordinance granting a franchise, license or
right for the use of any street or public property, or for the permanent
closing of any abandoned street, the applicant for an ordinance shall publish a
notice in three (3) issues of a newspaper having general circulation in the
town stating the nature of the franchise, license or right sought or a
description of the street sought to be closed, and the date on which the
application is to be presented to the Council which shall be at least one (1)
week after the last notice. This requirement shall not apply to the temporary
closing of a public street initiated by the Council.
(1985 Code, § 1-33)
§ 10.17 FORM.
   (A)   Every proposed ordinance shall be introduced in writing and in the
form required for final adoption which shall include:
      (1)   A title briefly describing the content;
      (2)   Findings, reasons or basis for the ordinance, if desired and
appropriate;
      (3)   An enacting clause;
      (4)   Citation of any ordinance repealed;
      (5)   The provisions of the ordinance including section numbers if the
ordinance is to be codified or amends an existing codified ordinance;
      (6)   The effective date of the ordinance; and
      (7)   Space for the signatures of the Mayor
or presiding member of Council and the Municipal Clerk attesting notice, if
required, and adoption.
   (B)   Written resolutions shall be in a similar form as deemed appropriate
by the town attorney.
(1985 Code, § 1-34)
§ 10.18 INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCE.
   An ordinance may be proposed by any member of the Town Council. A proposed
ordinance shall be referred to the town attorney for approval as to form. The
town attorney shall render assistance in the preparation of notices and
ordinances. After an ordinance is in proper form and required notices have been
given, the attorney shall send the ordinance to the Municipal Clerk to be held
for public inspection. An ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced when it
appears on an agenda.
(1985 Code, § 1-35)
§ 10.19 INTRODUCTION OF RESOLUTIONS.
   A voice motion of a member of the Town Council shall be considered to be the
introduction of an oral resolution of the Municipal Clerk in the Council
minutes. A resolution proposed in writing shall be introduced in the same
manner as an ordinance.
(1985 Code, § 1-36)
§ 10.20 ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An ordinance to levy tax, adopt a budget, appropriate funds, grant a
franchise, license or right to use or occupy a public street or public property
for commercial purposes shall be complete in the form in which it is finally
passed, and the form remain on file with the Municipal Clerk for public
inspection at least one (1) week before final adoption.
   (B)   No ordinance shall have the force of law until it shall have been read
two (2) times and on two (2) separate days with at least six (6) days between
each reading.
   (C)   To meet public emergencies affecting life, health, safety or the
property of the people, the Council may adopt emergency ordinances, but the
ordinances shall not levy taxes, grant, renew or extend a franchise or impose
or change a service rate. Every emergency ordinance shall be enacted by the
affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the members of Council
present. An emergency ordinance is effective immediately upon its enactment
without regard to any reading, public hearing, publication requirements, or
public notice requirements. Emergency ordinances shall expire automatically as
of day 61 following the date of enactment.
   (D)   The introduction and reading of any ordinance shall be by the reading
of the title only unless full reading is requested by a member of the Council.
   (E)   After the introduction of an ordinance, any member of the Council or
any citizen of the town interested therein may request a public hearing which
may be held at any time designated by the Council prior to final adoption.
   (F)   Upon final adoption by vote of the Council, an ordinance shall be
signed by the Mayor or presiding member and attested by the Municipal Clerk,
who shall file the original in the Council minutes.
(1985 Code, § 1-37)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order promulgated by any agency or officer thereof under
authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor, or the doing of any act
is required, where no specific penalty is provided for the violation thereof,
the violation of any provisions of this code, ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation or order shall be punished by a fine not less than $50 nor more than
$500, or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 30 days, or both. No
penalty shall exceed the penalty provided by state law for similar offenses.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) of this section,
any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this code or any such ordinance or resolution shall be deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated as provided by law, and each day that the
condition continues shall be regarded as a new and separate offense.
CHAPTER 11:
BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Enactment
   
11.02   Adoption of map
§ 11.01 ENACTMENT.
   The Town Council of South Congaree under the authority of the State of South
Carolina hereby establishes an official map to determine fairly and impartially
the boundaries of the town limits.
(1985 Code, § 1-91)
§ 11.02 ADOPTION OF MAP.
   It is hereby adopted as the official map of the Town of South Congaree the
map known as Land Development Map, No. 1001, until concrete evidence can prove
otherwise, on 3-6-1984.
(1985 Code, § 1-92)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNCIL MEETINGS
      
32.   TOWN POLICIES
      
33.   CIVIL DEFENSE DIVISION
      
34.   ELECTIONS
      
35.   [RESERVED]
      
36.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
37.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Town seal
   
30.03   Fiscal year
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tem
   
30.05   Establishment of offices
   
30.06   Voting
   
30.07   Council compensation and expenses
Social Security Benefits
   
30.20   Authorization
   
30.21   Withholding
   
30.22   Appropriations
   
30.23   Rules and regulations
   
30.24   Finance Officer’s duties
   
30.25   Agreement
   
30.26   Effective date
   
30.27   Exclusions
Town Administrator
   
30.30   Appointment
   
30.31   Term
   
30.32   Bond
   
30.33   General duties
   
30.34   Removal from office
   
30.35   Communication between Town Administrator and Town Council
Municipal Clerk
   
30.40   Appointment; term; salary
   
30.41   Bond
   
30.42   General duties
   
30.43   Removal of documents from Clerk’s custody
   
30.44   Suspension or removal from office
   
30.45   Filing of vacancy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The town shall utilize the Council form of municipal government with a Mayor
and four (4) Council members elected at large with staggered four (4) year
terms as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-11-10 through 5-11-40.
(1985 Code, § 1-1)
§ 30.02 TOWN SEAL.
   The Town Clerk shall be the custodian of the town's seal.
(1985 Code, § 1-2)
§ 30.03 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the town shall be on July 1 of each year, for the purpose
of accounting and auditing the town's finances.
(1985 Code, § 1-3)
§ 30.04 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   At the first meeting on each new Council organization (after each regular
election), the Council shall elect a Mayor Pro Tem who shall perform all the
duties pertaining to the office of Mayor in the absence of the Mayor due to
sickness, incapacity or other causes.
(1985 Code, § 1-4)
§ 30.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICES.
   The Town Council shall have the power to establish subordinate offices as it
sees fit and assign to the offices appropriate duties.
(1985 Code, § 1-5) (Am. Ord. passed 9-18-2012)
§ 30.06 VOTING.
   (A)   All members of Council including the Mayor have one (1) vote, the
majority rule of three (3) or more is required. The yeas and nays on any
question shall always be ordered, when required by two (2) members of Council,
and the Town Clerk shall call the roll and take the names of all who "aye" or
all who vote "no." During the call no member shall leave Council chambers.
   (B)   A member may be permitted to explain his or her vote only by leave of
majority of Council , and for the explanation be allowed five (5) minutes. If
so desired he or she may be recorded in the minutes.
   (C)   All actions of Council shall be by majority vote of members present at
a public meeting.
(1985 Code, § 1-6)
§ 30.07 COUNCIL COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The salary of the Mayor shall be $3,000 annually and the
salaries of the members of the Town Council shall be $1,500 annually.
      (2)   The aforesaid salaries shall be paid biannually on April 30 and
November 1 of each calendar year, and payment of the salaries shall be
contingent upon the availability of funds in the town treasury.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor and members of the Town Council shall be reimbursed
for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties
upon submission of signed expense reimbursement forms.
      (2)   Prior to payment of the expenses, reimbursement forms shall be
reviewed and approved by the Council on a monthly basis.
(1985 Code, § 1-16)
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
§ 30.20 AUTHORIZATION.
   The governing authority of this political subdivision of the state, to the
extent of its lawful authority and power, does hereby extend to its eligible
employees, and eligible groups and classes of the employees, the benefits
authorized by Title II of the Federal Social Security Act, as amended, and as
authorized by Act of 1954, approved 3-12-1954, for and on behalf of all the
officers and employees thereof and all of its departments and agencies, save
and except any of the officers and employees now covered or authorized to be
covered, by any retirement system provided by law for any employee or official
of this political subdivision, or any of its departments or agencies, or who
occupies any position, office, or employment not authorized to be covered by
applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1985 Code, § 5-1)
§ 30.21 WITHHOLDING.
   There shall be withheld from any salary or compensation due any officer or
employee not excepted as aforesaid whose compensation qualifies him or her to
participation therein the percentage of salary, wage or compensation to be
computed in case, quarters, subsistence or in kind, and reserved in the
treasury for monthly remittance to the state agency monthly as provided by law.
(1985 Code, § 5-2)
§ 30.22 APPROPRIATIONS.
   Under this subchapter, there is hereby required, and henceforth at the times
and in the manner provided by law required, that there be made regularly an
appropriation (or appropriations) from funds available to be appropriated for
salaries, wages and/or personal compensation from general and/or special funds
derived from ad valorem or any other sources, sums sufficient to pay promptly,
at the time and in the manner provided by law, the tax imposed on the Town of
South Congaree as employer under the conditions imposed by Title II of the
Social Security Act and acts of the South Carolina Legislature conforming
thereto, and to the extent the tax accrues against the employer it shall also
be transmitted monthly at the same time the tax on the officers and employees
subject thereto is transmitted to the lawfully designated state agency.
(1985 Code, § 5-3)
§ 30.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The rules and regulations of the state agent for the enforcement of the Act
shall be adhered to and that reports relating to personnel, payrolls, and
otherwise required by the state agent shall be promptly made and that
remittance of the tax on the employer and the employees shall be promptly paid
at the end of each month.
(1985 Code, § 5-4)
§ 30.24 FINANCE OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   The Town Finance Officer is hereby designated the custodian of all sums
withheld from the compensation of officers and employees and of the
appropriated funds for the tax upon the employer, and the employee is hereby
made the withholding and reporting agent and charged with the duty of
maintaining personnel records for the purposes of this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 5-5)
§ 30.25 AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The political subdivision, accordingly, by the adoption of this
subchapter, in full and ample manner by its lawfully constituted charter does
hereby authorize the South Congaree Town Council to make and enter into
agreement with the State of South Carolina, by and through its designated
Agent, Director of the South Carolina Retirement System, or his or her
authorized representative, in full accord with this subchapter and the Social
Security Act, as amended, and so afford its benefits to the officers and
employees of this political subdivision in the manner by the law provided.
   (B)   A copy of this subchapter fully executed as in original, duly attested
the Town Clerk with the seal of the political subdivision attached, be
furnished to the Director, South Carolina Retirement System, to be attached to
the contract.
(1985 Code, § 5-6)
§ 30.26 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date to be 7-1-1985.
(1985 Code, § 5-7)
§ 30.27 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following exclusions are hereby taken by Town Council:
   (A)   Part time employees;
   (B)   Elected officials; and
   (C)   Fee basis.
(1985 Code, § 5-8)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.30 APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Administrator and fix his or her
compensation. He or she shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her
executive and administrative qualifications.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.31 TERM.
   The Town Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of Town Council for an
indefinite term.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.32 BOND.
   The Town Administrator shall enter into an approved bond in such sum as
prescribed by Town Council, conditioned for the faithful and honest performance
of that office. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the town.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.33 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Town Administrator shall be responsible to Town Council for the proper
administration of the policies and affairs of the town, and to that end shall
have the power and authority and be required to:
   (A)   Direct, supervise and coordinate administrative activities and
operations;
   (B)   Make recommendations to Town Council regarding the appointment of
department heads;
   (C)   Make recommendations to Town Council regarding the appointment of
other town employees;
   (D)   Make recommendations to Town Council to suspend or dismiss department
heads. Suspend and dismiss department heads with approval from Town Council;
   (E)   Make recommendations to Town Council to suspend or dismiss other
employees. Suspend and dismiss other employees with approval from Town Council;
   (F)   Prepare and submit an annual operating budget and capital program to
Town Council for its consideration and approval;
   (G)   Have responsibility for the administration of the annual operating
budget after its adoption;
   (H)   Prepare and update a capital improvement program and budget for six
(6) months, two (2) years, five (5) years and ten (10) years;
   (I)   Recommend and administer personnel policies, classification,
compensation and evaluations for all employees;
   (J)   Monitor the financial condition of the town and estimate present and
future financial needs;
   (K)   Prepare a quarterly analysis on personnel and administrative
activities;
   (L)   Prepare a quarterly analysis on the financial position of the town;
   (M)   Recommend, as necessary, to combine or consolidate job positions
within departments to maximize manpower utilization and efficiency;
   (N)   Recommend and administer policies governing purchasing procedures and
inventory control;
   (O)   Authorize the purchase of services, materials, supplies and equipment
that do not require the taking of bids, provided such items are appropriated in
the town’s various fund accounts;
   (P)   Authorize shifts in departmental budget line items, provided overall
departmental budgetappropriations do not change, with approval of the Mayor and
Council;
   (Q)   Investigate complaints concerning administrative matters and personnel
performance with the heads of departments;
   (R)   Prepare and submit to the Mayor and Council, at the end of each fiscal
year, a complete annual report of the finances and administrative activities of
the town;
   (S)   May, with the approval of Town Council, delegate to other
administrative officers, subject to his or her direction and supervision, the
authority to exercise specified duties and responsibilities as may be
considered appropriate;
   (T)   Provide Town Council with information, guidance and leadership in
matters of policy determination;
   (U)   Actively investigate the opportunities and position of the town in
relation to grants, state and county-shared services and resources, and prepare
the necessary documents upon approval of Town Council;
   (V)   Such other duties as Town Council sees fit to assign to the Town
Administrator or as required by state law.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.34 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Town Administrator may be removed from office by a majority vote of Town
Council. Those members voting for removal shall state their reasons for their
vote. The action of Town Council in removing the Town Administrator shall be
final.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.35 COMMUNICATION BETWEEN TOWN ADMINISTRATOR AND TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Administrator shall relate to and communicate with Town Council on
any and all problems, situations and conditions that arise concerning any
department or activity of the town that, in the opinion of the Administrator,
is of significance. At any time, Town Council may inquire with the Town
Administrator on any and all problems, situations and conditions that arise
concerning any department or activity of the town.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
MUNICIPAL CLERK
§ 30.40 APPOINTMENT; TERM; SALARY.
   The Municipal Clerk shall be appointed by the Town Council, and shall serve
that office indefinitely or until a successor is appointed and qualified. The
Clerk shall receive a salary and expenses at a sum to be fixed by Council for
any service performed as Clerk.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.41 BOND.
   Prior to entering into the performance of the duties of the office, the
Municipal Clerk shall enter into a bond with good and sufficient surety,
conditioned for the faithful and honest performance of the duties of that
office. The cost of the bond shall be paid by the town.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.42 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Municipal Clerk’s general duties shall include:
   (A)   Be the general accountant for the town;
   (B)   Attend all meetings of the Town Council;
   (C)   Take and maintain all official minutes of Council meetings and record
in a defined manner;
   (D)   Provide Council with all communications addressed to it through the
Municipal Clerk;
   (E)   Have charge of and be responsible for the preservation of all papers,
records and documents of every description pertaining to the town;
   (F)   Be the custodian of the official town seal;
   (G)   Issue all notices, personal and general, that the interest,
convenience, laws and orders of the town require in the administration of its
government;
   (H)   Communicate to the Council all information the Clerk may acquire that
may contribute to the efficiency of the government and the welfare of the
people;
   (I)   Collect all taxes, fines, fees and licenses, and pay all legal checks
drawn upon the town;
   (J)   Receive and provide receipt for all revenues of the town from all
sources;
   (K)   Provide a monthly financial statement to the Council and any other
information as may be requested by the Council;
   (L)   Sign and attest all ordinances, deeds, contracts and other documents
as directed; and
   (M)   Perform all duties that are now or may hereafter be required by
Council or state law.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.43 REMOVAL OF DOCUMENTS FROM CLERK’S CUSTODY.
   No original paper or document of the town shall be taken from the custody of
the Municipal Clerk, except upon order of the Mayor and Council or Town
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 30.44 SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Municipal Clerk may be suspended or removed by the Town Council
upon a majority vote of the entire Council.
   (B)   At the time of such suspension or removal, written notice shall be
provided to the Municipal Clerk of Council action and reasons for it by the
Mayor and Council within three (3) days.
   (C)   The Municipal Clerk may request within ten days of receipt of such
notice a public hearing on the suspension or removal. The public hearing must
be held within ten (10) days of such request following public notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town. Actions of the Council in a
public hearing, if called, are final.
   (D)   Should the Municipal Clerk not be suspended or removed following a
public hearing, he or she shall receive retroactive pay to the date of
suspension or removal.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2013)
§ 30.45 FILING OF VACANCY.
   Should a vacancy occur in the position of Municipal Clerk, that post should
be filled within six (6) months.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2013)
CHAPTER 31:
COUNCIL MEETINGS
Section
   
31.01   Time, date of regular meeting
   
31.02   Presiding officer; order of business
   
31.03   Deciding questions of order
   
31.04   Absence of quorum
   
31.05   Introduction of petitions, complaints and motions
   
31.06   Agenda
   
31.07   Special meetings
§ 31.01 TIME, DATE OF REGULAR MEETING.
   (A)   The regular meeting of the Town Council shall be held on the third
Tuesday of each month, at 6:30 p.m.
   (B)   Should this date fall on a holiday, the meeting will be automatically
postponed to the following Tuesday.
(1985 Code, § 1-8) (Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2009)
§ 31.02 PRESIDING OFFICER; ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Immediately at the hour appointed for Council meetings, the person
designated by Council shall preside, and if a quorum is present, the business
shall proceed in the following order:
   (A)   Invocation/pledge allegiance;
   (B)   Reading of the minutes;
   (C)   Reading of any petitions or communications;
   (D)   Report from committees;
   (E)   Business tabled or not concluded before;
   (F)   New business;
   (G)   Introduction of ordinances or resolutions;
   (H)   Reports from town officers;
   (I)   Miscellaneous business not included in proceedings;
   (J)   Public comments; and
   (K)   Executive session.
(1985 Code, § 1-9) (Am. Ord. 2015-1, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 31.03 DECIDING QUESTIONS OF ORDER.
   All questions of order at a Council meeting shall be decided upon by the
presiding officer, without debate, subject to an appeal to the Council.
(1985 Code, § 1-10) (Am. Ord. 2015-1, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 31.04 ABSENCE OF QUORUM.
   If a quorum of the Council fails to appear within 15 minutes after the hour
appointed for Council meeting, no member shall be required to attend any
longer.
(1985 Code, § 1-11)
§ 31.05 INTRODUCTION OF PETITIONS, COMPLAINTS AND MOTIONS.
   No petition, complaint or communication to the town shall be introduced
unless it is in writing.
(1985 Code, § 1-12)
§ 31.06 AGENDA.
   Matters to be considered by Council at a regular meeting shall be placed on
a written agenda and posted 24 hours before the meeting. Matters not on the
agenda may be considered at the request of a member unless objected to by two
(2) members. Any citizen of the municipality is entitled to an appearance
before Council at any regular meeting with the exception of personnel matters.
Persons desiring to speak must notify the Town Clerk prior to the beginning of
the meeting.
(1985 Code, § 1-13)
§ 31.07 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings can be called by the Mayor or Council. Notice of a special
meeting shall be given immediately to all members and posted for the public.
(1985 Code, § 1-14)
CHAPTER 32:
TOWN POLICIES
Section
Travel Policy
   
32.01   Policy
   
32.02   Town Council and department heads
   
32.03   Other employees
Procurement Code
   
32.15   Guidelines subject to revision
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Authority and responsibility
   
32.18   Policies
   
32.19   Invitation for bids
   
32.20   Public notice
   
32.21   Bid opening
   
32.22   Bid acceptance
   
32.23   Correction or withdrawal of bids
   
32.24   Gasoline purchases
   
32.25   Additional funding
Debt Collection
   
32.40   Recovery of collection costs
   
Appendix: Procurement flow chart
TRAVEL POLICY
§ 32.01 POLICY.
   The Town Council of the Town of South Congaree recognizes that travel and
conference attendance in behalf of the town is necessary, desirable, and
unavoidable in the proper and official pursuit of town business. All employees
are encouraged to continue professional development through participation in
conferences and community involvement. All meetings, conferences and the like,
away from South Congaree should be budget approved. Meetings that are not
approved through the budget process must be approved by the Town Council or
department head before attendance is scheduled. To this end, and to effect a
uniform policy regarding related expenses, the following shall constitute the
official policy for the Town of South Congaree for all authorized official town
travel.
(1985 Code, § 1-52)
§ 32.02 TOWN COUNCIL AND DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   A per diem of $35 dollars shall be paid for each day which involves an
overnight stay away from the city. The per diem shall cover meals, inner-city
cab fares and other inner-city travel expenses and the like, including
incidentals.
   (B)   The town shall pay actual air or rail transportation cost, computed at
tourist class rates, plus cab fares to and from the airport. The town shall
also pay actual hotel room cost and conference registration fees.
   (C)   When a personal car is used on relatively short trips, at the option
of the member, the town shall pay the prevailing rate for reimbursement of the
state government for the use thereof, less the total of any charges made on a
town credit card, if any.
   (D)   (1)   Should the above per diem prove inadequate, the member may upon
his or her return, file with the Finance Officer an itemized accounting, with
supporting data (invoices, receipts and the like), for consideration of
reimbursement.
      (2)   This must be approved by Town Council or the appropriate department
head before submitting.
(1985 Code, § 1-53)
§ 32.03 OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   (1)   For all other employees, actual expenses shall be itemized on an
official expense form available from the Finance Officer and signed by the
appropriate town department head prior to submission for reimbursement.
      (2)   Travel in personal vehicles shall be at the prevailing state
government reimbursement rate, less the total of any charges made on a town
credit card, if any.
      (3)   A town credit card shall be utilized when available.
   (B)   (1)   Employees may choose to request an advance for expenses, based
on either per diem rates or expected expenses.
      (2)   An itemized listing of expenses, with receipts, must be submitted
with the request for the balance of reimbursement requested or unexpended funds
after the trip is complete.
(1985 Code, § 1-54)
PROCUREMENT CODE
§ 32.15 GUIDELINES SUBJECT TO REVISION.
   (A)   This procurement subchapter is intended for use as a guide to town
purchasing methods. When used with good judgement and common sense, the
policies and procedures established herein will enable the town to obtain
needed equipment, supplies and services in an efficient and economical manner.
   (B)   The cooperation of all employees is essential if the town is to obtain
maximum value for each tax dollar spent. While this subchapter does not answer
all questions related to purchasing, it does provide the foundation for a sound
centralized purchasing system.
   (C)   The material is subject to revision to meet changing developments in
the field of purchasing and in the economy. Within these limits, the subchapter
should provide the basic information for town employees involved in purchasing.
Those involved should be familiar with and adhere to the guidelines set forth
herein.
(1985 Code, § 1-61)
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The Town Finance Officer or his or her designee who is
authorized and responsible for the purchasing of equipment, supplies, and
services for town use.
   TOWN. The Town of South Congaree, South Carolina.
   TOWN AGENCY. Any department or division of town government.
(1985 Code, § 1-62)
§ 32.17 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   To be fully effective, the authority and responsibility for
maintaining a centralized purchasing program or system must reside in the town
purchasing agent and his or her immediate staff.
      (2)   This places the responsibility on those who have the interest and
skill to do the procedural work properly.
      (3)   It also permits the establishment of uniform policies covering
town-vendor relationships as well as inter-department relationships and it
permits adequate controls over expenditures.
   (B)   The express purpose of this subchapter is to establish a set of
policies designed to guide the decision process as it relates to the
procurement of equipment, supplies, and services for use by the town.
(1985 Code, § 1-71)
§ 32.18 POLICIES.
   (A)   Centralized purchasing. It shall be the policy of the town to maintain
a centralized purchasing process with the Municipal Clerk as purchasing agent.
It shall be the purchasing agent's responsibility to administer purchasing
policies, institute reports necessary to permit analysis or purchasing
performance, negotiate and approve term contracts in concert with town
agencies, consolidate purchases of like or common items, analyze prices paid
for materials and equipment, and generally define how to obtain saving and to
coordinate purchasing procedures.
   (B)   Source of supply. The Municipal Clerk shall select sources of supply
in concert with the appropriate town agency. This shall be accomplished with a
view toward creating good vendor relations and promoting the best interests of
the town. The town recognizes that frankness and fair dealings establish strong
and lasting relationships with suppliers. As a general policy, purchases shall
be awarded with local vendor preference on the basis of availability, best
price, delivery and quality taking into consideration the reputation and
performance capability of the suppliers.
   (C)   Commitment. In concert with town agencies, the Municipal Clerk shall
conduct, and on approval from Council, conclude all negotiations affecting
vendor selection, prices, terms, delivery and the like. Commitments and orders,
to be valid, shall be stated by letter, contract or purchase order signed by
the Municipal Clerk/Mayor.
   (D)   Surplus material. Agency/department heads shall advise the Municipal
Clerk/Council in writing of any equipment or supplies not needed and which
might be transferred to another agency/department for their use.
   (E)   Sale of town's personal property. Only the Municipal Clerk/Council is
authorized to sell supplies which have become unsuitable for public use or to
exchange the same for, or trade in the same on new supplies. Surplus supplies
will be sold on a competitive basis to the highest bidder.
   (F)   Maintenance contracts. The Municipal Clerk will maintain all records
and information concerning town maintenance agreements. Before renewing any
agreement, the Municipal Clerk will check with the department/agency head to
determine if the agreement should be renewed. Agreements found to be
unnecessary will be terminated. Department/agency heads will advise the
Municipal Clerk/Council of any change in the status of items covered by
maintenance agreements.
   (G)   Limited purchase allowance. It is recognized that the purpose of a
formalized purchasing procedure could be undermined by lost opportunity and
time if required for incidental purchases. Therefore, the Town Council
expressly delegates a limited purchase allowance to the following persons:
 
Person             Budgeted Allowance Non- budgeted Allowance
Chief of Police    $300               $150
Municipal Clerk    $300               $150
Mayor              $500               $300
Town Administrator $500               $300
 
   (H)   Bids (invitation for bids or IFB) and request for quotations (RFQ).
Except as otherwise provided herein, when the estimated cost of a procurement
exceeds $2,500, an invitation for bids or request for quotations will be made
from at least three (3) vendors.
   (I)   Procurement. To be included in this chapter as a vital part of the
procurement process is the procurement flow chart (See Appendix) which allows
the Mayor to approve budgeted expenditures $500 or less and non-budgeted $300
or less, but requires Council approval of budgeted expenditures $501 and over
and non-budgeted $301 and over and gives the actual procurement process.
   (J)   Fiscal responsibility. Every procurement purchase or contract,
modification, change order or contract price adjustment in excess of $50 shall
be to prior approval as to the effect of this action on the current fiscal
budget reported by the Municipal Clerk.
   (K)   Budget. All expenditures are to be adhered to as closely as possible
within the realm of the annual fiscal budget which is approved every year by
Council.
   (L)   Evaluation. Evaluations of vendors, contracts and bids shall be
objectively measurable for discounts, transportation cost, and total or life
cycle costs besides the actual contract price.
   (M)   Inter-local government agreements. In some cases, an inter-local
agreement might be considered advantageous over contracting out to private
companies.
(1985 Code, § 1-72) (Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-15-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-3, passed
8-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 6-23-2016)
§ 32.19 INVITATION FOR BIDS.
   An invitation for bids shall be issued and shall include a purchase
description, and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement.
(1985 Code, § 1-81)
§ 32.20 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given not less than
seven (7) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of bids.
   (B)   The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general
circulation a reasonable time prior to bids.
   (C)   The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general
circulation a reasonable time prior to bid opening.
(1985 Code, § 1-82)
§ 32.21 BID OPENING.
   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one (1) or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each
bid shall be made public.
(1985 Code, § 1-83)
§ 32.22 BID ACCEPTANCE.
   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or correction,
except as authorized in this subchapter. Bids shall be evaluated based on the
requirements set forth in the invitation for bids, which may include criteria
to determine acceptability such as inspection, testing, quality, workmanship,
delivery, and suitability for a particular purpose. Those criteria that will
affect the bid price are to be considered in evaluation for award shall be
objectively measured, such as discounts, transportation costs, and the total or
life cycle costs. The invitation for bids shall set forth the evaluation
criteria to be used. No criteria may be used in bid evaluation that are not set
forth in the invitation for bids.
(1985 Code, § 1-84)
§ 32.23 CORRECTION OR WITHDRAWAL OF BIDS.
   (A)   Corrections or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before award
may be permitted where appropriate.
   (B)   After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions shall
be permitted.
(1985 Code, § 1-85)
§ 32.24 GASOLINE PURCHASES.
   Town Council approved request of Police Chief to allow more than the
procurement procedures allow in regards to gasoline purchases, due to amounts
now needed and the additional high cost per gallon.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
§ 32.25 ADDITIONAL FUNDING.
   Town Council also amended the procedures to allow the Mayor or designated
person to sign off for additional funding in some situations. This is to allow
the Police Department to continue its normal functions without undue
difficulty.
(Ord. passed 5-15-2000)
DEBT COLLECTION
§ 32.40 RECOVERY OF COLLECTION COSTS.
   (A)   The town hereby imposes an administrative fee in the amount of $25 to
defray its internal costs of collection for any delinquent debts that are
sought to be collected pursuant to the provisions of the Setoff Debt Collection
Act, S.C. Code §§ 12-56-10 et seq. This fee is hereby declared to be a
collection cost that arises by operation of law, and shall be added to the
delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (B)   The town hereby declares that the administrative fee charged by the
Municipal Association of South Carolina is also a collection cost to the town,
which shall also be added to the delinquent debt and recovered from the debtor.
   (C)   This section shall be effective on the date of final reading, provided
however, that this section is declared to be consistent with prior law and
practice, and shall not be construed to mean that any fees previously charged
to debtors as costs of collection under the Act were not properly authorized or
properly charged to the debtor.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 10-26-2016)
APPENDIX: PROCUREMENT FLOW CHART
 
1                         2                            3
                          DEPT/AGENCY HEAD             MUNICIPAL CLERK
USER                      Request is made to           Request quotations
A need is recognized     Municipal Clerk. (If under  Checks budget
                          LPA- Purchase approved)      Recommends approval or
                                                       disapproval
4                         5                            6
MAYOR                     TOWN COUNCIL
Approves purchases $500   Approves purchases $501
or less                   and over                     VENDOR
Budgeted items $300 or   Budgeted items $301 and     Receives purchase order
less                      over                         Bills town for order
Non-budgeted items        Non-budgeted items
Initials invoices         Mayor or Council member
                          initials invoices
7                         8                            9
                          MUNICIPAL CLERK
USER                      Prepares check
Receives order            Sends to vendor              VENDOR
Inspects and accepts it  Records on accounting       Receives payment
if it meets approval      records                      Transaction is complete
                          Notation on invoices as
                          indicated
 
(1985 Code, § 1-72) (Am. Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-15-2014)
CHAPTER 33:
CIVIL DEFENSE DIVISION
Section
   
33.01   Establishment of Civil Defense Division
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Appointment of Director
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVIL DEFENSE SYSTEM.
   The Town Council of South Congaree, South Carolina hereby establishes the
Civil Defense Division as a branch of service to the citizens of South
Congaree. All rules and regulations pertaining to civil defense shall be
consistent with rules and recommendations of the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA).
(1985 Code, § 1-101)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   The Civil Defense Division shall be responsible for the development and
current updating of a preparedness survival plan for the Town of South
Congaree. All plans shall coordinate with the County Public Safety Department,
Emergency Preparedness Division for conformity with county and state plans.
(1985 Code, § 1-102)
§ 33.03 APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR.
   The Town Council by majority vote shall appoint a Director of Civil Defense
for a term of four (4) years, or until a successor is appointed, to serve as
the Division's Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 1-103)
CHAPTER 34:
ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   34.01   Nonpartisan election adopted
   34.02   Regular election date
   34.03   Public notice
   34.04   To be conducted pursuant to state law
   34.05   Method of determining election results
   34.06   Time of filing
   34.07   Filing fees
   34.08   Qualifying candidates
   34.09   Time of taking office
   34.10   Vote counting
Contesting Election Results
   34.25   If election is contested
   34.26   Procedures for contesting results of election
   34.27   Contesting election results; appeal from decision of Lexington
County Election Commission
Election Commission
   34.40   Municipal elections conducted by Lexington County Election
Commission
   34.41   Functions, powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 NONPARTISAN ELECTION ADOPTED.
   All regular and special elections for the offices of Mayor and Council for
the Town of South Congaree held after 12-13-1977, shall be nonpartisan
elections held pursuant to applicable state statutes. No political party
affiliation shall be placed on any ballot for any candidate.
(1985 Code, § 3-1) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.02 REGULAR ELECTION DATE.
   (A)   Regular nonpartisan elections pursuant to the plurality method
authorized in S.C. Code § 5-15-61 shall be held on the first Tuesday following
the first Monday in April in each even numbered year.
   (B)   In the event of a tie vote for any office, a runoff election shall be
held pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-125 two (2) weeks following the election in
which the tie vote occurred.
   (C)   Special elections to fill vacancies shall be held pursuant to S.C.
Code § 7-13-190.
(1985 Code, § 3-2) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.03 PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Public notice of all elections shall be given at least 60 days prior to the
elections.
(1985 Code, § 3-3) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.04 TO BE CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   Municipal primary, general and special elections shall be conducted mutatis
mutandis.
(1985 Code, § 3-6) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Elections, see S.C. Code § 5-15-10
§ 34.05 METHOD OF DETERMINING ELECTION RESULTS.
   Candidate nominations and election results shall be determined according to
the nonpartisan plurality method described in S.C. Code § 5-15-61.
(1985 Code, § 3-7) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.06 TIME OF FILING.
   Candidates must be a currently registered voter residing in the Town of
South Congaree at the time of filing. The filing fee must be received by the
Municipal Clerk not later than 60 days prior to the election in order to have
the candidate’s name placed on the election ballot.
(1985 Code, § 3-9) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Filing fee, see §
34.07
§ 34.07 FILING FEES.
 
Fee Office
$50 Mayor
$25 Council
 
(1985 Code, § 3-11) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.08 QUALIFYING CANDIDATES.
   Newly elected officers may not be qualified until at least 48 hours after
the closing of the polls.
(1985 Code, § 3-12) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.09 TIME OF TAKING OFFICE.
   Newly elected officers shall assume office at the next regularly scheduled
Council meeting following the date of the election.
(1985 Code, § 3-13) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.10 VOTE COUNTING.
   (A)   Immediately upon the closing of the polls at any municipal election,
the managers shall count publicly the votes cast and make a statement of the
whole number of votes cast in the election together with the number of votes
cast for each candidate for Mayor and Councilperson and transmit this
information to the Lexington County Election Commission.
   (B)   In partisan elections the person securing the highest number of votes
for Mayor shall be declared elected.
   (C)   (1)   The Councilperson shall be selected by the following method.
      (2)   When all Councilpersons are to be elected at large, the persons
receiving the highest number of votes in number equal to the number to be
chosen shall be declared elected.
(1985 Code, § 3-14) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CONTESTING ELECTION RESULTS
§ 34.25 IF ELECTION IS CONTESTED.
   If the results of the election are contested, the incumbent who fills the
contested office shall hold over until the contest is finally determined.
(1985 Code, § 3-15) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.26 PROCEDURES FOR CONTESTING RESULTS OF ELECTION.
   (A)   Within 48 hours after the closing of the polls, any candidate may
contest the result of the election as reported by the managers by filing a
written notice of the contest together with a concise statement of the grounds
therefor with the Lexington County Election Commission.
   (B)   Within 48 hours after the filing of the notice, the Lexington County
Election Commission shall, after due notice to the parties concerned, conduct a
hearing on the contest, decide the issues raised, file its report together with
all recorded testimony and exhibits with the Clerk of Court of the county in
which the municipality is situated, notify the parties concerned of the
decisions made, and when the decision invalidates the election, the Council
shall order a new election as to the parties concerned.
   (C)   Neither the Mayor nor any member of the Council shall be eligible to
pass on the issues arising in any contest in which he or she is a party.
(1985 Code, § 3-16) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.27 CONTESTING ELECTION RESULTS; APPEAL FROM DECISION OF MUNICIPAL ELECTION
COMMISSION.
   Within ten (10) days after notice of the decision of the Lexington County
Election Commission, any party aggrieved thereby may appeal from the decision
to the Court of Common Pleas. Notice of appeal shall be served on the opposing
parties or their attorneys and filed in the office of the Clerk of Court within
ten (10) days. The notice of appeal shall act as a stay of further proceedings
pending the appeal.
(1985 Code, § 3-17) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
ELECTION COMMISSION
§ 34.40 MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS CONDUCTED BY LEXINGTON COUNTY ELECTION COMMISSION.
   All municipal elections held under the provisions of this chapter shall be
conducted by the Lexington County Election Commission.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
§ 34.41 FUNCTIONS, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Lexington County Election Commission shall have the functions,
powers, and duties of Commissioners of Elections. It shall insure that proper
books of registration are provided for each ward, shall prepare and distribute
ballots and election materials, appoint managers of election for each polling
place and otherwise supervise and conduct all municipal, special and general
elections.
   (B)   The managers shall certify the results of the election to the
Commission within one (1) day after the election, and the Commission shall
declare the results not later than three (3) days following the election.
   (C)   Nominees by petition shall be certified to the Lexington County
Election Commission by the managers within the prescribed time, and when so
certified the Commission shall place the names of the nominees upon the ballots
for the general election.
(1985 Code, § 3-5) (Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2007)
CHAPTER 35:
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 36:
MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
Establishment, Function, Authority and Judicial Power of the Municipal Court
   
36.01   Powers, duties and jurisdiction
   
36.02   Appointment of Municipal Judge
   
36.03   Appointment of Acting Municipal Judge
   
36.04   Municipal Judge may suspend sentences
   
36.05   Clerk of Court
   
36.06   Books, records, mechanical reproduced recordings and pictures or
statements
   
36.07   Preliminary hearings
Procedure
   
36.20   Election of charge against accused
   
36.21   Power to compel attendance of witness
   
36.22   Testimony in writing
   
36.23   Proceedings in criminal case
   
36.24   Persons entitled to trial by jury
   
36.25   Amendment of information
Jury
   
36.40   Demand for jury trial; composition of jury
   
36.41   Jury Commissioners
   
36.42   Commissioners to prepare jury box
   
36.43   Composition of jury list
   
36.44   Drawing and composing juries
   
36.45   Disposition of names drawn
   
36.46   Failure of juror to appear
   
36.47   Jury fees
 
   
36.99   Penalty
ESTABLISHMENT, FUNCTION, AUTHORITY AND
JUDICIAL POWER OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 36.01 POWERS, DUTIES AND JURISDICTION.
   Each Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try all cases arising under
the ordinances of the municipality for which established. The Court shall also
have all powers, duties and jurisdiction in criminal cases made under state law
and conferred upon magistrates. The Court shall have the power to punish for
contempt of court by imposition of sentences up to the limits imposed on
municipal courts. The Court shall have no jurisdiction in civil matters.
(1985 Code, § 27-1)
§ 36.02 APPOINTMENT OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   The Municipal Court established by this chapter shall include one (1) or
more full-time or part-time municipal judges, who shall be appointed by a
majority vote of the Town Council. The term of his or her office shall be for
two (2) years. The salary of the Municipal Judge shall be fixed by the Town
Council. Before entering and upon the discharge of his or her duties, he or she
shall take and subscribe the oath of office.
(1985 Code, § 27-2)
§ 36.03 APPOINTMENT OF ACTING MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   The Mayor may in the absence, sickness, incapacity or disqualification
of the Municipal Judge, or for any reason, appoint a disinterested person to
serve temporarily until further verified by the Town Council.
   (B)   The appointee shall take the prescribed oath of office before entering
upon his or her duties.
(1985 Code, § 27-3)
§ 36.04 MUNICIPAL JUDGE MAY SUSPEND SENTENCES.
   Any municipal judge may suspend sentences imposed by him or her upon the
terms and conditions as he or she deems proper including without limitation,
restitution or public service employment.
(1985 Code, § 27-6)
§ 36.05 CLERK OF COURT.
   The Town Council shall appoint to the Municipal Court a person to serve as
Clerk of Court. Duties shall be to keep records and reports as determined by
the South Carolina court administration. All fines and penalties imposed and
collected by the Court shall be turned over to the Clerk of Court. The Clerk of
Court shall pay the Town Treasurer all monies received by the Clerk to be
receipted, verified in writing, and witnessed by both parties.
(1985 Code, § 27-7)
§ 36.06 BOOKS, RECORDS, MECHANICAL REPRODUCED RECORDINGS AND PICTURES OR
STATEMENTS.
   The Clerk of Court shall not in any case permit either the books, mechanical
reproduced recordings, pictures, statements or records to be removed from his
or her office for any reason, except under court order, subpoena, or that which
is public record under the Freedom of Information Act.
(1985 Code, § 27-8)
§ 36.07 PRELIMINARY HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   A notice must be given at each bond hearing to the defendant
both orally and in writing of his or her rights to a preliminary hearing. If
the offense is not bailable, the notice shall be given him or her no later than
would be required if the offense were bailable.
      (2)   The preliminary hearing will be held solely to determine whether
sufficient evidence exists to warrant the defendant's detention and trial.
(Circuit Court Rule No. 103 allows the defendant to inspect and copy certain
information held by the prosecution, and vice versa.)
   (B)   A preliminary hearing request in writing must be received by the Clerk
of Court of South Congaree within ten (10) days of the notice. An approved form
is provided by the Court to the defendant giving the opportunity to request a
preliminary hearing by filling out and signing the form, also returning it to
the office of the Clerk of Court before filing time.
   (C)   If probable cause be found by the Municipal Judge, the defendant shall
be bound over to the Court of General Sessions. If there lacks probable cause,
the defendant shall be discharged. After concluding the hearing, the Municipal
Judge shall transmit to Clerk of Court of Lexington County his or her findings
together with all papers in the hearing.
(1985 Code, § 27-9)
PROCEDURE
§ 36.20 ELECTION OF CHARGE AGAINST ACCUSED.
   Whenever a person be accused of committing an act which is susceptible of
being designated as several different offenses, the Municipal Judge of the town
upon the trial of the person shall be required to elect which charge to prefer
and a conviction or an acquittal upon the elected charge shall be a complete
bar to further prosecution for the alleged act.
(1985 Code, § 27-21)
§ 36.21 POWER TO COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF WITNESS.
   Any Municipal Judge, on the application of any party to a cause pending
before him or her, shall issue a summons citing any person whose testimony may
be required in the cause to appear before him or her at a certain time and
place, not more than 20 miles from the residence of the witness, to give
evidence. Summons to be served at least one (1) day before the attendance is
required.
(1985 Code, § 27-22)
§ 36.22 TESTIMONY IN WRITING.
   (A)   In the trial of any case before the Municipal Judge, the testimony of
all witnesses shall be taken down in writing and signed by the witness except
when the defendant shall waive the taking and signing of the testimony.
   (B)   When a stenographer shall take down the testimony or the Clerk of
Court reproduces mechanically the trial on recorder taping devices, it need not
be read over and signed by the witness.
(1985 Code, § 27-23)
§ 36.23 PROCEEDINGS IN CRIMINAL CASE.
   All proceedings before an official of the Municipal Court or Municipal Judge
shall be commenced on information under oath, plainly and substantially setting
forth the offenses charged, upon which and only which, warrant of arrest was
issued.
(1985 Code, § 27-24)
§ 36.24 PERSONS ENTITLED TO TRIAL BY JURY.
   (A)   Any person to be tried in a Municipal Court may, prior to trial,
demand a jury trial, and the jury when demanded, shall be composed of six (6)
persons drawn from the qualified electors of the municipality in the manner
prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The right to a jury trial shall be deemed to have been waived unless
demand is made prior to trial.
(1985 Code, § 27-25)
§ 36.25 AMENDMENT OF INFORMATION.
   The information may be amended at any time before trial.
(1985 Code, § 27-26)
JURY
§ 36.40 DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL; COMPOSITION OF JURY.
   Any person to be tried in a Municipal Court may, prior to trial, demand a
jury trial, and the jury when demanded, shall be composed of six (6) persons
drawn from the qualified electors of the municipality in the manner prescribed
in this subchapter. The right to a jury trial shall be deemed to have been
waived unless demand is made prior to trial.
(1985 Code, § 27-51)
§ 36.41 JURY COMMISSIONERS.
   The Town Council shall appoint not less than three (3) nor more than five
(5) persons to serve as Jury Commissioners for the Municipal Court; provided,
however, that the Council may act as Jury Commissioners in lieu of appointing
the Commissioners.
(1985 Code, § 27-52)
§ 36.42 COMMISSIONERS TO PREPARE JURY BOX.
   The Jury Commissioners shall, within the first 30 days of each year, prepare
a box to be known as the jury box. The box shall contain two (2) compartments,
designated as "A" and "B," respectively.
(1985 Code, § 27-53)
§ 36.43 COMPOSITION OF JURY LIST.
   The jury list of the municipality shall be composed of all names on the
official list of qualified electors of the municipality furnished to the
municipality by the State Election Commission each year, or copied from the
official voter registration list of the municipality. Compartment "A" of the
jury box shall contain a separate ballot or number for each name on the jury
list.
(1985 Code, § 27-54)
§ 36.44 DRAWING AND COMPOSING JURIES.
   (A)   A person appointed by the Municipal Judge who is not connected with
the trial of the case for either party shall draw out of Compartment "A" of the
jury box 30 names and the list of the names so drawn shall be delivered to each
party or to the attorney for each party.
   (B)   The names drawn shall be placed in a box or hat and individual names
randomly drawn out one (1) at a time until six (6) jurors and four (4)
alternates are selected. Each party shall have a maximum of six (6) peremptory
challenges as to primary jurors and four (4) peremptory challenges as to
alternate jurors and other challenges for cause as the Court may permit.
   (C)   If for any reason it is impossible to select sufficient jurors and
alternates from the names drawn, names shall be randomly drawn from Compartment
"A" until sufficient jurors and alternates are selected.
(1985 Code, § 27-55)
§ 36.45 DISPOSITION OF NAMES DRAWN.
   Upon the adjournment of the Court, the Clerk having the custody of the names
drawn shall take the names of the jurors who appeared and shall return these
ballots to Compartment "B" of the jury box, and the ballots corresponding to
the names of the jurors who were unable to appear or who were excused by the
Municipal Judge shall be returned to Compartment "A" of the jury box. When all
names in Compartment "A" have been exhausted, the names from Compartment "B"
shall be returned to Compartment "A" and thereafter juries shall continue to be
drawn therefrom in the manner provided herein.
(1985 Code, § 27-56)
§ 36.46 FAILURE OF JUROR TO APPEAR.
   Any juror who, being duly summoned, shall neglect or refuse to appear in
obedience to any summons issued by any Municipal Court, and shall not within 48
hours render to the Municipal Judge a sufficient reason for his or her
delinquency, may be punished for contempt.
(1985 Code, § 27-57) Penalty, see §
36.99
§ 36.47 JURY FEES.
   Jurors who appeared in cases brought before the Municipal Court of the Town
of South Congaree shall be entitled to receive a per diem of $5 dollars for
each day of attendance to be certified by the Clerk of Court.
(1985 Code, § 27-58)
§ 36.99 PENALTY.
   Whenever the municipal judge finds a party guilty of violating a municipal
ordinance or a state law within the jurisdiction of the Court, he or she shall
impose the maximum fine able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 or imprisonment
not to exceed 30 days or both.
(1985 Code, § 27-41)
CHAPTER 37: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
37.01   Organization
   
37.02   Powers, duties and functions
   
37.03   Special police
§ 37.01 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The established Police Department for the town is hereby codified. The
Police Department shall consist of a Police Chief and such other officers and
employees as may be hired by the Police Chief within the budget provided by the
Council.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall be appointed by the Town Council. The Police
Chief shall be the head of the department and shall have supervision over all
officers and employees of such department. The Police Chief will be responsible
for the hiring and termination of all officers and employees of such
department.
(Ord. passed 10-25-2007)
§ 37.02 POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   All sworn police officers of the town shall be invested with all the
powers and subject to all the duties conferred by law.
   (B)   In addition to any other duties and functions prescribed by the law of
this state or by ordinance, the Police Department’s duties shall include but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Provide protection for persons and property against unlawful acts;
      (2)   Provide police patrol services in all areas of the town;
      (3)   Investigate crimes;
      (4)   Apprehend, arrest and assist in the prosecution of perpetrators of
crimes; and
      (5)   Maintain an active crime prevention and control program.
(Ord. passed 10-25-2007)
§ 37.03 SPECIAL POLICE.
   The Mayor, upon any emergency or apprehension of riot or tumult or mob
violence or threatened violence, is hereby vested with the authority to appoint
as many special police officers as necessary. These special police officers
shall be paid such amounts as may be agreed upon at the time of appointment but
shall not be paid at a higher rate than that paid to regular police officers.
Special police officers shall obey all rules of the Police Department, and
shall be under the supervision of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 10-25-2007)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
               [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:
TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Parking Regulations
   
70.01   Parking regulations
   
70.02   Parking prohibitions
   
70.03   Limited or restricted parking
   
70.04   Parking near scene of fire
   
70.05   Single parking spaces
   
70.06   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle in roadway
   
70.07   Loading zones
   
70.08   Fire lanes
   
70.09   Special parking places
   
70.10   Motor vehicle
Operation of Vehicle
   
70.25   Careless operation of vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 70.01 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any
vehicle registered in the name of the person to be parked in any area other
than those specifically established for parking.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway or so near thereto as to
interfere with the unobstructed use of the driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection or at a school
crossing;
   (G)   Within 30 feet on the approach to any flashing beacon, stop signal or
traffic control device located on the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station, or within
75 feet on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct the normal flow of traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of the street;
   (L)   On any bridge or other elevated structure on a highway, or within any
tunnel;
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping or parking; or
   (N)   Stopping or standing to load or unload passengers on any street or
roadway where parking is provided outside the normal travel portion of the
roadway.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-82) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 LIMITED OR RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   In addition to the other provisions of this chapter relative to
parking, the Council may designate areas or spaces on streets where the parking
of vehicles is prohibited or limited to a specific time or otherwise
restricted.
   (B)   Whenever this designation is made, appropriate signs or markings shall
be erected clearly indicating the prohibition, limitation or restriction and it
shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in violation of these
signs or markings.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING NEAR SCENE OF FIRE.
   No person shall park any vehicle within any block where any fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm or emergency call.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 SINGLE PARKING SPACES.
   All vehicles parked in areas in which parking spaces have been marked off or
designated shall be parked entirely within a single space.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE IN ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle on any street for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Displaying for sale or advertising any other product; or
   (C)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-86) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 LOADING ZONES.
   Council may, from time to time, designate certain parking spaces as loading
zones and no vehicle shall be parked in this space except trucks and commercial
vehicles for the purpose of loading or unloading freight.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-87) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 FIRE LANES.
   Certain areas may be designated and marked as fire lanes. It shall be
unlawful for any vehicle to stop, stand, or park within any so designated area,
except for authorized emergency equipment.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-88) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 SPECIAL PARKING PLACES.
   Council may, at its discretion for sufficient cause shown, designate special
parking places for particular persons or groups of persons.(1985 Code, Ch. 27,
§ 26-89)
§ 70.10 MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to
stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key and effectively setting the brake thereon.
   (B)   It is also a violation to leave children within a vehicle while the
engine is running.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-90) Penalty, see §
70.99
OPERATION OF VEHICLE
§ 70.25 CARELESS OPERATION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle without
care and caution, and full regard for the safety of persons and property. Any
person failing to do so shall be guilty of careless driving or riding.
   (B)   The operation of a vehicle when the same or any of its appliances is
not in proper or safe condition shall be prima facie evidence of careless
driving or riding. Careless operation shall be unlawful and may be a lesser
included offense of reckless driving.
(1985 Code, Ch. 26, § 26-332) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Parking.
      (1)   Any violation of §§
70.01 et seq. shall be punishable with the maximum fine able to impose by S.C.
Code § 14-25-65 without indictment by grand jury or 30 days in jail.
      (2)   If violation is cited on parking ticket, punishment shall be
determined in an amount determined by Town Judge(s), if paid within seven (7)
days of violation. If not paid within the seven (7) day period, punishment will
be at the discretion of the court, up to the maximum limit as cited above.
(1985 Code, Ch. 27, § 26-91)
   (C)   Careless operation. Any person who is found in violation of §
70.25 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, Ch. 26, § 26-331)
CHAPTER 71:
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Truck traffic
SCHEDULE I: TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Definition.  TRUCK is defined as straight body, or combination of
semi-vehicle consisting of over six (6) wheels.
   (B)   Prohibited.
 
Truck Traffic Prohibited
Ramblin Road from SC 302 easterly to the South Congaree town limits
Pine Street adjacent to Congaree Grammar School
 
   (C)   Exceptions.
 
Exceptions
Truck traffic to or from mineral mines, mineral pits or mineral processing
facilities located within the corporate limits, or which maintain a corporate
presence within the Towns of Pine Ridge or South Congaree, shall not be
prohibited along Pine Ridge Drive or Fish Hatchery Road
 
   (D)   Signs. The Department of Transportation must erect appropriate signs
along Pine Ridge Drive (S-103) and along Fish Hatchery Road from Highway 321
until the intersection with Pine Ridge Drive in Lexington County that inform
motorists that through truck traffic is prohibited along this roadway.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
95.   PARADES
CHAPTER 90:
ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Commercial breeding kennels/catteries
   
90.03   Pet identification
   
90.04   Restraint and confinement
   
90.05   Abandonment and maltreatment
   
90.06   Impoundment
   
90.07   Dangerous dogs
   
90.08   Redemption
   
90.09   Adoption
   
90.10   Injured, diseased and dead animals
   
90.11   Pet regulations - commercial purposes
   
90.12   Enforcement
Rabies Control
   
90.25   Inoculation; certificate; tags
   
90.26   Notification required
   
90.27   Animal Control Officer to arrange for confinement
   
90.28   Required period of confinement
   
90.29   Notice to owner of animal, other than dog or cat
   
90.30   Confinement of animals bitten by rabid animals
   
90.31   Killing suspected rabid animals prohibited; exception
Exotic Animals
   
90.45   Definition
   
90.46   Prohibition
   
90.47   Provisions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. A situation in which the owner/caretaker of a pet does not
provide for humane disposal of the pet, or transfer ownership to a responsible
person or who does not provide or arrange for adequate food, water, shelter and
care. This definition does not include the responsible release of cats
participating in the Community Cat Program.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person employed by the county as the Enforcement
Officer of the provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises so designated by the County Council for the
purpose of impounding and caring for all pets found in violation of this
chapter or which the owner/custodian or citizen surrenders.
   AT LARGE. Any dog that is not under restraint. Any dog not so restrained
will be deemed unlawfully running at large.
   ATTACK DOG. A dog that has been trained to attack persons independently or
upon verbal command or hand signal.
   CATTERY. Any person engaging in the business of breeding, buying, selling or
boarding of cats.
   COMMERCIAL BOARDING KENNEL/ CATTERY. Any establishment for the commercial
boarding, grooming, sale or training of dogs/cats for which a fee is charged.
An animal hospital maintained by a licensed veterinarian as part of the
practice of veterinary medicine for the treatment of animals shall not be
considered a COMMERCIAL BOARDING KENNEL/CATTERY.
   COMMERCIAL BREEDING KENNEL/ CATTERY. Any person, partnership or corporation
or other legal entity that owns, keeps, harbors or is custodian of pets kept or
used for stud for which a fee is charged and/or for breeding purposes for which
a fee is charged for the offspring. COMMERCIAL BREEDING KENNEL/CATTERY shall
not include:
      (1)   Livestock and other farm animals used in customary and normal
agricultural husbandry practices; or
      (2)   A fancier’s kennel/cattery.
   COMMUNITY CAT. A cat that is domesticated which lives indoors and outdoors
(sometimes called free roaming) and/or a feral cat, which means a cat that is
unsocialized or unaccustomed to human interaction. Domesticated cats referred
to in this section may or may not be owned by a custodial party.
   COMMUNITY CAT PROGRAM. The terms of an agreement with a pet facility that
maintains measures to reduce the number of stray cats within the county by
trapping, neutering/spaying, ear tipping and returning the cat to the area in
which it was trapped.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person having custody or custodial power.
   DANGEROUS PET. Any pet evidencing characteristics usually associated with an
abnormal inclination to attack other pets or persons without provocation.
   EXPOSURE TO RABIES. Any person or pet that has been bitten by or exposed to
any pet known to have been infected with rabies. The County Health Department
or a licensed veterinarian shall make this determination.
   FANCIER. A person who owns or keeps three (3) or more dogs or cats for
noncommercial hunting or for breeding purposes in order to regularly
participate in tracking, exhibition in shows, or field or obedience or
performance trials at AKC (American Kennel Club), UKC (United Kennel Club) or
CFA (Cat Fancier Association) licensed shows.
   FANCIER’S KENNEL. A private kennel maintained by a fancier to keep or train
dogs or cats.
   GUARD DOG. Any dog that is reasonably expected to perform as a guardian of
its owner/custodian and/or the property upon and within which the dog is
located and is owned by a licensed security service or commercial
establishment.
   HYBRID. The offspring of wild animals crossbred with domesticated dogs and
cats.
   KENNEL. Any person engaging in the business of breeding, buying, selling or
the boarding of dogs.
   MALTREATMENT. The act of any person who deprives any pet of necessary
sustenance or shelter, or inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any pet,
or causes these things to be done.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a right of property in a pet;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors a pet or who has it in his or her care or acts as
its custodian; and/or
      (3)   Permits a pet to remain on or about any premises occupied by said
person for a period of five (5) or more days.
   PET. Dog or cat.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise or other legal
entity that buys or brokers any species of animal for resale as pets.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any dog found at large or making loud or objectionable
sounds.
   RESTRAINT. A situation in which a dog is:
      (1)   Controlled by a leash when outside the property limits of its
owner/custodian;
      (2)   Under the control and obedient to the owner/custodian’s commands
within the property limits of the owner/custodian; and/or
      (3)   Confined in a secure enclosure.
   SHELTER. A structure appropriately sized for the dog to stand or lie in a
normal manner. The structure most have a roof, three sides, appropriate sized
opening for ingress and egress and a dry floor so as to protect the dog from
the elements of weather.
   STERILIZED PET. Any pet that has had surgery to remove the reproductive
organs.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.02 COMMERCIAL BREEDING KENNELS/CATTERIES.
   No person shall own or operate a commercial breeding kennel/cattery within
the county without first obtaining a certificate of inspection from the Animal
Services Division, issued pursuant to this section for which a fee of $200
shall be paid for a two (2) year period. The fees shall be collected by Animal
Services and turned over to the County Treasurer. Such fees shall go toward the
cost of defraying the expense of operating the animal shelter.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.03 PET IDENTIFICATION.
   Every owner/custodian is required to see that an identification tag is
securely fastened to his or her dog’s collar or harness. The tag will clearly
indicate the name and phone number of the owner and must be worn by the dog at
all times, unless the dog, accompanied by the owner/custodian, is engaged in
hunting or other activity where a collar might endanger the dog’s safety.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.04 RESTRAINT AND CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   The owner/custodian shall keep his or her dog under restraint at all
times.
   (B)   Invisible fencing must be clearly marked and labeled (i.e. sign on
mailbox post, tree).
   (C)   No dog shall be permitted to be on school grounds or in a shopping
area or similar public place unless on a leash at all times.
   (D)   No person owning or harboring or having the care or the custody of a
dangerous animal may permit the animal to go unconfined on his or her premises.
A dangerous animal is unconfined if the animal is not confined securely indoors
or confined in a securely enclosed fence or securely enclosed and locked pen or
run area upon the person’s premises. The pen or run area must be clearly marked
as containing a dangerous animal and must be designed to prevent the entry of
the general public, including children, and to prevent the escape or release of
the animal. The animal must not be removed from such building or enclosure
unless the pet is securely muzzled and under restraint.
   (E)   Every female dog in heat shall be kept confined in a building or
secure enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel in such a
manner so as not to create a nuisance by attracting other pets.
   (F)   Any person reporting a violation of this section must identify himself
or herself to the Animal Control Officer and must sign a nuisance violation.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep upon his or her premises
any dog that is deemed a public nuisance.
   (H)   If an Animal Control Officer observes a dog at large, they may pursue
the animal onto private property.
   (I)   The owner of every dog shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by the dog on public walks and ways, recreation areas, or
private property.
   (J)   No dog shall be kept on a property that the owner/custodian does not
occupy on a permanent basis.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.05 ABANDONMENT AND MALTREATMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner/custodian of any pet in the county
to abandon it. This section does not prohibit the responsible release of cats
participating in the Community Cat Program.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone in the county to treat any pet in a
cruel and/or inhumane manner.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.06 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Immediately after impounding any pet, the Animal Control Officer shall
make a reasonable effort to notify the owner/custodian of its impoundment and
to inform the owner/custodian of the conditions whereby he or she can regain
custody of the pet.
   (B)   Any pet impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not claimed
by its owner within five (5) business days becomes the property of Lexington
County Animal Services and may be humanely destroyed by Animal Services.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.07 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   The Animal Services Director shall have the authority to determine if
a dog is a dangerous dog. Animal Services must notify the owner/custodian of
the dog in writing that the animal must be registered with Animal Services as
dangerous.
   (B)   The owner shall notify Animal Services if any changes occur with the
following:
      (1)   Ownership of the dog;
      (2)   Name, address and telephone number of a new owner/custodian;
      (3)   Address change of the owner/custodian or any change in the location
in which the dog is housed;
      (4)   Any change in the health status of the dog; and
      (5)   Death of the animal.
   (C)   If the dog is outdoors and attended, the dog shall be muzzled, on a
leash and under the control of the owner/custodian.
   (D)   If the dog is outdoors and unattended, the dog must be locked in an
escape-proof kennel. Minimum standards shall include the following:
      (1)   Fencing materials shall not have openings with a diameter of more
than two (2) inches; in the case of a wooden fence, the gaps shall not be more
than two (2) inches.
      (2)   Any gates within such pen or structure shall be padlocked and of
such design to prevent the entry of children or the escape of the dog.
      (3)   The required pen or structure shall have secure sides and a secure
top. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides
shall be imbedded into the ground or concrete.
      (4)   The pen or structure shall protect the animal from the elements.
      (5)   A universal sign denoting a dangerous animal shall be displayed on
all four sides of the pen or structure.
   (E)   It shall be illegal for anyone to own or be the custodian of a hybrid.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.08 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of an impounded dog,
except as provided in this section in the cases of certain dogs, upon providing
proof of a valid rabies inoculation for the year in which the dog is being held
and proper identification requirements and the payment of redemption fees set
forth in this section.
   (B)   In the case of a dangerous dog that the owner has failed to control
properly and which has been impounded, redemption may be made only with the
consent of the Animal Services Director.
   (C)   The owner of an impounded dog must apply for the redemption of his or
her dog. The dog may not be released unless authorized by the Animal Control
Officer with assurance from the owner that proper care and custody will be
maintained.
   (D)   The fees in this subsection shall be collected from the owner by
Animal Services and turned over to the County Treasurer, who shall make a
monthly accounting of such funds. Such fees, when collected, shall go toward
defraying the expense of operating the animal shelter. An initial fee of $15
will be charged for impoundment for a period of one (1) to five (5) days. The
additional sum of $5 will be charged for each day the animal is kept beyond
five (5) days. Upon a second offense, a fee of $30 will be charged. Upon a
third offense, if the Animal Services Director allows the dog to be reclaimed,
a fee of $50 will be charged.
   (E)   If an owner redeeming a dog cannot show proof of inoculation against
rabies for the year in which the dog is being held, the owner shall be required
to pay $10 for the rabies inoculation.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.09 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Any pet impounded under the provisions of this article may, at the end
of the legal detention period, be adopted by a person deemed to be a
responsible and suitable owner, who will agree to
comply with the provisions of this chapter. All required fees must be paid at
the time of adoption in addition to an adoption fee. Those individuals adopting
puppies or kittens too young to receive rabies inoculation will pay the cost
for this procedure at the time of adoption and be given an appointment for a
later time to have this procedure accomplished.
   (B)   No unsterilized pet which has been impounded by Animal Services shall
be allowed to be adopted unless it has been sterilized.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.10 INJURED, DISEASED AND DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Anyone who strikes a pet with a motor vehicle or bicycle and injures
or kills the pet must notify Animal Services or the Sheriff’s Department
immediately. The Animal Control Officer or the Sheriff’s Department will then
take the necessary steps to provide for the proper treatment or disposal of the
pet.
   (B)   Any pet received by Animal Services in critical condition from wounds,
injuries or disease may be destroyed at the discretion of the Animal Services
Director and/or the Animal Services veterinarian if the owner/custodian cannot
be contacted. If the pet is suffering great pain, it may be destroyed
immediately.
   (C)   The owner/custodian of any pet which dies shall immediately provide
for its burial or cremation if he or she knows of its death and the location of
its remains. If he or she fails to do so within three (3) hours, the Animal
Control Officer shall arrange for the disposal and the owner/custodian shall be
required to pay the cost thereof, not to exceed $50.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer shall cause to be collected all dead
domestic animals found on public grounds or roadways of the county. If the
animal is identifiable, the Animal Control Officer will notify the owner/
custodian of the animal as soon as practical. Citizens may call 785-8364 if the
animal is on a county road or 359-4103 if the animal is on a state road.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.11 PET REGULATIONS - COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall sell, trade, barter, auction, lease, rent, give away,
or display for commercial purpose any pet on a roadside, public right-of-
way,public property, commercial parking lot or sidewalk, fair or carnival.
   (B)   No person shall offer a pet as an inducement to purchase a product,
commodity or service.
   (C)   A flea market pet sale vendor must:
      (1)   Possess a valid registration with Lexington County Animal Services;
      (2)   Display, at all times, the Lexington County Animal Services’
registration certificate at the booth; and
      (3)   Permit kennel and booth inspections by Lexington County Animal
Services upon request.
   (D)   Licensed pet shops, commercial kennels, county animal shelters, and
licensed pet rescue organizations may be exempt from the requirements of this
section with prior written approval from the Animal Services Director or
designee. The written approval document must be kept on site and produced upon
request to law enforcement and code enforcement personnel.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by Animal Services
under the supervision of the Director in all unincorporated areas of the county
except wherein the governing body of any municipality, by resolution filed with
the clerk, so indicates that it desires the provisions of this chapter be
enforced within the jurisdictional limits of the respective municipality.
   (B)   The Animal Services’ staff shall be appointed as County Code
Enforcement Officers.
   (C)   If the Animal Control Officers are unable to respond to complaints due
to other commitments, the County Sheriff’s Department or other authorized law
enforcement agency may respond to complaints.
   (D)   Persons empowered to enforce this chapter shall have the authority to
destroy any pet which appears to be dangerous and may endanger their safety or
the safety of other persons or animals. Further, after reasonable attempts to
capture and/or restrain unsuccessfully a dog in violation of §
90.04, Restraint and Confinement (by physical means and/or trapping), as a last
resort, he or she may petition the magistrate to have the dog destroyed.
   (E)   The Animal Control Officers will, if necessary, obtain a search
warrant to enter any premises upon which it is suspected a violation of this
chapter exists. The officer may demand to examine such pet and take possession
of the pet when, in his or her opinion, it requires removal from the premises.
   (F)   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest the Animal Services’
staff in the execution of their duties, or seek to release any pet in the
custody of Animal Services.
   (G)   When a pet is found in violation of any provision of this chapter,
Animal Control Officers, at their discretion, may:
      (1)   Impound the pet;
      (2)   Issue notice of violation; and/or
      (3)   Issue court summons.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.25 INOCULATION; CERTIFICATE; TAGS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or harbor any pet within the county for
longer than 60 days unless such pet has been inoculated against rabies as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Every owner/custodian of a pet will have his or her pet inoculated
against rabies in such a manner as to provide continual protection.
   (C)   A state board of health certificate of pet rabies vaccination will be
issued by a licensed graduate veterinarian for each pet stating the name and
address of the owner, the name, breed, color and markings, age, sex of the
animal and the veterinary or pharmaceutical control number of the vaccination.
   (D)   Coincident with the issuance of the certificate, the licensed graduate
veterinarian shall also furnish a serially numbered metal license tag bearing
the same number and year as the certificate. The metal license tag shall bear
the name of the veterinarian who administered the vaccination and shall at all
times be attached to a collar or harness worn by the pet for which the
certificate and tag has been issued.
   (E)   The owner/custodian shall have a valid certificate of rabies
immunization readily available for inspection by competent authority at all
times.
   (F)   If a rabies tag is lost, the owner will obtain a duplicate tag without
delay.
   (G)   If there is a change in ownership of a pet during the valid period of
immunization, the new owner may have the current certificate of immunization
transferred to his or her name.
   (H)   A certificate of rabies immunization issued by a licensed veterinarian
from another state will be accepted as valid evidence.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any owner/custodian of any pet which has not
been inoculated as required by this subchapter to allow it to run at large.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.26 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   Whenever a pet or other animal is affected by rabies or suspected of being
affected by rabies or has been bitten by an animal known or suspected to be
affected by rabies, the owner of the animal or any person having knowledge
thereof shall forthwith notify the Animal Control Officer and the County Health
Department stating precisely where the animal may be found.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.27 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER TO ARRANGE FOR CONFINEMENT.
   The Animal Control Officer, in conjunction with the County Health
Department, shall arrange for the supervised confinement of any pet or other
animal which has bitten a person. Such confinement may be on the premises of
the owner/custodian if the owner/custodian will sign an agreement assuming
total responsibility for the safe confinement of the pet or other animal.
Confinement shall be at the County Animal Shelter, a private animal shelter,
veterinary hospital or humane society shelter at the owner’s expense.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.28 REQUIRED PERIOD OF CONFINEMENT.
   Any pet or other animal which has bitten a person must be confined for a
period of at least ten (10) days. The County Health Department or the Animal
Control Officer will be permitted by the owner/custodian of such pet or animal
to examine the animal at any time, and daily if desired, within the ten (10)
day period of confinement to determine whether such animal shows symptoms of
rabies. No person shall obstruct or interfere with the Animal Control Officer
or the County Health Department in making such examination.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.29 NOTICE TO OWNER OF ANIMAL, OTHER THAN DOG OR CAT.
   In the case of a pet other than a dog or cat which has attacked or bitten a
person, the County Health Department shall serve notice upon the owner/
custodian of such pet that the owner/custodian shall have the animal euthanized
immediately and have the brain submitted for rabies examination.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.30 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS BITTEN BY RABID ANIMALS.
   The County Health Department shall serve notice in writing upon the owner/
custodian of a pet or other animal known to have been bitten by an animal known
or suspected of being affected by rabies requiring the owner/custodian to
confine such animal for a period of not less than six (6) months; except that,
animals properly treated with antirabic vaccine shall be confined for a period
of not less than three (3) months.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.31 KILLING SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid pet or other animal,
or one suspected of having been exposed to rabies or which has bitten a person,
nor remove such pet or animal from the jurisdiction of the county without
written permission of the County Health Department. An exception to the
preceding requirement is in the event of the possibility of the animal’s escape
or additional biting in which case the animal is to be killed and the County
Health Department notified immediately.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.45 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL means those species of animals that are exotic to humans.
Exotic animals include:
      (1)   Class Mammalia.
         (a)   Order Artiodactyla (only hippopotamuses and giraffes).
         (b)   Order Carnivora (only those specified below).
            1.   Family Felidae [(all species except domestic cats) this
includes lions, tigers, cougars, leopards, ocelots, servals].
            2.   Family Canidae (only wolves, coyotes and jackals).
            3.   Family Ursidae (all bears).
            4.   Family Hyaenidae (hyenas).
         (c)   Order Perissodactyla (only rhinoceroses).
         (d)   Order Primates (only gorillas).
         (e)   Order Proboscidae (elephants).
      (2)   Class Reptilia.
         (a)   Order Squamata (only varanidae family animals specified below).
         (b)   Family Varanidae (only water monitors and crocodile monitors).
         (c)   Order Crocodilia (such as crocodiles, alligators, caimans,
gavials, etc.) - all species.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.46 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain, or have in his or her possession or
control within the unincorporated portion of Lexington County any exotic animal
as defined herein.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.47 PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of §
90.46 shall not apply to Riverbanks Zoo and Lexington County approved circuses
that are within the unincorporated area of the county.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of §§
90.01 through
90.12 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable under magistrate’s
court jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
90.46 shall be subject to the maximum penalty as authorized by the magistrate’s
court and as further set forth in the General Penalty, Section 1-8 of the
Lexington County Code of Ordinances. Lexington County Animal Services may take
immediate possession of an exotic animal and transfer the exotic animal to a
rescue group outside of Lexington County.
(County Ord. 17-01, passed 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER 91:
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Deeded roads
   
91.02   Naming of streets
   
91.03   Driveways
   
91.04   Street numbers
   
91.05   Damaging, theft of road signs
   
91.06   Obstructions
Uniform Numbering System
   
91.20   Uniform numbering system
   
91.21   Assignment of numbers
   
91.22   Placement of numbers
   
91.23   Adopting an amendment
   
91.24   Effective date
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEEDED ROADS.
   Roads deeded to the town must meet Lexington County specifications. The Town
of South Congaree will not be responsible for the cost incurred in cutting new
roads. Roads being cut by a private citizen (not a real estate developer and
the like) for personal access may be exempt from paving the deeded road.
(1985 Code, § 7-1) Penalty, §
91.99
§ 91.02 NAMING OF STREETS.
   In naming of the streets, the name must be submitted in writing to the Town
Clerk with all names and signatures of all individual property owners on the
street. The name will be permanently spelled and referred to as it is submitted
with a history of how the name was picked. No streets are to be named after a
person unless exemption is given by Council. Council will vote on the submitted
name for approval. The cost of the first sign is to be incurred by property
owners, paid in advance.
(1985 Code, § 7-2) Penalty, §
91.99
§ 91.03 DRIVEWAYS.
   Maximum width of a driveway put in by the town is to be 12 feet on one (1)
entrance/exit. Any additional cost of pipe and construction needed is to be
insured by the property owner. The property owner may hire or contract the town
to do the additional work.
(1985 Code, § 7-3) Penalty, §
91.99
§ 91.04 STREET NUMBERS.
   Street numbers are assigned by the Town Clerk in numerical order. A minimum
of three (3) days are required to research the numbers thoroughly.
(1985 Code, § 7-4)
§ 91.05 DAMAGING, THEFT OF ROAD SIGNS.
   The town shall pay a reward of $200 to anyone who reports any information to
the Chief of Police which leads to the arrest and conviction of a person
maliciously damaging, vandalizing or stealing a public sign.
(1985 Code, § 7-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street, alley, park,
square, public right-of-way or sidewalk, so as to hinder or prevent full, free
and uninterrupted passage thereon, except by special permit (parades, street
dances and the like).
(1985 Code, § 7-7) Penalty, §
91.99
UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 91.20 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal structures as shown
on a map identified by the title street numbering plan of the Town of South
Congaree, South Carolina, which is filed in the office of the Town Clerk, is
hereby adopted for use in the Town of South Congaree, South Carolina. The map
and all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted and made a part of this
subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 11-12)
§ 91.21 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of South
Congaree, South Carolina shall hereafter be identified by reference to the
uniform numbering system adopted herein.
   (B)   All existing numbers of properties and buildings not now in conformity
with provisions of this subchapter shall not remain in conflict for more than
30 days from the date of passage of this subchapter. That is, numbers on
buildings must be changed to new numbers assigned by this subchapter or old
structure numbers shall be removed within 30 days after the date of passage of
this subchapter.
   (C)   Where any building has more than one (1) entrance serving separate
occupants, a separate number shall be assigned to each entrance serving an
occupant.
   (D)   The building shall be assigned the number of the 33-foot interval in
which the main entrance of the building falls. In measuring the 33-foot
intervals of street frontage, if the main entrance of the building falls
exactly upon the line which divides a 33-foot interval from the next higher
interval, either the number of the lower interval or the number of the next
higher interval will be assigned to that entrance.
   (E)   A multiple family dwelling having only one (1) main entrance shall be
assigned only one (1) number, and separate apartments in the building will
carry a letter designation such as A, B, C in addition to the number assigned
to the main entrance of the building.
   (F)   The duplex houses having two (2) front entrances shall have a separate
number for each entrance. In the event that both entrances fall within the same
increment, either the preceding number or next highest number shall be used for
one (1) entrance number, and the interval number in which the entrances fall
shall be used for the other entrance.
   (G)   The Town of South Congaree shall renumber structures and the mail
boxes or mail depositories therewith associated over a period of three (3)
years from the date of the adoption of this subchapter assigning new numbers to
structures and mail boxes along Main Street and along the renamed McNeil Street
(see accompanying map). Mail boxes of structures for McNeil Street residences
shall be placed along Main Street in a manner designated by the West Columbia
postmaster to facilitate ease of postal delivery.
(1985 Code, § 11-13)
§ 91.22 PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Within 30 calendar days of the adoption of this subchapter by the
South Congaree Town Council, the owner, occupant or agent shall place or cause
to be placed upon each mail box or mail depository controlled by the person the
number or numbers assigned under the uniform system as provided by the
subchapter.
   (B)   The numbers shall be placed on mail boxes or mail depositories within
30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, and within 20 days after
the assigning of the proper number in the case of numbers assigned after the
effective date of this subchapter. The numbers used shall be a minimum of two
(2) inches in height and shall be made of a durable, reflecting material.
   (C)   (1)   Where property owners desire to place numbers on structures in
addition to the required numbers on mail boxes, the numbering shall be done as
follows.
      (2)   The numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on or
at the side of the principal door of each building so that the number can be
seen plainly from the street line.
   (D)   Whenever any house, building, or structure shall be erected or located
in the Town of South Congaree after the establishment of the uniform system of
house and building numbering, in order to preserve the continuity and
uniformity of numbers of the houses, buildings, and structures, it shall be the
duty of the owner to procure the correct number or numbers as designated from
the Town Clerk for the property and to immediately fasten the number or numbers
so assigned upon the mail box as provided by this subchapter. No building
permit shall be issued for any house, building, or structure until the owner
has procured from the Clerk the official number of the premises. Final approval
of any structure erected, repaired, altered, or modified after the effective
date of this subchapter shall be withheld by the Building Inspector until
permanent and proper numbers have been affixed to the mail box.
   (E)   Street numbers are assigned to buildings but are only required by this
subchapter to be placed on mail boxes or mail depositories in front of each
structure.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to inform any party applying
therefor of the number or numbers belonging to or embraced within the limits of
any lot or property as provided in this subchapter. In case of conflict as to
the proper number to be assigned to any building, the Clerk shall determine the
number of the building.
(1985 Code, § 11-14) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 ADOPTING AN AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Prior to the adopting or amending of this subchapter, the South
Congaree Council shall hold a public hearing thereon. At least 15 days notice
of the time and place of a public hearing shall be given in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Town of South Congaree.
   (B)   The public hearing shall be held as this subchapter is amended to
extend the renumbering system to the following street in South Congaree (Lines
left blank so they can be filled in over the next three (3) years by
amendment.)
   (C)   Streets renumbered under the terms of this subchapter.
      (1)   Main Street.
      (2)   McNeil Street.
      (3)   McDonald Avenue.
      (4)   ________________
      (5)   ________________
      (6)   ________________
      (7)   ________________
      (8)   ________________
      (9)   ________________
      (10)   ________________
(1985 Code, § 11-16)
§ 91.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in force from and after 6-2-1982.
(1985 Code, § 11-17)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Streets. Anyone who maliciously damages, vandalizes or steals a
traffic control sign or street sign or any property belonging to the town or
violates any other section of §§
91.01 et seq. shall be penalized by a maximum fine of $500 plus assessments and
surcharges or 30 days in jail.
(1985 Code, § 7-6)
   (C)   Uniform numbering system. Any person violating the terms of §§
91.20 et seq., shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable
according to the laws governing these offenses in the State of South Carolina.
(1985 Code, § 11-15)
CHAPTER 92:
FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Standard Fire Prevention Code
   
92.01   Adoption of Standard Fire Prevention Code
Outdoor Burn Ordinance
   
92.15   Location of residential yard debris burning
   
92.16   Attendant and fire extinguishing equipment required; notice to State
Forester; adherence to state law
   
92.17   Open burn prohibitions
   
92.18   Criteria for determining hazards
   
92.19   Prohibited on county roads, drainage rights-of-way and adjacent areas
   
92.20   Exemptions
   
92.21   Restrictions; exceptions
   
92.22   Hazardous or toxic materials
   
92.23   Civil and criminal liability
   
92.24   Conflicts with state law
   
92.25   Violations
   
92.26   Compliance required
Discharging Fireworks
   
92.30   Discharging of fireworks
   
92.31   Public display of subchapter
 
   
92.99   Penalty
STANDARD FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF STANDARD FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   The Standard Fire Prevention Code is hereby adopted with the 1980 Revision
of Amendments thereto, which code is published in book form and which is
referred to, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof for all purposes, copy
of which code is on file in the office of the Town Clerk and the office of the
Building Official. Violation of this chapter shall be punishable with the
maximum fine amount able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 without indictment
by grand jury or 30 days in jail.
(1985 Code, Ch. 11, Art. II)
OUTDOOR BURN ORDINANCE
§ 92.15 LOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL YARD DEBRIS BURNING.
   Open burning of leaves, tree branches or yard trimmings on the premises of
private residences and burned on those premises, must be located not less than
75 feet from any structure and not less than 75 feet from the property line and
adequate provision is made to prevent the fire from spreading within 75 feet of
any structure. Open burning for the purpose of land clearing or right-of-way
maintenance must be conducted in accordance with the SC Department of Health
and Environmental Control (DHEC) Air Quality Regulations 61-62.2 and 61-62.4
and S.C. Code §§ 48-35-10 et seq. (1976).
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 ATTENDANT AND FIRE EXTINGUISHING EQUIPMENT REQUIRED; NOTICE TO STATE
FORESTER; ADHERENCE TO STATE LAW.
   The burning must be constantly attended by a competent person until such
fire is extinguished. Such person shall have a garden hose connected to a water
supply, or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for use. Proper
notification shall be given to the State Forester or his or her duly authorized
representative or other persons designated by the State Forester. The notice
shall contain all information required by the State Forester or his or her
representative. The burning must be conducted in accordance with related state
laws and regulations including, but not limited to, DHEC Air Quality
Regulations 61-62.2 and 61-62.4 and S.C. Code §§ 48-35-10 et seq. (1976).
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 OPEN BURN PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The county fire service coordinator may prohibit open burning when
atmospheric conditions, local circumstances or other conditions exist that
would make such fires hazardous.
   (B)   The following materials shall not be burned in an open fire: asphalt
and asphaltic materials, paint, plastics, metals, treated wood, paper,
petroleum products, demolition debris, dead animals, construction debris,
household chemicals, household garbage, tires, trade waste and cardboard.
   (C)   Open burning for the purpose of land clearing and right-of-way
maintenance. Except as specified by DHEC Air Quality Regulations 61-62.2 and
61-62.4.
   (D)   Open burning for the purpose of land clearing and right-of-way
maintenance shall be prohibited during the ozone season (April 1 through
October 30).
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING HAZARDS.
   Reasonable criteria shall be established by the county to assist in
determining when outdoor fires may be hazardous. These criteria may include air
quality standards as well as various fire danger indexes.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 92.19 PROHIBITED ON COUNTY ROADS, DRAINAGE RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ADJACENT AREAS.
   Open burning shall be prohibited on all county roads and drainage rights-of-
way, or within an area that may cause damage to such areas.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to vegetative debris burning related to
forestry, wildlife and agricultural burns, as authorized by the State Forestry
Commission.
   (B)   This subchapter is not meant to restrict open burning in the
connection with the preparation of food for immediate consumption, or campfires
and fires used solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial occasions or human
warmth that are done in a safe manner.
   (C)   Fires set for the purpose of training public fire-fighting personnel
when authorized by the appropriate governmental entity, and fires set by a
private industry as a part of an organized program of drills for the training
of fire-fighting training and the duration of the burning is held to the
minimum required for such purposes. Prior approval by DHEC is required only for
sites which are not established training sites.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 92.21 RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   Smoke production must be ended and no combustible material may be added to
the fire between official sunset of one day and official sunrise of the
following day with the exception of fires in the connection with the
preparation of food for immediate consumption, or campfires and fires used
solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial occasions, or human warmth and
fires where time parameters are already regulated by the Department of
Environmental Control Regulation 61-62.2.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS.
   Hazardous or toxic materials shall not be burned.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   The authorization to conduct an open burn does not relieve the individual
responsible from civil or criminal liabilities resulting from the burning.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010)
§ 92.24 CONFLICTS WITH STATE LAW.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall prevail and be controlling over
provisions of state law. Otherwise, if any conflict arises between the
provisions of this subchapter and any state law, the provisions of state law
shall prevail and be controlling.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment in
accordance with §
92.99.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any open burning or authorize any such
fire to be kindled or maintained within the incorporated areas of the town,
except as stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 5-18-2010) Penalty, see §
92.99
DISCHARGING FIREWORKS
§ 92.30 DISCHARGING OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot, or discharge any
fireworks of any description between the hours of 11:00 p.m, and 9:00 a.m.,
with the exception of New Year's Eve, when the shooting or discharging of any
fireworks is prohibited after 1:00 a.m. New Year's Day, or when otherwise
excepted by Council. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
possession and use of fireworks for public displays.
(1985 Code, § 26-187) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 PUBLIC DISPLAY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   A copy of this subchapter must be placed in public view at all businesses
selling fireworks inside the town limits.
(1985 Code, § 26-189)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Fireworks. Violation of §§
92.30 et seq. shall be punishable with the maximum fine amount able to impose
by S.C. Code §§ 14-25-65 or 30 days in jail.
(1985 Code, § 11-1)
CHAPTER 93:
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Litter
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Reserved
   
93.03   Unlawful to litter on public or private property
   
93.04   Responsibility for removal
   
93.05   Unsightly accumulation prohibited
   
93.06   Notice to remove
   
93.07   Abatement
   
93.08   Duty of owner or occupant
Unsafe Buildings
   
93.20   Purpose
   
93.21   Declaration
   
93.22   Records and reports
   
93.23   Records
   
93.24   Cooperation of other officials
   
93.25   Right of entry
Noise
   
93.35   Generally
   
93.36   Operation of vehicles generally
   
93.37   Sounding horns or signaling devices on vehicles
   
93.38   Blowing steam whistles, electric horns or similar devices
   
93.39   Racing engines of vehicles
   
93.40   Noises in connection with loading or unloading vehicles
   
93.41   Radios, phonographs, musical instruments and other sound-amplifying
devices
   
93.42   Crying out or playing bells, drums or other instruments to attract
attention
   
93.43   Building operations
   
93.44   Audible signal alarm devices
   
93.45   Additional provisions
   
93.46   Violations
Abandoned or Junk Vehicles
   
93.50   Definitions
   
93.51   Abandonment prohibited
   
93.52   Parking and storage of certain vehicles
   
93.53   Exception
   
93.54   Impounding
Smoking in Public Places of Employment
   
93.60   Smoking of tobacco products
“Bath Salts” and/or Synthetic Marijuana
   
93.70   Definitions
   
93.71   Possession, distribution or consumption of methylone, mephedrone,
methlymethcathinone, fluoromethcathinone or methylenedioxypyrovaleron (MDPV),
collectively “bath salts” and/or synthetic marijuana
   
93.72   Advertisement, sale, and use prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Refuse collection practice
LITTER
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to regulate the
disposal of litter or other solid waste in order to protect the public safety,
health, and welfare, and to enhance the environment and the quality of life of
the people of South Congaree
(1985 Code, Art. I, Div. 1) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.02 [RESERVED.]
§ 93.03 UNLAWFUL TO LITTER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle, other than a commercial carrier, shall be
held liable if it cannot be determined which vehicle occupant committed any
acts in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, throw, drop, discard,
deposit or otherwise dispose of any litter, garbage or other solid waste upon
any public or private property in this town or in the waters of this town
whether from a vehicle or otherwise, including but not limited to public
highways, public parks, beaches, campgrounds, forestland, recreational areas,
mobile home parks, roads, streets or alleys.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to dump, throw, drop,
discard, deposit or otherwise dispose of any litter, garbage or other solid
waste into any dumpster or receptacle owned, operated or leased by a private
individual or business unless specifically authorized to do so by the
individual or business that owns, operates or leases the dumpster or
receptacle.
   (D)   Litter, garbage or other solid waste may be disposed of:
      (1)   Upon or into the property or receptacle that is properly designated
by the state, county or town for disposal of litter, garbage and other solid
waste and the person is authorized to use the property or receptacle for that
purpose; or
      (2)   Into a litter receptacle in the manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements upon any part of
private or public property.
(1985 Code, § 14-1) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL.
   Responsibility for removal of litter from property or receptacles shall be
upon the person in charge of any real property within the city, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or where the receptacle or waste is located.
(1985 Code, § 14-2) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 UNSIGHTLY ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or tenant of any real property to permit
or cause the accumulation or presence of any rubbish, trash, refuse, litter,
unsightly materials on the aforesaid premises; any accumulation or presence of
aforesaid material are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1985 Code, § 14-10) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to serve or cause to be served a
notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which there is an
accumulation or presence of trash, refuse, litter, unsightly waste material in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter to demand the abatement of the
nuisance within 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 14-11) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 ABATEMENT.
   If any person served pursuant to this subchapter that does not abate the
nuisance within 30 days, the appropriate department of the town may proceed to
abate the nuisance keeping an account of the expenses of the abatement and the
expenses shall be charged and paid by the owner or occupant of the property.
(1985 Code, § 14-12) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, occupant or lessee to keep
exterior private and public property free of litter and unsightly growth. This
requirement applies not only to removal of loose litter, but also to materials
that already are, or become, trapped at such locations as fences and wall
bases, grassy and planted areas, borders, embankments and other lodging points.
   (B)   Owners, agents, occupants or lessees whose properties abut a city
right-of-way shall be responsible for keeping the area up to and including the
curb gutter or street line free of litter and unsightly growth.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to sweep or push litter from buildings, property,
sidewalks and strips into streets, sidewalks and the storm drainage system.
Sidewalk and strip sweepings must be picked up and put into roll carts, litter
containers or commercial bulk containers.
   (D)   Any duly authorized town official shall provide written notice to the
owner, agent, occupant or lessee identifying any deficiencies or violation
requiring correction five (5) days prior to any other enforcement action taken
in regard to the provisions of this section.
(1985 Code, § 14-12) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 93.20 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this subchapter to regulate the
existence of unsafe buildings in order to protect the public safety, health,
and welfare, and to enhance the environment and the quality of life of the
people of South Congaree.
(1985 Code, § 14-50) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.21 DECLARATION.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are unsafe, unsanitary, are not
provided with adequate egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are
otherwise dangerous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are severally in contemplation of
this subchapter unsafe buildings.
   (B)   All unsafe buildings are hereby declared illegal and shall be abated
by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the following
procedure.
      (1)   Whenever the Building or Fire Official shall find any building or
structure or portion thereof to be unsafe, as defined in this subchapter, he or
she shall give the owner, agent or person in control of the building or
structure written notice stating the defects thereof. This notice shall require
the owner within a stated time either to complete specified repairs or
improvements, or to demolish and remove the building or structure or portion
thereof.
      (2)   (a)   If necessary, the notice shall also require the building,
structure or portion thereof to be vacated forthwith and not reoccupied until
the specified repairs and improvements are completed, inspected, and approved
by the Building or Fire Official.
         (b)   The Building or Fire Official shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to the building a notice: "This building is unsafe. And its use or
occupancy has been prohibited by the Building or Fire Official."
         (c)   The notice shall remain posted until the required repairs are
made or demolition is completed.
         (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or
their agents, or other servants, to remove the notice without written
permission of the Building or Fire Official or for any person to enter the
building except for the purpose of making the required repairs or demolishing
same.
      (3)   The owner, agent or person in control shall have the right, except
in cases of emergency, to appeal the decision of the Building or Fire Official,
as provided herein, and to appear before the Town Council at a specified time
and place to show cause why he or she should not comply with the notice.
      (4)   In case the owner, agent or person in control cannot be found
within the stated time limit, or if the owner, agent, or person in control
shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with notice to repair, rehabilitate or
to demolish and remove the building or structure or portion thereof, the
Building or Fire Official, after having ascertained the cost, shall cause the
building or structure or portion thereof, to be demolished, secured or required
to remain vacant.
      (5)   The decision of the Building or Fire Official shall be final in
cases of emergency which, in his or her opinion, involve imminent danger to
human life or health. He or she shall promptly cause the building, structure,
or portion thereof to be made safe or removed. For this purpose, he or she may
at once enter the structure or land on which it stands, or abutting land or
structures, with assistance and at cost as he or she may deem necessary. He or
she may vacate adjacent structures and protect the public by appropriate fence
or other means as may be necessary, and for this purpose may close a public or
private way.
      (6)   Cost incurred under divisions (4) and (5) above shall be charged to
the owner of the premises involved and shall be deemed to be a debt owed to the
municipality, which may be collected by appropriate legal action.
(1985 Code, § 14-51) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Building Official or Town Municipal Clerk, as applicable, shall maintain
comprehensive records of building permit applications, permits issued,
certificates issued, of all inspections made, reports rendered and of notices
or orders issued. He or she shall submit written reports at the request of the
Town Council. The Municipal Clerk shall, at all times, keep the Town Council
informed of any controversial or conflicting situations which could jeopardize
the efficiency and consistency of inspections.
(1985 Code, § 14-52) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.23 RECORDS.
   The Building or Fire Official shall keep, or cause to be kept, records of
inspections. He or she shall keep on file copies of all documents relating to
building work so long as any part of the building or structure to which they
relate may be in existence. All records of unsafe building inspections shall be
maintained at the town hall and open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons during stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the town hall without the written consent of the Building or Fire Official.
(1985 Code, § 14-53) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.24 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building or Fire Official may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary, in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of other officials of the town.
(1985 Code, § 14-54) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.25 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter, or where the Building Official or his or her agent has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises
a condition which is contrary to or in violation of this subchapter which makes
the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Building Official
is authorized to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect
or to perform the duties imposed by this subchapter, provided that if such
structure or premises be occupied that credentials be presented to the occupant
and entry requested. If such structure or premises is unoccupied, the Building
Official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge or control of the structure or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Building Official shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
NOISE
§ 93.35 GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, permit or continue any
loud, disturbing, unnecessary or unusual noise. Noise which either annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
others or of actual physical discomfort to a person of ordinary sensibilities
is prohibited within the town limits. Parents or guardians will be held
responsible for the actions of their minors.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and excessive noises in violation of this subchapter; provided, however, that
such enumeration shall not be construed to be exclusive of other noises:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, streetcar or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended or to signal a backing-up of the
vehicle; the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably
loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for any unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The playing or operation of any radio, television, phonograph,
stereo, computer, CD player, cassette player, loudspeaker or similar sound-
producing or sound-emitting device or any musical instrument in such a manner,
or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., as to unreasonably disturb any person in the vicinity thereof;
      (3)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or vehicle so out
of repair, so loaded or operated in such manner as to create loud or
unnecessary noises such as spinning or squealing tires, grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise;
      (4)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (5)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal-combustion engine, motor vehicle or boat engine, except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (6)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, except
pneumatic drills, unless the noise thereby created is effectively muffled and
reduced;
      (7)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from a
duly authorized agent of the Town of South Congaree which permit may be renewed
for a period of three (3) days or less while the emergency continues;
      (8)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same are in session, or
adjacent to any hospital or church or place of worship, which unreasonably
interferes with the working of such institution;
      (9)   The creation of a loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (10)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which is reasonably calculated to disturb a person of ordinary
disposition if such person were in the vicinity thereof;
      (11)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which
disturb the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (12)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale of merchandise; and
      (13)   The use of loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or other vehicles.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNREASONABLY LOUD, EXCESSIVE OR DISTURBING NOISE. Any sound regulated by
this subchapter which is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from its
source.
   (D)   Noises audible in public streets or public places which violate the
standards of this subchapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances which
may be abated by any law officer.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Noises from any authorized emergency vehicle;
      (2)   Noise from church bells or chimes;
      (3)   Noises resulting from events of an entertainment or recreational
nature which are held in the city, parks, public buildings or elsewhere such as
to broadcast programs of music, speeches or general entertainment as a part and
in recognition of the community celebration of national, state or city events,
public festivals or outstanding events to the extent allowed under the terms of
the permit issued by the City Administrator or his or her designee; and
      (4)   Noises resulting from parades to the extent allowed under the terms
of the permit issued by the City Administrator or his or her designee.
   (F)   The owning, possession or harboring of any animal which frequently, or
for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes other sounds
which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a residential or commercial
real property line or within a noise sensitive area.
   (G)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BARKING DOG. A dog that barks, bays, cries, howls or makes any other
noise continuously or incessantly for a period of ten (10) minutes, or barks
intermittently for one-half (1/2) hour or more to the disturbance of any person
at any time of day or night, regardless of whether the dog is physically
situated in or upon private property. However, a dog shall not be deemed a
BARKING DOG if, at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise, a
person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which
the dog is situated.
   (H)   The complaints of more than one (1) persons and/or the complaint of a
police officer are prima facie evidence that a sound regulated by this section
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others in violation of this subchapter.
   (I)   Any persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not exceeding $500 or be imprisoned in the county jail for a period
not exceeding 30 days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such.
   (J)   In addition to the penalty provided by division (I) of this section,
and as an additional remedy, the operation or maintenance of any device,
instrument or machinery in violation of any provisionof this subchapter which
operation or maintenance causes discomfort or annoyance to reasonable persons
of normal sensitiveness or which endangers the comfort, repose, health or peace
of residents in the area shall be deemed, and is declared to be, a public
nuisance and may be subject to abatement summarily by a restraining order or
injunction issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1985 Code, § 26-51) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §
94.01
§ 93.36 OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the operation of a motor vehicle to
cause, suffer or allow any loud, excessive or unusual noise in the operation or
use of such motor vehicle upon any of the streets of the town.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.37 SOUNDING HORNS OR SIGNALING DEVICES ON VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any automobile, motorcycle, truck,
bus or other vehicle to sound any horn or audible signal device in any other
manner of circumstances or for any other purpose than required by law.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.38 BLOWING STEAM WHISTLES, ELECTRIC HORNS OR SIMILAR DEVICES.
   Except as required by law, no person shall blow or cause to be blown within
the town any steam whistle, electric horn or other sound-producing device
except as alarm signals in case of fire or collision or other imminent danger.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.39 RACING ENGINES OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to race the engine of any motor vehicle
while such vehicle is not in motion, except when necessary to do so in the
course of repairing, adjusting or testing the vehicle.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.40 NOISES IN CONNECTION WITH LOADING OR UNLOADING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit to be used any
automobile, truck, bus, motorcycle or other vehicle, engine, stationary or
moving, instrument, device or other thing so out of repair, or so loaded in
such a manner, as to create any loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening or destruction of bales,
boxes, crates or containers.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.41 RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER SOUND-AMPLIFYING
DEVICES.
   (A)   Disturbing the public generally. It shall be unlawful for any person
to maintain and operate in any building or on any premises in the town any
radio device or mechanical musical instrument or device of any kind whereby the
sound therefrom is cast directly upon the public streets and places in such a
manner as to create unreasonably loud, excessive or disturbing noises and where
such device is maintained and operated for advertising purposes or for the
purpose of attracting the attention of the passing public, or which is so
placed and operated that the sounds coming therefrom can be heard to the
annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any street, park or public place
or of persons on neighboring premises.
   (B)   Disturbing persons in hotel or dwelling. It shall be unlawful for any
person to play any radio, phonograph or musical instrument in such a manner or
with such volume, particularly between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence.
   (C)   Creating public nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate, or cause or permit to be operated, any instrument or sound-producing
or sound-amplifying device so loudly as to unreasonably disturb persons in the
vicinity thereof or in such a manner as renders the instrument or device a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Permit for special occasions. Upon application to the Town Council,
permits may be granted to responsible organizations to broadcast programs of
music, speeches or general entertainment as a part and in recognition of the
community celebration of national, state or city events, public festivals or
outstanding events of a noncommercial character, provided that traffic on the
streets is not obstructed by reason thereof.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.42 CRYING OUT OR PLAYING BELLS, DRUMS OR OTHER INSTRUMENT TO ATTRACT
ATTENTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any noise upon a public street
or in such proximity thereto as to be distinctly and loudly audible upon such
street by any kind of crying, calling or shouting, or by means of any whistle,
rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical instrument or other
device for the purpose of attracting attention or of inviting patronage of any
persons to any business whatsoever.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.43 BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in conducting any building operations
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. to operate or use any piledrivers,
steam shovels, pneumatic hammers, derricks, steam or electric hoists or other
apparatus, the use of which is attended with loud or unusual noise, in any
block in which more than half of the buildings on either side of the street are
used exclusively for residence purposes.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.44 AUDIBLE SIGNAL ALARM DEVICES.
   The following requirements as to the audible signal alarm devices shall
apply to all buildings in the town:
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates ro requires a
different meaning.
      AUDIBLE SIGNAL ALARM DEVICE. Any mechanism, equipment or system which is
designed to operate automatically through the use or emission of an audible
signal, message or warning.
   (B)   Filing and posting of names of persons authorized to shut off alarm.
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building in the city to
cause or allow such building to contain or otherwise use an audible signal
alarm device unless there is filed with the Police Department and posted on one
or more of the usual entrances to the building, in a conspicuous place and
manner visible from without the entrance, a list of the names and telephone
numbers of persons who have access to and can shut down the device if the
device is triggered or otherwise emits an audible signal or noise.
   (C)   Availability of persons authorized to shut off alarm. It shall be the
duty of the owner or occupant to ensure that one or more of the persons whose
telephone numbers are so listed shall be available at those telephone numbers
at all hours and times, or in the alternative, that the owner or occupant
notify the Chief of Police of the town, or such person as the chief of police
may designate, of the telephone numbers at which one or more of those persons
may be reached.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.45 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Noises from any authorized emergency vehicle;
      (2)   Noise from church bells or chimes;
      (3)   Noises resulting from events of an entertainment or recreational
nature which are held in the town, parks, public buildings or elsewhere such as
to broadcast programs of music, speeches or general entertainment as a part and
in recognition of the community celebration of national, state or town events,
public festivals or outstanding events to the extent allowed under the terms of
the permit issued by the Town Administrator or his or her designee; and
      (4)   Noises resulting from parades to the extent allowed under the terms
of the permit issued by the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
   (B)   (1)   The owning, possession or harboring of any animal which
frequently, or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks or makes
other sounds which create excessive and unnecessary noise across a residential
or commercial real property line or within a noise sensitive area.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         BARKING DOG. A dog that barks, bays, cries, howls or makes any other
noise continuously or incessantly for a period of ten (10) minutes, or barks
intermittently for one-half (1/2) hour or more to the disturbance of any person
at any time of day or night, regardless of whether the dog is physically
situated in or upon private property. However, a dog shall not be deemed a
BARKING DOG if, at the time the dog is barking or making any other noise, a
person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon property in or upon which
the dog is situated.
   (C)   The complaints of more than one (1) persons and/or the complaint of a
police officer are prima facie evidence that a sound regulated by this section
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 93.46 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of this subchapter or failure to comply with any of its provisions
shall be a misdemeanor punishable, upon conviction, in accordance with §
93.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(1985 Code, § 26-51) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
ABANDONED OR JUNK VEHICLES
§ 93.50 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is left on any right-of-way or any
road or highway in the town for a period of over 48 hours or a motor vehicle
that has remained on private or other public property for a period of more than
seven (7) days without the consent of the owner or person in control of the
property.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is unregistered, partially dismantled, non-
operating or wrecked or is a derelict vehicle under state law.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained or when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for the purpose of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is self-propelled and which is required to
be registered and licensed pursuant to S.C. Code § 56-3-110.
(1985 Code, § 26-41) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicle and derelict vehicle, see S.C.
    Code § 56-5-5810
   Vehicle, see S.C. Code § 56-3-20
§ 93.51 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle at any place within the town for any
time and under any circumstances as to cause the vehicle to appear to have been
abandoned.
(1985 Code, § 26-42) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.52 PARKING AND STORAGE OF CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the town,
whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise shall allow any junk
vehicle to remain on property longer than 30 days. This subchapter shall not
apply to vehicles which are parked in a completely enclosed building, vehicles
on the premises of a business where the vehicle is a part of the business
purpose, vehicles which are the subject of litigation in any court in the state
or vehicles in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
   (B)   Any owner so notified of a violation shall have the following options.
      (1)   Remove the vehicle completely from the public view by garaging the
vehicle inside a completely enclosed building.
      (2)   The vehicle may be removed from public view by fencing the back
yard. This fence shall be constructed of chain link fence with aluminum panel
weave or solid wood privacy fencing, both of which must be maintained. Fence
must be of a height that will totally prohibit the view of the vehicle.
(1985 Code, § 26-43) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.53 EXCEPTION.
   The only exception to this subchapter will be vehicles not usually
registered, such as race cars. These vehicles must be kept out of public view.
(1985 Code, Ch. 26) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.54 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall have the authority to remove or have removed
any abandoned or derelict vehicle in accordance with S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5620
through 56-5-5950.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be removed and impounded until lawfully claimed or
disposed of in accordance with S.C. Code §§ 56-5-5620 through 56-5-5950.
(1985 Code, § 26-44) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 93.60 SMOKING OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Findings. As an incident of the adoption of this section, the Town
Council makes the following findings.
      (1)   Secondhand smoke is the third leading cause of preventable death in
the United States, killing 53,500 Americans prematurely each year;
      (2)   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, National Toxicology Program’s Report on carcinogens,
National Cancer Institute, and the International Agency for Research On Cancer
have all reported that secondhand smoke is a group A human carcinogen, a cancer
causing substance, of which there is no safe level of exposure;
      (3)   The health consequences of involuntary smoking have been reported
by the U.S. Surgeon General to be a cause of disease, including lung cancer, in
healthy non-smokers;
      (4)   The U.S. Surgeon General has concluded that a simple separation of
smokers and non-smokers within the same airspace does not eliminate the
exposure of non-smokers;
      (5)   Numerous medical and scientific studies show substantial levels of
exposure to secondhand smoke among the U.S. population. And over the past two
(2) decades, the health hazards resulting from exposure to secondhand smoke
have been increasingly recognized;
      (6)   Secondhand smoke increases the risk of developing breast cancer in
younger, premenopausal women; and when inhaled by pregnant women, secondhand
smoke increases the risk for low-weight babies, pre-term delivery, and sudden
infant death syndrome (SIDS);
      (7)   Exposure to secondhand smoke by children leads to decreased lung
function, asthma, pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis and even sudden infant
death syndrome (SIDS);
      (8)   Studies of hospital admissions for acute, myocardial infarction in
Helena, Montana and Pueblo, Colorado before, during, and after a local law
eliminating smoking in workplaces and public places was in effect, had
determined that laws to enforce smoke-free workplaces and public places may be
associated with a reduction in morbidity from heart disease;
      (9)   Workplaces have been shown to be locations of significant exposure
to secondhand tobacco smoke by employees working in the incorporated areas of
the town;
      (10)   There are laws, ordinances, and regulations in place that protect
workers from other environmental hazards, including Class A carcinogens,
asbestos, arsenic and benzene, but none which regulate exposure to secondhand
smoke; and
      (11)   The South Carolina General Assembly at S.C. Code §§ 44-95-10 et
seq. (the “Clean Indoor Air Act of 1990”) imposed certain limitations on
smoking. For example, it limited smoking in government buildings (the
definition of which includes town owned buildings) except where the owner of
such building shall designate smoking areas.
   (B)   Intent. The Town Council finds that is in the best interest of the
people of the incorporated areas of the town to protect nonsmokers from
involuntary exposure to secondhand smoke in the workplace. Therefore, the Town
Council declares that the purpose of this section is:
      (1)   To preserve and improve the health, comfort, and environment of the
people of the incorporated areas of the town by limiting exposure to secondhand
smoke in the workplace; and
      (2)   To guarantee the right of nonsmokers to breathe smoke-free air, and
to recognize that the need
to breathe smoke-free air shall have priority over the desire to smoke.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs services for an employer in return for
wages, profit or other valuable consideration, and/or a person who volunteers
his or her services for a nonprofit entity.
      EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, trust,
school, college, university or other educational institution, nonprofit entity
or other organization, including any public or private employer, any manager,
supervisor, and all other persons charged with control, supervision, and
operation of any workplace, work space, or work spaces as defined herein, that
employs one (1) or more persons.
      ENCLOSED. A space bounded by walls (with or without windows), a ceiling
or roof, and enclosed by doors, including but not limited to, offices, rooms,
foyers, waiting areas and halls.
      PRIVATE CLUB. An organization, whether incorporated or not, which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used exclusively
for club purposes at all times, which
is operated solely for a recreational, social, patriotic, political,
benevolent, or athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and which only
sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation. The affairs and
management of the organization are conducted by a board of directors, executive
committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an annual meeting. The
organization has established bylaws and/or a constitution to govern its
activities. The organization has been granted an exemption from the payment of
federal income tax as a club under 26 U.S.C. § 501. Establishments which are in
fact operating as bars, restaurants, or entertainment venues primary for the
pecuniary benefit of the owner or chief operating officer shall not be treated
as PRIVATE CLUBS under this definition when being used for a function to which
the general public is allowed to enter.
      RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. Any establishment which is not required to possess
a retail food permit whose primary purpose is to sell or offer for sale to
consumers, but not for resale, tobacco products and paraphernalia, in which the
sale of other products is merely incidental, and in which the entry of persons
under the age of 18 is prohibited at all times.
      SECONDHAND SMOKE. The complex mixture formed from the escaping smoke of a
burning tobacco product (termed as “sidestream smoke”) and smoke exhaled by the
smoker. Exposure to secondhand smoke is also frequently referred to as PASSIVE
SMOKING, SECONDHAND SMOKING, or INVOLUNTARY SMOKING.
      SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, burning, lighting or carrying of a
lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or similar device or any other lighted tobacco
product.
      SMOKING MATERIALS. Includes cigars, cigarettes and all other manner of
smoking devices intended to be used for the purpose of inhaling, burning,
carrying or exhaling lighted tobacco products.
      WORKPLACE. Any enclosed indoor area, structure, building or facility or
any portion thereof at which one (1) or more employee(s) perform services for
their employer, including but not limited to: retail food stores, retail
stores, restaurants, bars, cabarets, cafes, public or private clubs, pool
halls, and bowling alleys.
      WORK SPACE or WORK SPACES. Any enclosed area occupied by an employee
during the course of his or her employment, including but not limited to:
offices, customer service areas, common areas, hallways, waiting areas,
restrooms, lounges, and eating areas.
   (D)   Prohibition of smoking in the workplace. The following apply to all
incorporated areas of the town:
      (1)   All employers shall provide a smoke-free environment for all
employees working in any work space or workplaces as those terms are defined
herein. Further, the employer shall prohibit any persons present in any work
space or workplace from smoking tobacco products therein.
      (2)   No person shall smoke or possess a lighted tobacco product in any
work space or workplace.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, an owner,
operator, manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility or
outdoor area may declare the entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as
a nonsmoking location. Smoking shall then be prohibited in any place in which a
sign conforming to the requirements of this section is posted.
   (E)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D) herein,
smoking may be permitted in the following places in the incorporated areas of
the town under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Private residences;
      (2)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated
as smoking rooms; provided however, that not more than 25% of rooms rented to
guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated. All smoking rooms on the same
floor must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate areas
where smoking is prohibited under provisions of this section. The status of
rooms as smoking or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to add additional
nonsmoking rooms;
      (3)   Retail tobacco stores as defined herein;
      (4)   Private clubs that have no employees, except when being used for a
function to which the general public is admitted; and
      (5)   Religious ceremonies where smoking is part of the ritual.
   (F)   Posting of signs. The owner, manager, or person in control of a
workplace shall post a conspicuous sign at the main entrance to the workplace,
which shall contain the words “No Smoking” and the universal symbol for no
smoking.
   (G)   Reasonable distance. In the incorporated area of the town, smoking is
prohibited within a distance of ten (10) feet from any door which is used as an
entrance to or exit from an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited so as to
ensure that tobacco smoke does not enter the area through the entry. This
distance shall be measured from the center of the door in question.
   (H)   Jurisdiction; enforcement.
      (1)   A person, who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a
workplace or work space and who fails to comply with the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of an infraction.
      (2)   A person smoking or possessing a lighted tobacco product in any
work space or workplace shall be guilty of an infraction.
   (I)   Governmental agency cooperation. The Municipal Clerk shall request
other governmental and educational agencies having facilities within the
incorporated areas of the town to establish local operating procedures in
cooperation and compliance with this section. This includes urging all federal,
state, county, city, and school district agencies to update their existing
smoking control regulations to be consistent with the current health findings
regarding secondhand smoke.
(Ord. 93-60, passed 7-20-2010; Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see
§
93.99
“BATH SALTS” AND/OR SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA
§ 93.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATH SALTS (METHYLONE, MEPHEDRONE, METHYLMETHCATHINONE, FLUOROMETHCATHINONE
OR METHYLENEDIOXYPYROVALERON [MDPV]). Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation, whether produced directly or indirectly from a substance of
vegetable origin or independently bymeans of chemical synthesis or by a
combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, that contains any quantity of
the following substances, or that contains any of the following substances:
analogs, salts, isomers, and salts of isomers when the existence of the
analogs, salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific
chemical designation: methylone, mephedrone, methoxymethcathinone,
fluoromethcathinone or methylenedioxypyrovalerone (MDPV).
   SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA. All chemical compounds intended to replicate, mimic or
cause a similar reaction to the effects of marijuana or cannabis. Such
compounds are known or marketed under such names as THC, HU-210,
Cannabicyclohexanol, JWH-018, JWH- 073, K2, Spice, herbal incense, herbal
smoking blends, and other names. Further, synthetic marijuana shall be
considered an illegal narcotic as further provided in the town code.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.71 POSSESSION, DISTRIBUTION OR CONSUMPTION OF METHYLONE, MEPHEDRONE,
METHYLMETHCATHINONE, FLUOROMETHCATHINONE, OR METHYLENEDIOXYPYROVALERON (MDPV),
COLLECTIVELY “BATH SALTS” AND/OR SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA.
   It is unlawful for a person to use, offer for use, purchase, offer to
purchase, sell, offer to sell, or possess synthetic marijuana and/or bath salts
unless prescribed by a licensed physician. Licensed health care providers,
pharmacists and medical or pharmaceutical research facilities are exempted from
the prohibitions against using, possessing, selling or purchasing bath salts
when used, purchased, sold or possessed for patient treatment or medical or
pharmaceutical research.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.72 ADVERTISEMENT, SALE, AND USE PROHIBITED.
   The advertisement, sale and use of synthetic marijuana and/or bath salts is
prohibited within the town.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Litter. Any person violating the provision of §§
93.01 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined up to $500 or 30 days in jail. Each and every day the violation occurs
can be considered a separate violation.
(1985 Code, § 14-26)
   (C)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. Penalty shall be as set forth in §
10.99.
(1985 Code, § 26-45)
   (D)   Smoking in places of employment. Any infraction as described in §
93.60 of this code is punishable by a fine of $25. Each day on which a
violation of that section occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct
infraction. A violation of §
93.60 is furthermore declared to be a public nuisance.
   (E)   “Bath salts” and/or synthetic marijuana. The fine upon conviction
shall be the maximum amount able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 without
indictment by grand jury or imprisonment for a time not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 93-60, passed 5-18-2010; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-02,
passed 1-21-2020)
APPENDIX: REFUSE COLLECTION PRACTICE
                    Wastes from the preparation, cooking
Garbage             and serving of food
                    Market refuse, waste from the handling,
                    storage and sale of produce and meats
                                        Paper, cardboard,
                                        cartons
                                        Wood, boxes,
                                        excelsior           From:
                    Combustible         Plastics            households,
                    (primarily organic) Rags, cloth,        institutions and
                                        bedding             commercial concerns
                                        Leather, rubber     such as hotels,
Rubbish                                 Grass, leaves, yard stores,
                                        trimmings           restaurants,
                                        Metals, tin cans,   market,
                                        metal foils         incinerators and
                    Non-combustible     Dirt                the like
                    (primarily          Stones, bricks,
                    inorganic)          ceramics, crockery
                                        Glass, bottles
                                        Other mineral
                                        refuse
Ashes               Residue from fires used for cooking and
                    for heating buildings, cinders
                    Large auto parts, tires
                    Stoves, refrigerators, other large
Bulky Wastes        appliances
                    Furniture, large crates
                    Tress, branches, palm fronds, stumps,
                    foliage
                    Street sweepings, dirt
Street Refuse       Leaves                                  From:
                    Catch basin dirt                        streets,
                    Contents of litter receptacles          sidewalks,
                    Small animals: cats, dogs, poultry and  alleys,
Dead Animals        the like                                vacant lots and the
                    Large animals: horses, cows and the     like
                    like
Abandoned Vehicles  Automobiles, trucks
                    Lumber, roofing and sheathing scraps
Construction and    Rubble, broken concrete, plaster and
Demolition Wastes   the like
                    Conduit, pipes, wire, insulation and
                    the like
                    Solid wastes resulting from industrial
                    processes and manufacturing operations  From:
Industrial Refuse   such as: food-processing wastes, boiler factories, power
                    house cinders, wood, plastic and metal  plants and the like
                    scraps and shavings and the like
                    Hazardous wastes: pathological wastes,  From:
                    explosives, radioactive materials       households,
Special Wastes      Security wastes: confidential           hospitals,
                    documents, negotiable papers and the    institutions,
                    like                                    stores, industry
                                                            and the like
Animal and          Manures, crop residues                  From:
Agricultural Wastes                                         farms, feed lots
                                                            From:
Sewage Treatment    Coarse screenings, grit, septic tank    sewage treatment
Residue             sludge, dewatered sludge                plants, septic
                                                            tanks
 
(1985 Code, Sec. 14) (Am. Ord. 2020-02, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 94:
PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   General prohibition
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unsanitary, unsightly and unsafe conditions
   
94.04   Duty of owner, lessee, occupant or agent
   
94.05   Street uses by the public
   
94.06   Conditions affording food or harborage for rats
   
94.07   Conditions: open lots, alleys and the like
   
94.08   Abatement authority; refusal to abate
   
94.09   Weeds and debris
   
94.10   Reserved
   
94.11   Reserved
   
94.12   Reserved
   
94.13   Notice to owner to remedy or remove condition
   
94.14   Correction or removal of conditions by town
   
94.15   Standards
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see §
92.35
§ 94.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner or occupant
of such premises, to permit or create a public nuisance on his or her premises
or lot, or to allow a nuisance to remain on such premises or lot, or to create
a public nuisance adjacent to his or her premises or in any public place which
is so located upon the premises as to be readily visible from any public place
or from any surrounding private property.
   (B)   Nuisances affecting health. The following are declared to be examples
of such nuisances, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Garbage, trash or refuse, except garbage, trash or refuse stored in
authorized sealed receptacles specifically on designated trash collection days;
      (2)   Dilapidated or unusable furniture or furniture for “indoor use”;
      (3)   Bedding, bottles, glass, cans, cardboard, upholstered furniture
manufactured for indoor use only, household appliances, or jars;
      (4)   Unusable or discarded iceboxes, refrigerators, stoves or other
appliances;
      (5)   Unusable or discarded machinery or equipment or parts thereof;
      (6)   Used and discarded building materials;
      (7)   Lumber and building supplies not related to an active permit and
not neatly stacked;
      (8)   Broken and discarded glass;
      (9)   Any other item which is either wholly or partially rusted, wrecked,
junked, dismantled, discarded, or inoperative;
      (10)   Used or discarded clothing;
      (11)   Animal carcasses not buried or disposed of in a lawful and
sanitary manner within 24 hours after death;
      (12)   All pools of stagnant water or vessels holding stagnant water in
which mosquitoes can breed, excluding required retention pools;
      (13)   Swimming pools which either:
         (a)   Are empty, excluding such pools that are completely and
effectively covered; or
         (b)   Contain liquids and/or debris which are not bacteriological,
chemically or physically safe for swimming or other intended uses;
      (14)   Leaking septic tanks or sewer lines or other sewage existing in an
unsanitary manner;
      (15)   Decayed vegetables and fruits;
      (16)   Any natural or manmade matter which causes an offensive odor;
      (17)   Dead, dying or damaged trees that present an imminent danger to
life or property;
      (18)   Weeds or other rank growths of vegetation upon private or public
property, and all other vegetation of any age of maturity which exceeds 12
inches in height (except for healthy trees, shrubs or plants grown in a tended
and cultivated garden or plot regardless of height) that harbors, conceals or
invites rodents, pests, and vermin or deposits of refuse; gives off noxious
odors; or constitutes a fire or traffic safety hazard;
      (19)   Vacant lots when such properties abut residence or public rights-
of-way; a minimum 40-foot strip shall be cleared and maintained. Where such
clearing of the 40-foot strip results in more than 50% of the lot being cut,
then the entire lot shall be required to be cut;
      (20)   Deliberate placement or discharge into any part of a storm water
drainage system of:
         (a)   Untreated sewage; sewage solids; process wastewater; refuse;
explosive or combustible liquids, solids or gasses; oil greases; or industrial
water or other polluted water, except where a federal, state or local permit
for connections allows discharge or disposal has been obtained prior to the
event;
         (b)   Waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous wastes to
constitute a hazard to humans, plants or animals or to cause corrosion,
discoloration or deposition on real or personal property; or
         (c)   Any solid or viscous substances in such quantities or such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the storm water drainage system
or other interference with the proper operation of the drainage system of the
town; and
      (21)   Anything that threatens or causes injury to the life or health of
any person or significant damage to property.
      (22)   For purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         OUTSIDE A DWELLING OR OTHER ENCLOSED STRUCTURE. Any location that is
not within the interior of a dwelling or other enclosed structure. Porches,
balconies, decks, carports or other similar structures, unless completely
enclosed, shall be deemed to be outside a dwelling or other enclosed structure.
Temporary materials cannot be used to enclose a structure.
   (C)   Nuisances offending public decency, peace and order. The following are
hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting public decency, peace and
order whether such violations are of an intermittent, cyclical, continual,
reoccurring or constant nature; and when the responsible party generates,
enables, or contributes to the occurrence of the unlawful behavior by an
absence or failure of property management policy or practice, absence or
failure of control over the property, absence or failure of supervision of
guests or invitees, or absence or failure of security measures.
      (1)   Any structure, whether commercial or residential, where gambling
devices, slot machines, punch boards and other such contrivances of similar
character involving any elements of chance as a consideration or any type of
gambling, bookmaking, wagering or betting is carried on, and all gambling
equipment, except where such specific form of gambling is permitted by
applicable law;
      (2)   Any structure, whether commercial or residential, used and
maintained for the commercial or criminal purposes of unlawful sexual activity
in violation of federal, state or local law;
      (3)   Any structure, whether commercial or residential, where
intoxicating liquors are manufactured, sold, bartered or given away in
violation of federal, state or local law; or where intoxicating liquors are
kept for sale, barter or distribution in violation of federal, state or local
law, and all liquors, bottles, kegs, pumps, bars and other property are kept at
and used for maintaining such a place; or where required safety plans are not
in place; or where persistent violations of law occur under a failed or
ineffective safety plan;
      (4)   Any structure, whether commercial or residential, where acts of
sale, manufacture, possession or distribution of controlled substances occur in
violation of federal, state and local law;
      (5)   Any structure, whether a commercial operation or a residential use,
where violations against the federal, state or municipal laws occur with
disproportionate frequency or intensity that they require an excessive public
safety response cost.
      (6)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         EXCESSIVE PUBLIC SAFETY RESPONSE. There has been:
            1.   The reasonable deployment of five (5) or more law enforcement
officers to an emergency scene at any one time, or the reoccurring need for
public safety or code personnel or emergency vehicles at the location when
compared to the frequency or intensity of law or regulation enforcement
required at other similarly situated structures;
            2.   More than two (2) situations of unsafe traffic or crowd
control issues which result in the request of emergency assistance or the need
for law enforcement assistance from an emergency situation; provided, however,
this does not include when traffic control or crowd control is requested in
advance of a scheduled event pursuant to a city issued permit or prior
discussions with law enforcement;
            3.   More than six (6) citations, search warrants, or a combination
of the two (2) executed at that structure for any of the following behaviors
during any 12 month period:
               a.    Violation of any state or local alcohol law;
               b.    Violation of any federal, state or local narcotics law;
               c.    Violation of any state or local gun law;
               d.    Assaults; and/or
               e.    Crimes of violence against another person(s).
   (D)   Nuisances affecting public welfare and safety. The following are
declared to be public nuisance affecting public welfare and safety:
      (1)   All trees, hedges, signs or other obstructions or any portion of
the same so located on private property which prevent persons driving vehicles
approaching an intersection of streets from having a clear, safe view of
traffic approaching such intersection pursuant to the town Zoning Ordinance and
subdivision regulations;
      (2)   All trees, hedges, signs or other obstructions or any portion of
the same so located on private property which prevent the clear and
unobstructed view of a fire hydrant, fire department or other fire protection
device or directional or identification signage pertaining to the above from a
public way;
      (3)   Any obstruction, erosion or depression which poses a potential
hazard to vehicles or pedestrians using a right-of-way on private property
where the public is invited or permitted to traverse for commercial purposes;
      (4)   Any wires, strings, ropes, lighting contrivances over streets,
alley or public grounds, which are not authorized or permitted by the town or
which are strung so that the lowest portion is less than 13 and one-half (13-
1/2) feet above the surface of the ground;
      (5)   All explosives, flammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner, in any amount other than that manner or amount permitted
by law;
      (6)   Any hanging signs, awnings, canopies and other similar structures
over the streets or sidewalks so situated or constructed as to endanger public
safety or to be contrary to this code;
      (7)   Any motor vehicle that is unregistered, inoperable, derelict or
abandoned on any highway or right-of-way or other public or private property,
unless such vehicle is stored inside of a building; or
      (8)   Any abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, ice chest or other
type of air-tight container whose door, lid or other closing device has not
been removed.
   (E)   Nuisances affecting public economy. The following are declared public
nuisances affecting the public economy:
      (1)   All structures, including signs, that bear graffiti;
      (2)   All structures, including signs, with the majority of the surface
in need of painting; re-lettering due to flaking, fading, or cracking or other
conditions that make it unsightly; and
      (3)   All signs that do not apply to a currently licensed and operating
business.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance.
(1985 Code, § 26-201) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ANIMAL AND AGRICULTURAL WASTES. Manure, crop residues and the like.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings,
cinders and from incinerators.
   BEACH. The area between the mean high-water mark and the mean low-water mark
along a reservoir, along a lake or along a river.
   BULKY WASTE. Large auto parts, tires, stoves, refrigerators, other large
appliances, furniture, large crates, trees, branches, and stumps.
   COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. Paper, cardboard, cartons, boxes, wood, wood shavings,
plastics, rags, cloth, bedding, leather, rubber, grass, leaves, limbs and yard
trimmings.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTES. Lumber, roofing and sheathing, scraps,
rubble, broken concrete, plaster, conduit, pipe, wire, insulation and the like.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Small animals such as cats, dogs, poultry and the like and
large animals such as horses, cows, swine and the like.
   GARBAGE. Wastes from the preparation, cooking and serving of food; market
refuse; and waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce and meats.
   INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. Solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and
manufacturing operations, such as food processing wastes, boiler house cinders,
wood, plastic, and metal scraps and shavings and the like.
   LITTER. Garbage, combustible and non-combustible rubbish, ashes, bulky
wastes, street refuse, dead animals, abandoned vehicles, construction and
demolition wastes, industrial wastes, special wastes, animal and agricultural
wastes and sewage treatment residue. The term as used in this chapter shall be
interchangeable with the term SOLID WASTE.
   NON-COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. Metals, tin cans, metal foils, dirt, stone, bricks,
ceramics, crockery, glass, bottles and other mineral refuse.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT RESIDUES. Coarse screening, grits, septic tank, sludge and
dewatered sludge.
   SPECIAL WASTES. Hazardous wastes, such as pathological wastes, explosives,
radioactive material, and the like; and security wastes, such as confidential
documents, negotiable paper and the like.
(1985 Code, Art. I, Div. 2) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 94.03 UNSANITARY, UNSIGHTLY AND UNSAFE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including the owner or occupant
of such premises, to permit or create unsanitary, unsightly and/or unsafe
conditions on his or her premises or lot; or to allow unsanitary, unsightly
and/or unsafe conditions to remain on such premises or lot, or to create a
unsanitary, unsightly and/or unsafe conditions adjacent to his or her premises
or in any public place which is so located upon the premises as to be readily
visible from any public place or from any surrounding private property.
   (B)   The following are declared to be examples of such unsanitary,
unsightly and/or unsafe conditions, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Garbage, trash or refuse, except garbage, trash or refuse stored in
authorized sealed receptacles specifically on designated trash collection days;
      (2)   Dilapidated or unusable furniture;
      (3)   Unusable or discarded iceboxes, refrigerators, stoves or other
appliances;
      (4)   Unusable or discarded machinery or equipment or parts thereof;
      (5)   Used and discarded building materials;
      (6)   Broken and discarded glass;
      (7)   Any other item which is either wholly or partially rusted, wrecked,
junked, dismantled, discarded, or inoperative;
      (8)   Used or discarded clothing;
      (9)   Dead animals;
      (10)   Stagnant water;
      (11)   Decayed vegetables and fruits;
      (12)   Any natural or manmade matter which causes an offensive odor;
      (13)   Dead, dying or damaged trees that present an imminent danger to
life or property; and
      (14)   Anything that threatens or causes injury to the life or health of
any person or significant damage to property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the occupant or owner of any property within
the town to allow any of the following items to remain on the property outside
a dwelling or other enclosed structure for longer than 48 hours, in any
location visible from streets or sidewalks adjacent to the property: bedding,
bottles, glass, cans, cardboard, upholstered furniture manufactured for indoor
use only, household appliances, jars, lumber and building supply materials not
related to an active permit and not neatly stacked, machine parts, motor
vehicles parts, pallets, paper, plumbing fixtures, rags, and scrap metal.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OUTSIDE A DWELLING OR OTHER ENCLOSED STRUCTURE. Any location that is not
within the interior of a dwelling or other enclosed structure. Porches,
balconies, decks, carports or other similar structures, unless completely
enclosed, shall be deemed to be outside a dwelling or other enclosed structure.
Temporary materials cannot be used to enclose a structure.
   (E)   The occupant or lessee of any premises and the owner, his or her
agent, representative or employee having control of any vacant premises within
the town, who shall permit or tolerate the existence of any of the conditions
condemned in this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 26-202) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DUTY OF OWNER, LESSEE, OCCUPANT OR AGENT.
   It shall be the duty of any owner and any lessee, occupant, agent or
representative of the owner of any lot or parcel of land to cut or cause to cut
all weeds, grass and other rank vegetation and to remove all garbage, trash and
other debris as often as may be necessary to prevent the development of any of
the conditions prohibited in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 26-203) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 STREET USES BY THE PUBLIC.
   It shall be the duty of any owner of a street which is used by the public to
maintain the street in a reasonable state of repair so as not to endanger the
public order or annoy, injure, endanger, interfere with or render insecure the
health, safety, good order or property rights of the whole community or of any
considerable number of persons.
(1985 Code, § 26-204) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 CONDITIONS AFFORDING FOOD OR HARBORAGE FOR RATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, leave, dump or permit to
accumulate any garbage, rubbish or trash in any building, vehicle and their
surrounding areas in the town so that the same shall or may afford food or
harborage for rats.
   (B)   All food and feed kept within the town for feeding chickens, cows,
pigs, horses and other animals shall be kept and stored in rat-free and rat-
proof containers, compartments or rooms unless kept in a rat-proof building.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit to accumulate on any
premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lot or alley in the town any
lumber, boxes, barrels, bricks, stones or similar materials that may be
permitted to remain thereon, unless the materials shall be placed on open racks
that are elevated not less than 12 inches above the ground and evenly piled or
stacked so that these materials will not offer harborage for rats.
(1985 Code, § 26-205) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 CONDITIONS: OPEN LOTS, ALLEYS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful and constitute a nuisance for any person to permit to
accumulate on any premises, improved or vacant, or on any open lots or alleys
in the town, any lumber, boxes, barrels, bricks, stones or similar materials
and permit them to remain thereon unless; the same shall be placed on open
racks that are elevated not less than 18 inches above the ground and evenly
piled and stacked, so that these materials will not afford harborage for rats
or violate any other provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 26-206) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 ABATEMENT AUTHORITY; REFUSAL TO ABATE.
   (A)   The Police Chief, Code Enforcement Officer or his or her authorized
agent may declare as nuisances such things which may be deemed unhealthy or
harmful to the citizens, and such nuisances shall be abated pursuant to
directions to the following sections.
   (B)   Any person refusing or neglecting to abate a nuisance after having
been directed to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
   (C)   The Police Chief, Code Enforcement Officer or his or her duly
authorized agent, upon receiving notice of the existence of any condition
declared by this chapter to be a nuisance and upon finding evidence to support
the complaint shall serve written notice upon the person responsible for the
condition to clean up his or her premises and abate the nuisances within ten
(10) days.
   (D)   It shall be sufficient notification to deliver the written notice or a
copy thereof to the person to whom it is addressed or to deposit a copy thereof
of the notice in the United States mail properly stamped and directed to the
person at his or her last known address and post a copy of the notice thereof
on the premises upon which the nuisance exists.
(1985 Code, § 26-206) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 WEEDS AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Removal required. It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or occupant
of property to fail to cut grass, weeds and other overgrowth vegetation on
property when the grass, weeds and other overgrowth vegetation is of a greater
height than one (1) foot on the average, or to permit the property to serve as
a breeding place for mosquitoes, as a refuge for rats and snakes, as a
collecting place for trash and litter, or as a fire hazard, any one of which
situations is declared to be a nuisance. It shall be the duty of the owner and
occupant to cut and remove all grass, weeds and other overgrowth vegetation as
often as necessary so as to comply with this section. Vacant lots shall be cut
at least three (3) times per year, as required during the growing season (April
through September).
   (B)   Notice to remove. Whenever the duly authorized agent of the town shall
find that weeds or other rank vegetation has been allowed to stand upon, or any
such debris has been allowed to accumulate and remain upon, any lot or parcel
of land in the town, the authorized agent may serve notice upon the owner,
lessee or occupant of the premises or upon the agent or representative of the
owner of such land having control thereof to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. It shall be sufficient notification to deliver the notice to the
person to whom it is addressed, or to deposit a copy of such notice in the
United States Mail properly stamped and directed to the person to whom the
notice is addressed, or to post a copy of the notice upon such premises.
   (C)   Removal by town on failure to comply with notice. If the person to
whom the notice is directed under the provisions of division (B) of this
section fails or neglects to cause such weeds or other rank vegetation to be
cut and removed or such debris to be removed from any such premises within ten
(10) days after such notice has been served, deposited in the United States
Mail, or posted upon the premises, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable, upon conviction, in accordance with §
10.99
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 94.10 [RESERVED.]
§ 94.11 [RESERVED.]
§ 94.12 [RESERVED.]
§ 94.13 NOTICE TO OWNER TO REMEDY OR REMOVE CONDITION.
   (A)   Whenever it appears that any property owner is in violation of a
provision in this chapter, as evaluated upon preliminary investigation by the
Police Chief, Code Enforcement Officer or his or her duly authorized agent, the
owner of such premises shall be notified personally by the Police Chief, Code
Enforcement Officer or his or her duly authorized agent or by certified mail
return receipt requested at the official address for tax notices to correct the
condition. In the event personal service cannot be made or the owner’s official
address for tax notices is unknown, such notice shall be given by publication
at least two (2) times within 30 consecutive days in a local newspaper of
general circulation.
   (B)   If the corrective action demanded in the notice has not been fully
completed within 30 days of the date of notification, the owner of the premises
shall be fined in accordance with §
94.99.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 94.14 CORRECTION OR REMOVAL OF CONDITIONS BY TOWN.
   In the event any owner of any lot or premises upon which a condition
described in this chapter exists fails to remedy the condition within 30 days
after notification, the town may, in its own discretion, do such work or make
improvements as are necessary to correct, remedy, or remove such condition or
cause the same to be done, paid therefor, and charge the expenses incurred
thereby to any and all owners of such lot in joint and severable liability for
any and all expenses incurred. The doing of such work shall not relieve such
person from prosecution or failure to comply with such notice. Such expenses
shall be assessed against the lot or real estate upon which the work was done
or the improvements made through a lien on property.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 94.15 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (B)   If any other provision of any other chapter of this code is clearly in
conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Any other provisions determined by the Planning Commission,
Architectural Review Board or the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a detrimental
effect on the surrounding neighborhood and businesses.
   (D)   If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter should be
held to be unconstitutional or unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of any other section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(1985 Code, § 26-206) (Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 95:
PARADES
Section
   
95.01   Definition
   
95.02   Permit required
   
95.03   Application for permit
   
95.04   Issuance of permit
   
95.05   Permit terms
§ 95.01 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a PARADE is hereby defined as the
gathering or procession of five (5) or more people, whether on foot, in
vehicles or on animals, and shall include any procession of two (2) or more
vehicles.
   (B)   Emergency vehicles, police and fire vehicles and wedding and funeral
processions are specifically exempted.
(1985 Code, § 26-71)
§ 95.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in any parade unless a
permit for the parade has been issued by the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 26-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a parade permit shall be made to the Town Council at least
30 days prior to the time of the proposed parade. The application shall show
the streets proposed to the used, the approximate number of participants and/or
vehicles and the proposed time of the parade.
(1985 Code, § 26-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Town Council shall issue a parade permit if it finds that the parade
will not unduly inconvenience the public, will not damage the streets of the
city and is not likely to result in public disorder.
(1985 Code, § 26-74)
§ 95.05 PERMIT TERMS.
   In issuing a parade permit, the Town Council may impose regulations and
terms as it deems reasonably necessary to protect the public interest. It shall
be unlawful to violate or fail to comply with the regulations and terms.
(1985 Code, § 26-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   FRANCHISES
      
112.   WRECKER SERVICE
      
113.   SELF STORAGE
      
114.   RESERVED
      
115.   PAWNBROKERS
      
116.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
      
117.   RESERVED
      
118.   LIQUOR STORE
CHAPTER 110:
BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose and duration
   
110.04   License tax
   
110.05   Registration required
   
110.06   Deductions, exemptions, and charitable organizations
   
110.07   False application unlawful
   
110.08   Display and transfer
   
110.09   Administration
   
110.10   Inspection and audits
   
110.11   Assessments; payment under protest; appeal
   
110.12   Delinquent license taxes, partial payment
   
110.13   Notices
   
110.14   Denial of license
   
110.15   Suspension or revocation of license
   
110.16   Appeals to Council
   
110.17   Consent, franchise or license required for use of streets
   
110.18   Confidentiality
   
110.19   Violations
   
110.20   Classification and rates
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged or intending to engage in any calling, business,
occupation or profession, in whole or in part, within the limits of the Town of
South Congaree, South Carolina, is required to pay an annual license tax for
the privilege of doing business and obtain a business license as herein
provided.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS. A calling, occupation, profession, or activity engaged in with the
object of gain, benefit or advantage, either directly or indirectly.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization that is determined by the Internal
Revenue Service to be exempt from federal income taxes under 26 U.S.C. section
501(c)(3), (4), (6), (7), (8), (10) or (19).
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. A benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or eleemosynary
purpose which does not result in personal gain to a sponsor, organizer,
officer, director, trustee or person with ultimate control of the organization.
   CLASSIFICATION. That division of businesses by major groups subject to the
same license rate as determined by a calculated index of ability to pay based
on national averages, benefits, equalization of tax burden, relationships of
services, or other basis deemed appropriate by the Council.
   GROSS INCOME. The gross receipts or gross revenue of a business, received or
accrued for one calendar or fiscal year collected or to be collected from
business done within the municipality excepting therefrom income earned outside
of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to some
other municipality or a county and fully reported to the municipality. GROSS
INCOME for agents means gross commissions received or retained, unless
otherwise specified. GROSS INCOME for insurance
companies means gross premiums written. GROSS INCOME for business license tax
purposes shall not include taxes collected for a governmental entity, escrow
funds, or funds which are the property of a third party. The value of bartered
goods or trade-in merchandise shall be included in gross income. The gross
receipts or gross revenues for business license purposes may be verified by
inspection of returns and reports filed with the Internal Revenue Service, the
South Carolina Department of Revenue, the South Carolina Department of
Insurance, or another government agency.
   LICENSE OFFICIAL. A person designated to administer this chapter.
   LICENSEE. The business, the person applying for the license on behalf of the
business, an agent or legal representative of the business, a person who
receives any part of the net profit of the business, or a person who owns or
exercises control of the business.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Town of South Congaree, South Carolina.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, LLP, LLC, cooperative non-profit
membership, corporation, joint venture, association, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, holding company, or other group or combination
acting as a unit, in the singular or plural, and the agent or employee having
charge or control of a business in the absence of the principal.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE AND DURATION.
   The business license levied by this chapter is for the purpose of providing
such regulation as may be required for the business subject thereto and for the
purpose of raising revenue for the general fund through a privilege tax. Each
yearly license shall be issued for the 12-month period of July 1 to June 30.
The provisions of this chapter and the rates herein shall remain in effect from
year to year as amended by the Council.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.04 LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   The required license tax shall be paid for each business subject
hereto according to the applicable rate classification on or before the due
date of the June 30 in each year.
   (B)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business and
for each classification or business conducted at one place. If gross income
cannot be separated for classifications at one location, the license tax shall
be computed on the combined gross income for the classification requiring the
highest rate. A license tax based on gross income shall be computed on the
gross income for the preceding calendar or fiscal year, and on a 12-month
projected income based on the monthly average for a business in operation for
less than one (1) year. The tax for a new business shall be computed on the
estimated probable gross income stated in the license application for the
balance of the license year. The initial tax for an annexed business shall be
prorated for the number of months remaining in the license year. No refund
shall be made for a business that is discontinued.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, agent or legal representative of every business subject to
this chapter, whether listed in the classification index or not, shall register
the business and make application for a business license on or before the due
date of each year provided a new business shall be required to have a business
license prior to operation within the municipality, and an annexed business
shall be required to have a business license within 30 days of the annexation.
A license for a bar (NAICS 722410) must be issued in the name of the individual
who has been issued a state alcohol, beer or wine permit or license and will
have actual control and management of the business.
   (B)   Application shall be on a form provided by the License Official which
shall contain the social security number and/or the federal employer's
identification number, the business name as reported on the South Carolina
income tax return, and all information about the applicant and the licensee and
the business deemed appropriate to carry out the purpose of this chapter by the
License Official. Applicants may be required to submit copies of portions of
state and federal income tax returns reflecting gross receipts and gross
revenue figures.
   (C)   The applicant shall certify under oath that the information given in
the application is true, that the gross income is accurately reported or
estimated for a new business without any unauthorized deductions, and that all
assessments, personal property taxes on business property and other monies due
and payable to the municipality have been paid.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.06 DEDUCTIONS, EXEMPTIONS, AND CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   No deductions from gross income shall be made except income earned
outside of the municipality on which a license tax is paid by the business to
some other municipality or a county and fully reported to the municipality,
taxes collected for a governmental entity, or income which cannot be included
for computation of the tax pursuant to state or federal law. The applicant
shall have the burden to establish the right to exempt income by satisfactory
records and proof.
   (B)   No person shall be exempt from the requirements of the chapter by
reason of the lack of an established place of business within the municipality
unless exempted by state or federal law. The License Official shall determine
the appropriate classification for each business in accordance with the latest
issue of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) for the
United States published by the Office of Management and Budget. No person shall
be exempt from this chapter by reason of the payment of
any other tax unless exempted by state law, and no person shall be relieved of
liability for payment of any other tax or fee by reason of application of this
chapter.
   (C)   A charitable organization shall be exempt from the business license
tax on its gross income unless it is deemed a business subject to a business
license tax on all or part of its gross income as provided in this section. A
charitable organization or any for-profit affiliate of a charitable
organization that reports income from for-profit activities or unrelated
business income for federal income tax purposes to the Internal Revenue Service
shall be deemed a business subject to a business license tax on the part of its
gross income from such for-profit activities or unrelated business income.
   (D)   A charitable organization shall be deemed a business subject to a
business license tax on its total gross income if:
      (1)   Any net proceeds of operation, after necessary expenses of
operation, inure to the benefit of any individual or any entity that is not
itself a charitable organization as defined in this chapter; or
      (2)   Any net proceeds of operation, after necessary expenses of
operation, are used for a purpose other than a charitable purpose as defined in
this chapter. Excess benefits or compensation in any form beyond fair market
value to a sponsor, organizer, officer, director, trustee or person with
ultimate control of the organization shall not be deemed a necessary expense of
operation.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.07 FALSE APPLICATION UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to the provisions of this
chapter to make a false application for a business license, or to give, file,
or direct the giving or filing of any false information with respect to the
license or tax required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.08 DISPLAY AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   All persons shall display the license issued to them on the original
form provided by the License Official in a conspicuous place in the business
establishment at the address shown on the license. A transient or non-resident
shall carry the license upon his or her person or in a vehicle used in the
business readily available for inspection by any authorized agent of the
municipality.
   (B)   A change of address must be reported to the License Official within
ten (10) days after removal of the business to a new location and the license
will be valid at the new address upon written notification by the License
Official and compliance with zoning and building codes. Failure to obtain the
approval of the License Official for a change of address shall invalidate the
license and subject the licensee to prosecution for doing business without a
license. A business license shall not be transferable, and a transfer of
controlling interest shall be considered a termination of the old business and
the establishment of a new business, requiring a new business license based on
old business income.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   The License Official shall administer the provisions of this chapter,
collect license taxes, issue licenses, make or initiate investigations and
audits to insure compliance, initiate denial or suspension and revocation
procedures, report violations to the municipal attorney, assist in prosecution
of violators, produce forms, make reasonable regulations relating to the
administration of this chapter, and perform such other duties as may be duly
assigned.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.10 INSPECTION AND AUDITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the
License Official or other authorized agent of the municipality is empowered to
enter upon the premises of any person subject to this
chapter to make inspections and examine and audit books and records. It shall
be unlawful for any such person to fail or refuse to make available the
necessary books and records. In the event an audit or inspection reveals that
the licensee has filed false information, the costs of the audit shall be added
to the correct license tax and late penalties in addition to other penalties
provided herein. Each day of failure to pay the proper amount of license tax
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The License Official shall have the authority to make inspections and
conduct audits of businesses within the municipality to ensure compliance with
the chapter. Financial information obtained by inspections and audits shall not
be deemed public records, and the License Official shall not release the amount
of license taxes paid or the reported gross income of any person by name
without written permission of the licensee, except as authorized by this
chapter, state or federal law, or proper judicial order. Statistics compiled by
classifications are public records.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.11 ASSESSMENTS; PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST; APPEAL.
   (A)   If a person fails to obtain a business license or to furnish the
information required by this chapter or the License Official, the License
Official shall examine such records of the business or any other available
records as may be appropriate, and conduct such investigations and statistical
surveys as the License Official may deem appropriate to assess a license tax
and penalties as provided herein.
   (B)   A notice of assessment shall be served by certified mail or personal
service. An application for adjustment of the assessment may be made to the
License Official within five (5) days after the notice is mailed or personally
served or the assessment will become final. The License Official shall
establish a uniform procedure for hearing an application for adjustment of
assessment and issuing a notice of final assessment.
   (C)   A final assessment may be appealed to the Council only by payment in
full of the assessment under protest within five (5) days and the filing of
written notice of appeal within ten (10) days after payment pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter relating to appeals to Council.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.12 DELINQUENT LICENSE TAXES; PARTIAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   For non-payment of all or any part of the correct license tax, the
License Official shall levy and collect a late penalty of ten percent (10%) of
the unpaid tax for each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid.
Penalties shall not be waived. If any license tax remains unpaid for 60 days
after its due date, the License Official shall report it to the municipal
attorney for appropriate legal action.
   (B)   Partial payment may be accepted by the License Official to toll
imposition of penalties on the portion paid; provided, however, no business
license shall be issued or renewed until the full amount of the tax due, with
penalties, has been paid.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.13 NOTICES.
   The License Official may, but shall not be required to, mail written notices
that license taxes are due. If notices are not mailed, there may be published a
notice of the due date in a news outlet of general circulation within the
municipality three (3) times prior to the due date in each year. Failure to
receive notice shall not constitute a defense to prosecution for failure to pay
the tax due or grounds for waiver of penalties.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.14 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The License Official shall deny a license to an applicant when the
License Official determines:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains a misrepresentation,
false or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a material fact;
      (2)   The activity for which a license is sought is unlawful or
constitutes a public nuisance per se or per accidens;
      (3)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business has been convicted within the previous ten (10) years of an
offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (4)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related to the
business or to a similar business in the municipality or in another
jurisdiction;
      (5)   The applicant, licensee or prior licensee or the person in control
of the business is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any tax or
fee; or
      (6)   The license for the business or for a similar business of the
licensee in the municipality or another jurisdiction has been denied, suspended
or revoked in the previous license year.
   (B)   A decision of the License Official shall be subject to appeal to
Council as herein provided. Denial shall be written with reasons stated.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.15 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   When the License Official determines any of the following, the License
Official shall give written notice to the licensee or the person in control of
the business within the municipality by personal service or certified mail that
the license is suspended pending a hearing before Council for the purpose of
determining whether the license should be revoked:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through a fraud,
misrepresentation, a false or misleading statement, evasion or suppression of a
material fact in the license application; or
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted, within the previous ten (10) years,
of an offense under a law or ordinance regulating business, a crime involving
dishonest conduct or moral turpitude related to a business or a subject of a
business, or an unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods;
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business; or
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in the payment to the municipality of any
tax or fee.
   (B)   The notice shall state the time and place at which the hearing is to
be held, which shall be at a regular or special Council meeting within 30 days
from the date of service of the notice, unless continued by agreement. The
notice shall contain a brief statement of the reasons for suspension and
proposed revocation and a copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.16 APPEALS TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision, final assessment, proposed
revocation, suspension, or a denial of a business license by the License
Official may appeal the decision to the Council by written request stating the
reasons therefore filed with the License Official within ten (10) days after
service by mail or personal service of the notice of decision, final
assessment, proposed revocation, suspension or denial.
   (B)   An appeal or a hearing on proposed revocation shall be held by the
Council within 30 days after receipt of a request for appeal or service of
notice of suspension at a regular or special meeting of which the applicant or
licensee has been given written notice unless continued by agreement. At the
hearing, all parties shall have the right to be represented by counsel, to
present testimony and evidence and to cross-examine witnesses. The proceedings
shall be recorded and transcribed at the expense of the party so requesting.
The rules of evidence and procedure prescribed by Council shall govern the
hearing. Council shall, by majority vote of members present, render a written
decision based on findings of fact and application of the standards herein
which shall be served upon all parties or their representatives and shall be
the final decision of the municipality.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.17 CONSENT, FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED FOR USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
municipality any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for utilities,
communications, cablevision or other purposes without a consent agreement or
franchise agreement issued by the Council by ordinance that prescribes the
terms, fees and conditions for use.
   (B)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be consistent with limits set by state law.
Existing franchise agreements shall continue in effect until expiration dates
in the agreements. Franchise and consent fees shall not be in lieu of or be
credited against business license taxes unless specifically provided by the
franchise or consent agreement.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.18 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Except in accordance with proper judicial order or as otherwise provided by
law, it shall be unlawful for any official or employee to divulge or make known
in any manner the amount of income or any particulars set forth or disclosed in
any report or return required under this chapter. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit the publication of statistics so classified as to
prevent the identification of particular reports or returns. Any license data
may be shared with other public officials or employees in the performance of
their duties, whether or not those duties relate to enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.19 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an offense and shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days or both upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be
considered a separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the
offender of liability for delinquent taxes, penalties and costs provided for
herein.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
§ 110.20 CLASSIFICATION AND RATES.
   (A)   The classifications of businesses included in each rate class are
listed with United States North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)
codes, by sector, sub-sector, group or industry. The business license class
schedule (Appendix B to Ordinance 2019-04) is a tool for classification and not
a limitation on businesses subject to a license tax. The business
classification pursuant to the most recent version of the business license
class schedule adopted by the Council most specifically identifying the subject
business shall be applied to the business. The License Official shall have the
authority to make the determination of the business classification most
specifically applicable to a subject business.
   (B)   The license tax for each class of businesses subject to this chapter
shall be computed in accordance with the current business license rate
schedule, designated as Appendix A to Ordinance 2019-04, which may be amended
from time to time by the Council. A copy of the class schedule and rate
schedule shall be filed in the office of the Municipal Clerk.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-18-2019)
CHAPTER 111:
FRANCHISES
Section
Placing Lines in Streets
   
111.01   Prohibition
   
111.02   Fee
   
111.03   Business license tax
Garbage Franchise
   
111.15   Findings
   
111.16   Authority; short title
   
111.17   Scope
   
111.18   Definitions
   
111.19   Accumulation and storage
   
111.20   Collection, transportation and disposal of waste in approved manner
   
111.21   Staff
   
111.22   Franchise required for residential solid waste collection service
   
111.23   Exclusive right to provide collection service
   
111.24   Awarding of franchise; term of franchise
   
111.25   Minimum vehicle and equipment requirements
   
111.26   Franchise agreement, license fee and bond required of collectors
   
111.27   Collector’s minimum service requirements
   
111.28   Collector’s fees
   
111.29   Rights and requirements of customers
   
111.30   Service complaints
   
111.31   Violations and revocation of franchise
 
   
111.99   Penalty
PLACING LINES IN STREETS
§ 111.01 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, install, maintain or
operate in, on, above or under any street or public place under control of the
Town of South Congaree any line, pipe, cable, pole, structure or facility for
utilities, communications, cablevision or other purposes without the consent
agreement or franchise agreement issued by the Town Council by ordinance which
prescribes the term, fees and conditions for use.
   (B)   The term PERSON shall include, but not be limited to, any individual,
business, public or private corporation, governmental entity, special purpose
district, commission or other entity of any type.
(1985 Code, Ch. 10, Art. I) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee for use of streets or public places authorized by a
consent agreement or franchise agreement shall be set by the ordinance
approving the agreement and shall be based on gross revenue derived from
activities in the Town of South Congaree, the length of lines installed in
streets and public places, or other formula deemed appropriate by Town Council.
   (B)   No consent fee or franchise fee shall be construed to be in lieu of a
business license tax based on gross revenue unless specifically provided by
ordinance.
   (C)   Credit for business license taxes paid may be applied to fees set by
ordinance granting consent or a franchise when specifically authorized by
ordinance.
(1985 Code, Ch. 10, Art. I)
§ 111.03 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX.
   Establishments providing local or long distance telephone communications as
described in Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) 481 and North American
Industry Classification System (NAICS) 5133, including voice and date
communications; radiotelephone services; cellular telephone services; paging
and beeper services; leasing lines; fiber optic cables, microwave or satellite
facilities; selling access and reselling use of facilities or methods to others
shall pay an annual business license tax of three percent (3%) of gross
receipts from all communications activities conducted in the municipality and
for communications services billed to customers located in the municipality on
which a business license tax has not been paid to another municipality. The tax
shall be payable on or before December 31 in each year without penalty.
Declining rates shall not apply. The penalty for delinquent payments shall be
five percent (5%) of the tax due each month, or portion thereof, after the due
date until paid.
(1985 Code, Ch. 10, Art. I)
GARBAGE FRANCHISE
§ 111.15 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that facilities for the disposal of solid waste
are being made available in rural areas of Lexington County through the green
box system.
   (B)   The Town Council finds that it should make franchised solid waste
collection service available to single-family and duplex residential households
to be able to control sanitation conditions of the area.
(1985 Code, § 10-40)
§ 111.16 AUTHORITY; SHORT TITLE.
   The provisions of this subchapter enacted to protect the public health,
welfare and safety of the citizens of South Congaree are adopted pursuant to
the authority granted under S.C. Code §§ 5-31-50 and 5-7-30, and may be
referred to as the Garbage Franchise Subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 10-41)
§ 111.17 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply within the incorporated areas
of the town. Those provisions of this subchapter relating specifically to
franchised solid waste collection service shall apply only to single-family and
duplex residential service and the provisions shall not be deemed to regulate
waste collection services provided to apartment complexes or commercial or
industrial customers.
(1985 Code, § 10-42)
§ 111.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. Any person, firm or corporation that holds a valid franchise
granted by the Town Council to provide residential solid waste collection
service within a franchise area pursuant to this subchapter.
   CUSTOMER. Any single family or duplex residential household within a
franchise area that subscribes to and pays for the collector's solid waste
collection service.
   HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable waste and non-
putrescible waste such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, wood, glass, crockery or
litter of any other kind normally generated in the maintenance of a residential
household.
   SOLID WASTE. Household garbage and yard rubbish as defined herein.
   STAFF. Those employees within the Town of South Congaree designed by the
Town Council to be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter.
   TOWN. The Town of South Congaree.
   YARD RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste such as leaves, pine straw, pine
cones and small shrubbery or tree trimmings or other litter normally associated
with the maintenance of residential yards and grounds.
(1985 Code, § 10-43)
§ 111.19 ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Within the incorporated areas of the Town of South Congaree, no owner,
occupant, tenant or lessee of any public or private property shall permit
thereon the accumulation of any household garbage except in the plastic bags or
sanitary covered cans or other containers as may be approved by the staff.
   (B)   Within the incorporated areas of South Congaree, no person shall
permit the accumulation of any type of waste materials.
(1985 Code, § 10-44) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE IN APPROVED MANNER.
   Within the incorporated areas of South Congaree no person, firm or
corporation shall collect, transport, or dispose of household garbage, waste
materials, trash, rubbish, refuse or litter in any manner that is not approved
by the staff.
(1985 Code, § 10-45) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 STAFF.
   The Town Council shall designate one (1) or more of the members of Council
as Director of Public Works to staff and administrate and to be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this subchapter under the direction of
the policies set forth by the majority of the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 10-46)
§ 111.22 FRANCHISE REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of providing
solid waste collection and disposal service to single-family and duplex
residential households within the incorporated area of the town without a valid
franchise agreement granted by the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 10-47) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 EXCLUSIVE RIGHT TO PROVIDE COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The holder of a franchise shall have the exclusive right to collect and
dispose of solid waste from single-family and duplex residential households
located within the franchise area which subscribe to the service.
(1985 Code, § 10-61) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 AWARDING OF FRANCHISE; TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   Before the Town Council awards the franchise, the staff shall advertise
seeking applicants therefor by publishing a notice at least once in a newspaper
of general circulation in Lexington County. Applications for a franchise must
be made to the staff in writing within 15 days after the first publication of
the notice. The staff shall investigate and evaluate the applications and make
a recommendation to the Town Council. The Town Council may then award the
franchise to the person, firm or corporation which it deems most capable of
rendering reliable residential solid waste collection service to the area. In
the event the Town Council determines that none of the applicants are capable
of rendering reliable service to the area, the Town Council shall have the
right to award and grant the franchise to any other person, firm or corporation
which it deems reliable and capable to providing service to the area. All
franchises shall be granted for a term of one (1) year.
(1985 Code, § 10-62)
§ 111.25 MINIMUM VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall be granted a franchise unless
the requirements of this subchapter are met.
   (B)   A collector's franchise may be terminated by the Town Council upon
failure to maintain these minimum requirements at all times during the
franchise term.
      (1)   All vehicles to be used in the collection and transportation of
solid waste must be in a sanitary condition and must be constructed so as to
prevent leakage or blowing of refuse in transit.
      (2)   The body of all vehicles used in the collection and transportation
of solid waste must be wholly enclosed or shall at all times in transit be
covered in a method approved by the staff which will prevent blowing and
spillage.
      (3)   All vehicles used in the collection and transportation of solid
waste shall carry a legend on the sidewalls of the hauling body or doors which
shall include the name of the collector, his or her address and telephone
number.
      (4)   All vehicles to be used in the collection and transportation of
solid waste must carry liability insurance in the minimum amount of $100,000
for injury or death of any one (1) person; $3,000,000 for each accident or
occurrence for bodily injury; and $50,000 for each accident or occurrence for
property damage.
      (5)   All vehicles and equipment to be used in the collection and
transportation of solid waste must also meet any and all minimum requirements
as may from time to time be imposed by any government agency having legal
authority in regard thereto.
(1985 Code, § 10-63) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT, LICENSE FEE AND BOND REQUIRED OF COLLECTORS.
   Upon award by the Town Council, a franchise shall not become effective until
the collector has completed the following:
   (A)   Executed a written franchise agreement with the Town of South Congaree
the form, as the staff may require which shall be consistent with the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Paid the initial installment of a franchise license fee which shall be
an amount set by Council per collection customer per month. The license fee
shall be due and payable in advance during the full term of the franchise. A
ten percent (10%) penalty is levied on fees not paid by the tenth of each
month. Failure to pay the franchise license fee by the thirtieth of the month
shall result in termination of the franchise by the Town Council.
   (C)   Delivered to the staff a valid performance bond with surety acceptable
to the staff guaranteeing to the Town of South Congaree the faithful
performance by the collector of its obligations under this subchapter and the
franchise agreement. The amount of the bond shall be an amount equal the
estimated cost, as determined by the staff, of what it would cost the town to
provide solid waste collection service to the franchise area for 60 days. The
staff may accept a cash bond in lieu of a surety bond. Failure to maintain a
sufficient bond in full force and effect at all times during the term of the
franchise shall result in termination of the franchise by the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 10-64) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 COLLECTOR’S MINIMUM SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each collector must comply with the following minimum service
requirements.
   (B)   Failure to comply with these requirements may result in termination of
the franchise by the Town Council.
      (1)   Within the franchise area the collector shall provide dependable
solid waste collection service to all single-family and duplex residential
households which elect to subscribe to and pay for the service.
      (2)   Collection and pick-up service shall be provided to customers on a
regular schedule approved by the staff which shall provide for the collection
of household garbage on at least two (2) days per week and yard rubbish at
least one (1) day per week.
      (3)   Collection and pick-up service during holiday periods shall be
provided on a schedule established by the staff which will provide for fewer
daily collections during recognized holiday periods. This schedule shall be
coordinated with the holiday schedule of the county landfills so that there is
no interruption in the disposal of solid waste.
      (4)    Each collector shall at all times conduct his or her solid waste
collection business so as to conform with any and all regulations, rules and
requirements as may be imposed from time to time by any governmental agency
having legal authority in regard thereto.
      (5)   Each collector shall furnish a collection schedule to each of its
customers.
      (6)   Each collector shall furnish to the staff a list of all his or her
customers and shall correct and update the list every three (3) months. The
town reserves the right to audit the billing list.
      (7)   Each collector shall furnish to the staff his or her collection
route schedule which shall not be changed or adjusted without prior approval of
the staff and notification thereof to his or her customers.
      (8)   Each collector shall dispose of solid waste only at disposal sites
approved by the staff.
      (9)   It is the responsibility of the collector to actively solicit
customers. However, no undue coercion or influence shall be used to persuade
residents to subscribe to the collector's service.
(1985 Code, § 10-65) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 COLLECTOR’S FEES.
   (A)   Each collector may charge his or her customers a fee for his or her
solid waste collection service not to exceed the amount as shall from time to
time be set by the Town Council. A collector may charge less than the maximum
fee established herein.
   (B)   Each collector shall maintain a uniform billing system and the
collector's name, address and telephone number must appear on all statements,
bill, receipts and correspondence issued in the conduct of his or her solid
waste collection business.
   (C)   Request for a change of the maximum fees established herein may be
made in writing to the Town Council by the collector.
   (D)   The staff shall study and evaluate any request and make a
recommendation thereon to the Town Council. The collector shall have the right
to be heard by the Town Council prior to Council action on any request.
(1985 Code, § 10-66) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 RIGHTS AND REQUIREMENTS OF CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Any single-family or duplex residential household within a franchise
area shall have the right and option to subscribe to the collector's solid
waste collection service and to receive the service upon payment to the
collector of the fee as allowed in §
111.28 hereof.
   (B)   Each customer shall receive backyard pick-up service of household
garbage. Yard rubbish shall be picked up at curbside only.
   (C)   All customers must deposit all household garbage and yard rubbish only
in plastic bags or covered cans not to exceed 30 gallons in capacity or in
other containers as may be approved by the staff. Customers must provide the
plastic bags or covered cans or other containers.
   (D)   Each customer receiving backyard pick-up of household garbage must
place his or her plastic bags or covered cans or other approved containers of
household garbage at a location on his or her property as designated by the
customer which must be easily accessible to the collector.
   (E)   All customers shall place their plastic bags or covered cans or other
approved containers of yard rubbish on their property next to the curb, but out
of the traveling surface of the roadway.
   (F)   The solid waste collection service provided by a collector shall
consist of scheduled pick-up of household garbage and yard rubbish deposited in
plastic bags or covered cans or other approved containers. A customer shall not
be entitled to receive pick-up service for discarded household furnishings,
appliances, building materials, large tree limbs, other large items or
excessive amounts of yard rubbish unless the customer and the collector enter
into a separate agreement for the pick-up of items for a fee which shall be in
addition to the allowable fee which the collector may charge under §
111.28 hereof. The amount of the additional fee shall be subject to agreement
by and between the parties, and the staff shall have no authority to set or
determine the amount of any additional fee.
   (G)   A collector shall not be required to provide solid waste collection
service to any customer who fails to pay for his or her service or fails to
comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 10-67) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 SERVICE COMPLAINTS.
   The staff shall receive any complaints from citizens regarding a collector's
solid waste collection service that are submitted in writing. The staff shall
maintain a register for the collector and every complaint received will be
noted on the applicable collector's register. The register will reflect
identification of the complainant, his or her address, the nature of the
complaint and the action taken thereon.
    Upon receipt of the complaint the staff shall immediately notify the
collector and if the staff finds the complaint to be justified the collector
shall be required to immediately take appropriate corrective action in regard
thereto. The collector shall report to the staff the corrective action taken
within one (1) working day thereafter.
(1985 Code, § 10-68)
§ 111.31 VIOLATIONS AND REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchise of any collector who fails to comply with any provisions
of this subchapter may be revoked and terminated by the Town Council. In the
event the staff should determine that a collector is failing to comply with any
provisions of this subchapter the staff shall notify the collector in writing
of the violation, and the collector shall have ten (10) days from the date of
the notice to correct the violation.
   (B)   If any collector shall fail to correct any violation within ten (10)
days after notification thereof by the staff, or if the staff should determine
that a collector has been repeatedly violating any provisions of this
subchapter, then the staff may make a written recommendation to the Town
Council that the franchise be revoked and terminated. Any recommendation shall
fully set forth the reasons for the recommendation and the staff shall deliver
a copy of the recommendation to the collector.
   (C)   Upon its receipt of the recommendation, the Town Council shall
schedule a hearing to consider the staff recommendation and shall give written
notice of the time and place of the hearing to the collector at least ten (10)
days prior to the time of the hearing. The collector shall have the right to
appear and be represented at the hearing.
   (D)   The Town Council shall conduct the hearing and if it finds that the
collector is in violation of any provisions of this subchapter or that the
collector has been repeatedly violating the provisions of this subchapter, the
Town Council may by resolution revoke and terminate the franchise effective
immediately.
   (E)   No assent, either expressed or implied, by the staff or the Town
Council to any violation of this subchapter shall constitute a waiver of any
succeeding violation of this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 10-69) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Garbage franchise.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this subchapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not
exceeding the sum of $200 dollars or be imprisoned for 30 days. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to the above penalty, the Town Council may apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction to obtain injunctive relief restraining any
person, firm or corporation from any act prohibited by the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 10-70)
CHAPTER 112:
WRECKER SERVICE
Section
   
112.01   Financial interest
   
112.02   Designation of wrecker service
   
112.03   Storage area
   
112.04   Safety equipment
   
112.05   Scene to be cleaned
   
112.06   Availability
   
112.07   No recommendation by police officer
   
112.08   Response of wrecker services
   
112.09   Rotation list
   
112.10   Heavy duty wrecker
   
112.11   Equipment
   
112.12   Reasonable charges
   
112.13   Conduct
   
112.14   Solicitation laws
   
112.15   Additional assistance
   
112.16   Unavailability
   
112.17   Liability insurance/wrecker
   
112.18   Personal property
   
112.19   Complaints
   
112.20   Failure to comply with regulations
§ 112.01 FINANCIAL INTEREST.
   No police officer or official of the town shall hold any financial interest
or any form of ownership interest in any wrecker service.
(1985 Code, 26-100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 DESIGNATION OF WRECKER SERVICE.
   (A)   Unless the owner or driver of a vehicle is incapacitated or
unavailable, the owner or driver of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall have
the right to the wrecker service of his or her choice.
   (B)   Before calling any wrecker service to tow a wrecked or disabled
vehicle, the investigating officer on the scene shall, if practical, determine
the owner's or driver's preference of wrecker services and the wrecker service
designated by the owner or driver shall be called.
(1985 Code, 26-101)
§ 112.03 STORAGE AREA.
   (A)   The wrecker service shall maintain a safe storage area for all
vehicles towed.
   (B)   This may be a locked building or a secured fenced-in area where the
stored vehicles and other property shall not be accessible to the public.
(1985 Code, 26-102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All wreckers shall be equipped with legally authorized lighting and
other safety equipment to protect the motoring public.
   (B)   The equipment shall be maintained in good working order.
(1985 Code, 26-103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 SCENE TO BE CLEANED.
   Equipment such as brooms, shovels and the like must be carried on all
wreckers whereby to remove glass and other debris from the highway. The highway
shall be cleaned by the wrecker service prior to leaving the scene of any
accident.
(1985 Code, 26-104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 AVAILABILITY.
   Wrecker services shall be available to South Congaree and to the public on a
24-hour basis. They must be willing to accept collect calls from South
Congaree.
(1985 Code, 26-105)
§ 112.07 NO RECOMMENDATION BY POLICE OFFICER.
   In no event shall any police officer recommend any wrecker service to the
owner of a wrecked or disabled vehicle nor shall any officer ever recommend the
services of a particular wrecker service in the performance of his or her
duties.
(1985 Code, 26-106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 RESPONSE OF WRECKER SERVICES.
   Wreckers shall respond only upon the request of the proper police authority.
Response under any other condition may result in removal from the wrecker list.
(1985 Code, 26-107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 ROTATION LIST.
   The wrecker rotation lists shall be administered fairly and in a manner
designed to insure that all wrecker services on the list have an equal
opportunity to the towing business arising from the rotation list. Wrecker
services shall be called from the rotation lists in the order in which they
appear on the lists. If a particular wrecker service is unavailable when
called, it shall be passed over and the next wrecker service on the list shall
be called to the scene.
(1985 Code, 26-108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.10 HEAVY DUTY WRECKER.
   (A)   Separate rotation lists shall be maintained for heavy duty wreckers.
   (B)   Where the services of a heavy duty wrecker are needed and where the
owner or driver has no preference as to which wrecker service he or she
desires, a heavy duty wrecker shall be called from the heavy duty wrecker
rotation list.
(1985 Code, 26-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 EQUIPMENT.
   The wrecker service must have a wrecker of sufficient size and strength to
handle the job. South Congaree shall have the right not to call a wrecker
service which in its opinion fails to meet this qualification. Under these
conditions, the wrecker service not called shall remain on the top of the
rotation list.
(1985 Code, 26-110)
§ 112.12 REASONABLE CHARGES.
   Charges for work performed must be reasonable.
(1985 Code, 26-111) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.13 CONDUCT.
   Wrecker operators must conduct themselves in a proper manner at all accident
scenes and in a proper manner when dealing with the public.
(1985 Code, 26-112) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.14 SOLICITATION LAWS.
   Wrecker services and operators shall be familiar with and shall comply with
the laws regarding solicitation from the highway.
(1985 Code, 26-113) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15 ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE.
   A wrecker service may secure assistance from another wrecker service when
necessary to do the job. Only one (1) bill is to be submitted to the owner or
operator for the work performed.
(1985 Code, 26-114) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 UNAVAILABILITY.
   When a wrecker service or wrecker driver is unable to answer a call, the
town shall be promptly notified to that fact and the reason for the
unavailability.
(1985 Code, 26-115)
§ 112.17 LIABILITY INSURANCE/WRECKER.
   Any wrecker service on the rotation lists shall carry liability insurance on
its wreckers and its premises in an amount no less than $300,000.
(1985 Code, 26-116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.18 PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Each wrecker service shall be responsible for securing personal property in
a vehicle at an accident scene as best it can and the wrecker service shall be
responsible for reasonable attempting to preserve personal property in a
vehicle which is about to be towed from an accident scene. In no event,
however, shall a wrecker service be responsible for personal items which do not
come into the possession of the wrecker service.
(1985 Code, 26-117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.19 COMPLAINTS.
   Any complaints from wrecker services regarding any incident involving South
Congaree or its operation of the wrecker lists must be received within 30 days
of the alleged incident.
(1985 Code, 26-118)
§ 112.20 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   Failure of any wrecker service to comply with the regulations as stated may
result in their removal from the wrecker list by the Police Commissioner.
(1985 Code, 26-119) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: SELF STORAGE
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Permitting
   
113.03   Materials
   
113.04   Operational
   
113.05   Standards
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF STORAGE WAREHOUSE BUSINESS. A building or buildings designed and used
for renting or leasing individual storage spaces accessed by customers from
individual inside or outside doors or garage bays to which customers thereof
have access for storing or removing their personal property. Individual self-
storage spaces shall not be used as a residence or for illegal purposes. All
storage shall be indoors.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 113.02 PERMITTING.
   Mini warehouses/self-service storage facilities may be permitted in the C-
l Zoning District subject to the following limitations conditions and
restrictions:
   (A)   A plan of development shall be submitted to the Director of Planning
and Development Services indicating the location of buildings, lot area, number
of storage units, type and size of signs, height of buildings, parking layout
with points of ingress and egress, and location and type of visual screening
and landscaping being proposed;
   (B)   The development shall be exclusively limited to storage and those
activities necessary for the operation safety and maintenance of the
development, in addition to those uses authorized in the applicable districts;
   (C)   Mini warehouses/self-service storage facilities may include one (1)
building or a group of buildings with or without climate-controlled storage and
either exterior access to individual units or access via interior corridors;
   (D)   Screening shall be provided adequate to protect adjacent properties in
a more restrictive district (e.g. all residential districts) from the
environmental impacts of the mini warehouses, such as visual blight, parking or
roadway illumination, headlights, noise, blowing papers, dust, and service
areas.
   (E)   No advertising signs will be permitted on the property other than
identifying signage of the mini warehouses facility itself with a sign face not
to exceed four (4) feet high by eight (8) feet in length, with the top of the
sign no higher than six (6) feet above grade and set back from the right-of-way
by at least three (3) feet;
   (F)   All building elevations shall be of finished quality;
   (G)   A public hearing shall be required prior to any new self storage
facility permits being issued;
   (H)   Self storage unit openings shall not face the public road frontage;
   (I)   Security lighting shall be provided according to the lighting
ordinance. It shall be shielded to prevent spillage on to adjacent properties
and shall not shine into public roadways. Such lighting shall be dimmed to
minimal levels for security purposes when the facility is closed;
   (J)   All driveways, parking, loading, and vehicle circulation areas shall
be surfaced with concrete, asphalt, asphaltic concrete, crushed rock or other
approved rock other than gravel. All driveways within the facility shall
provide a hard surface with a minimum width of 25 feet.
   (K)   Facilities must maintain landscape buffer yards of ten (10) feet
adjacent to any public right-of-way and adjacent to other property lines unless
greater setbacks are required. A total of 35% of all buffers shall be
landscaped. A buffer of a minimum width of ten (10) feet comprised of at least
ten (10) feet in height for deciduous trees and twelve (12) feet in height for
evergreen trees.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 113.03 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Façade materials shall be compatible with the residences to the rear
or sides. Brick, masonry or stucco cladding is encouraged. Metal is prohibited
as a façade cladding, except as a minor accent material.
   (B)   All façades of the building shall be designed with a similar level of
detailing and the same materials.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 113.04 OPERATIONAL.
   (A)   The owner shall keep record of all unit rentals including the name and
contact information of the tenant and dates of arrival and departure.
   (B)   The units shall be kept in an orderly fashion and in good repair. The
doors shall be kept closed to prevent the units/building from becoming shelter
for animals or vermin.
   (C)   The grounds are to be kept free of rubbish and flammable materials and
the vegetation properly trimmed.
   (D)   The units shall not be used for the storage of hazardous, flammable or
explosive materials, including fireworks of all types.
   (E)   The units shall not be used for human habitation.
   (F)   Refuse and recycling storage containers are to be provided. If such
areas are provided outdoors, they shall only be permitted in the front or side
yards and shall meet the same setbacks as that required for buildings. Such
areas shall be shielded on all sides by wood, simulated wood, steel fencing, or
walls comprised of the same exterior material and color of that of the
principal building and sufficient in height to screen all such storage
containers.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 113.05 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (B)   If any other provisions of any other chapter of this code is clearly
in conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Other provisions determined by the Planning Commission, Architectural
Review Board or the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a detrimental effect on the
surrounding neighborhood and businesses.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Compliance
   
115.03   Required records
   
115.04   Electronic pawn tracking system
   
115.05   Reports of articles purchased or received
   
115.06   Inspection of records
   
115.07   Fingerprints and other information to be obtained
   
115.08   Reserved
   
115.09   Reserved
   
115.10   License required
   
115.11   Identification sign
   
115.12   Suspension or revocation
   
115.13   Failure to comply
   
115.14   Location restrictions
   
115.15   Standards
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MONTH. That period of time from one date in a calendar month to the
corresponding date in the following calendar month; but if there is no
corresponding date, then the last day of the following month; and when
computations are made for a fraction of a month, a day is one-thirtieth (1/30)
of a month.
   PAWN TRANSACTION. The pledging with a pawnbroker under this chapter of a
single item of goods or tangible personal property as security for a loan of
money. Items that are usually sold as a set are considered a single item and
must be included in the same transaction, and a pledged item together with
items that are accessories to the pledged item are considered a single item and
must be included in the same transaction. A separate pawn transaction retains
its separate character when it is renewed unless the parties agree otherwise.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person engaged in the business of lending money on the
security of pledged goods or engaged in the business of purchasing tangible
personal property on the condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by
the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time.
   PAWNSHOP. The location at which or premises in which a pawnbroker regularly
conducts business.
   PLEDGED GOODS. Tangible personal property (other than choses in action,
titles, securities, or printed evidences of indebtedness) which is deposited
with or otherwise actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in the
course of his or her business in connection with a pawn transaction.
   REGULATED PROPERTY. Property of a type that has been determined by local
enforcement to be property that is frequently the subject of theft or
associated with criminal activity, including new and used items.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.02 COMPLIANCE.
   All pawnbrokers shall comply with all applicable ordinances of the Town of
South Congaree and all applicable state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.03 REQUIRED RECORDS.
   Pawnbrokers shall maintain a legible record of all purchase transactions of
regulated property. The records shall include an account and description of the
goods; articles or things pawned, pledged or purchased; a description
identifying the object and listing the maker, serial number, brand, monogram or
letters of any kind on the article; the amount of money loaned thereon; the
time of the pledging of the items; the charges or rates of interest to be paid
on the loan; and the name and residence of the person pawning, pledging, or
selling the article or articles. The name and residence of the person pawning,
pledging or selling the article or articles shall be obtained from at least two
(2) identification cards, one (1) of which must contain a photograph of the
person pawning, pledging or selling. Pawnbrokers shall maintain or cause to be
maintained the information required.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.04 ELECTRONIC PAWN TRACKING SYSTEM.
   (A)   As a condition precedent to obtaining or renewing a Town of South
Congaree business license to operate a pawnbroker business or pawn shop, all
pawnbrokers shall have in place and are required to utilize the electronic pawn
tracking and data submission system designated by local enforcement or a system
compatible and capable of interfacing with the designated system and approved
by the Town of South Congaree Chief of Police or his or her designated agent.
   (B)   Pawnbrokers seeking approval for use of an alternative electronic pawn
tracking and data submission system must file a complete and detailed written
description of the system proposed to be utilized, including user instructions,
an enumeration of all features that do not meet the requirements of the
regulations and a full explanation as to how the equivalent information is
maintained with the proposed system. User instructions must provide a clear and
concise section of procedures which must be followed to operate the system as
contemplated by this chapter.
   (C)   Each pawnbroker shall be responsible for any and all fees and costs
associated with the installation, implementation, maintenance and utilization
of the designated and/or approved electronic system.
   (D)   After a business license has been issued or renewed, pawnbrokers shall
be given 30 days after receiving notice to comply with any modifications or
changes to the electronic pawn tracking and data.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.05 REPORTS OF ARTICLES PURCHASED OR RECEIVED.
   Records kept by pawnbrokers pursuant to this chapter shall be electronically
submitted on a daily basis to the Town of South Congaree Chief of Police at
such time as is required by the Town of South Congaree Chief of Police or his
or her designated agent.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.06 INSPECTION OF RECORDS.
   (A)   The records and books of every pawnbroker doing business within the
town shall, at all times, be subject to the inspection of the Chief of Police
or any other duly authorized person.
   (B)   Records kept by pawnbrokers pursuant to this chapter must, at all
reasonable times, be open to the inspection by court officials, law enforcement
officers, the Administrator of the Department of Consumer Affairs and their
designees. Any loan records identifying any individual must always be handled
in a confidential manner.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.07 FINGERPRINTS AND OTHER INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED.
   In addition to the owner’s records and information called for to obtain a
license, each pawnbroker shall obtain from each person pawning any article with
that pawnbroker the fingerprint of the right-hand index finger, unless that
finger is missing, in which event the print of the next finger in existence on
the right hand of the person pawning the article shall be obtained with a
notation as to the exact finger printed. All prints shall be made on FBI forms,
and the pawnbroker shall obtain all other information called for on the form.
Fingerprints and the information as required in this section shall be obtained
from all persons each time the persons pawn any article with a pawnbroker,
regardless of whether those persons may have previously pawned an article with
the pawnbroker and been fingerprinted.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.08 [RESERVED.]
§ 115.09 [RESERVED.]
§ 115.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do business as a pawnbroker within
the town without first obtaining a license so to do from the town.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.11 IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   Every person who shall obtain a pawnbroker’s license shall put on or over
the principal entrance to his or her shop a sign designating that he or she is
licensed and containing his or her name.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this division may be suspended or
revoked by the town for the violation by the licensee of any applicable
provision of this code, state law or town ordinance, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.13 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Failure to have the requisite electronic pawn tracking system in place, to
properly fingerprint person pawning items, to properly utilize the system, or
to submit records electronically to Town of South Congaree Chief of Police or
his or her designated agent shall result in suspension or revocation of the any
business license issued by the Town of South Congaree unless any exemption
applies or good cause is shown.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.14 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Pawn shop cannot locate within 1,000 feet of churches, homes, schools
and public parks.
   (B)   Pawn shop cannot open within 1,000 feet of other pawn shops or
alternative lending companies, such as title loan and payday lending businesses
or debt collection companies.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 115.15 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (B)   If any other provisions of any other chapter of this code is clearly
in conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Any other provisions determined by the Planning Commission,
Architectural Review Board or the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a detrimental
effect on the surrounding neighborhood and businesses.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 116: HOME OCCUPATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Requirements
   
116.03   Permitted uses
   
116.04   Exclusions
   
116.05   Approval required
   
116.06   Standards
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory activity of a non-residential nature which is
performed within a living unit by an occupant of the living unit and which is
customarily incidental to the residential use of the living unit. A home
occupation may include, but is not limited to, the handicraft manufacture of
products, the conduct of an art or profession, the offering of a service, or
the conduct of a business, subject to the provisions of §
158.086, R-l Residential District (Single Family).
(1985 Code, § 9-109) (Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999 
§ 116.02 REQUIREMENTS.
   A home occupation shall be permitted in any residential district provided
the following applies:
   (A)   The profession or trade is carried on wholly within the principal
building;
   (B)   No more than 25% of the floor area of the principal building is used
for conduct of the home occupation;
   (C)   No merchandise or articles are on display for advertising purposes,
nor are displayed in a way as to be visible from outside the dwelling;
   (D)   No merchandise or articles are stored other than inside the principal
building;
   (E)   Produces no alteration or change in the character or exterior
appearance of the premises or principal building from that of a dwelling;
   (F)   Is compatible with a quiet residential environment;
   (G)   Home occupation is conducted by no other persons than members of the
household residing on the premises;
   (H)   The occupation shall not be a nuisance or cause any undue disturbance
in the neighborhood;
   (I)   Allows for no traffic to be generated by the home occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood,
and any need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall
be met off the street and other than in a required front yard;
   (J)   Home occupation cannot be used as storage for vehicles not in use by
home occupant;
   (K)   Prior to receiving a business license, a home occupation permit shall
be completed;
   (L)   Annual renewal of the home occupation permit shall coincide with
business license renewal and shall consist of completing a home occupation
permit and undergoing review by the Zoning Official;
   (M)   No home occupation activity is being conducted in an approved
accessory building;
   (N)   Shall not involve the retail sale of merchandise manufactured off the
premises, except for products related directly to the service performed;
   (O)   No sign shall be permitted except one (1) non-illuminated nameplate
not more than two (2) square feet in area mounted flat against the wall of
principal building in which the occupation is conducted;
   (P)   No major mechanical equipment shall be installed or used for domestic
or professional purposes;
   (Q)   No home occupation or equipment used in conjunction with a home
occupation may cause unhealthy or unsightly conditions; odor; smoke; dust;
glare; traffic hazard; vibration; excessive, disturbing or offensive noise;
electrical interference; or fluctuation in voltage that is perceptible beyond
the lot line;
   (R)   No hazardous substances may be used or stored in conjunction with a
home occupation;
   (S)   Meets all applicable fire and building code requirements, as
determined by the Building Official or his or her designee, prior to the
commencement of operation and at all times thereafter;
   (T)   No activities associated with the home occupation will be allowed
outside the structure in which the home occupation is permitted;
   (U)   Customers, clients, and patients shall visit the site of a home
occupation only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.; and
   (V)   Any other reasonable development and performance standards imposed by
the Zoning Board of Appeals as a means of ensuring land use compatibility.
(1985 Code, § 9-109) (Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 116.03 PERMITTED USES.
   The following home occupations shall be permitted. Other home occupations
may be permitted by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the
aforementioned requirements: accountant, architect, artist, attorney, barber,
beautician, bookkeeper, dance instructor, dressmaker, in-home child care,
insurance agent, interior designer, manufacturer’s representative, music
teacher, notary public, photographer, presser, professional consultant,
secretarial services, tailor, tax consultant, tutor, and typing.
(1985 Code, § 9-109) (Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 116.04 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following activities shall not, in any case, qualify as home
occupations:
   (A)   Any type of repair, rental, sales or assembly of vehicles or equipment
with internal combustion engines (such as autos, motorcycles, scooters,
snowmobiles, outboard marine engines, lawn mowers, chain saws, and other small
engines), commercial appliances (household appliances not included in this
definition) or any other work related to automobiles and their parts;
   (B)   Restaurants and food service establishments;
   (C)   Dispatch centers, where employees come to the site to be dispatched to
other locations;
   (D)   Animal care or boarding facilities, including animal hospitals,
kennels, stables, and all other types of animal boarding and care facilities.
This includes breeding for profit and breeding more than one litter per year
for sale purposes;
   (E)   Medical clinics, laboratories, research centers, urgent/emergency
care, convalescent care, hospitals, facilities providing surgical and
procedural diagnostic services, inpatient care, and similar medical facilities;
   (F)   Funeral home;
   (G)   Tow trucking companies. No tow vehicles are allowed as a part of a
home occupation; and
   (H)   Other uses determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a
detrimental effect on the surrounding neighborhood.
(1985 Code, § 9-109) (Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 116.05 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No home occupation shall be permitted unless the Zoning Official certifies
that it will conform to the home occupation regulations. The Zoning Official
may fix a termination date upon a home occupation in order to affect a periodic
review thereof.
(1985 Code, § 9-109) (Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 116.06 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrict requirement shall apply.
   (B)   If any other provision of any other chapter of this codeis clearly in
conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Any other provisions determined by the Planning Commission,
Architectural Review Board or the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a detrimental
effect on the surrounding neighborhood and businesses.
(Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-21-2020)
CHAPTER 118: LIQUOR STORE
Section
   
118.01   General requirements
   
118.02   Standards
§ 118.01 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A liquor store must be separated by at least 1,000 feet from all of
the following:
      (1)   A church or religious institution and all other church or religious
institute uses;
      (2)   Public parks and recreational facilities;
      (3)   All daycare/preschool uses;
      (4)   All school uses (elementary, middle/ junior, or senior high); and
      (5)   All public parks.
   (B)   A new liquor store cannot open within 1,000 feet of an existing liquor
store.
   (C)   A liquor store shall be located in C-1 District only.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 118.02 STANDARDS.
   (A)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (B)   If any other provision of any other chapter of this code is clearly in
conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Other provisions determined by the Planning Commission, Architectural
Review Board or the Zoning Board of Appeals to have a detrimental effect on the
surrounding neighborhood and businesses.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 1-21-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Public Order
   
130.01   Failure to obey a police command
   
130.02   Resisting arrest or interfering with employees and officers
Firearms
   
130.15   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
130.16   Permitted activity
   
130.17   Weapons prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
PUBLIC ORDER
§ 130.01 FAILURE TO OBEY A POLICE COMMAND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of
the Town of South Congaree, to fail to obey a direct command of any police
officer.
   (B)   This command may be made by use of a blue light, hand signals or
verbal.
(1985 Code, Ch. 26, Art. V, Div. 8)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 RESISTING ARREST OR INTERFERING WITH EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS.
   Any person who shall resist arrest or interfere with any employee or officer
of the Town of South Congaree in the discharge of his or her duties shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor under §
10.99.
(1985 Code, § 26-311)
Penalty, see §
130.99
FIREARMS
§ 130.15 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or fire any firearm of any
caliber or description, including pellet guns, within the incorporated limits
of the Town of South Congaree, except as hereinafter provided.
(1985 Code, § 26-172) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 PERMITTED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall apply to duly constituted law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   The Council may, upon application, issue permits for the discharging
of firearms upon condition as the Council shall deem fit
(1985 Code, § 26-173)
§ 130.17 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry about the person whether
concealed or not, a pistol (except as allowed by S.C. Code § 16-23-20, carrying
of pistol), dirk, metal knuckles, razor, ice pick, hawk bill knife or any
spring or clasp knife, which has a blade more than three (3) inches in length,
or other weapons usually used for the infliction of personal injury or
injuries.
(1985 Code, § 26-333) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to obey a police command. Violation of §
130.01 shall be deemed as a misdemeanor and the penalty which is provided in §
10.99 shall apply.
(1985 Code, Ch. 26, Art. V, Div. 8)
   (B)   Firearms. Any person violating the provisions of §§
130.15 and
130.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the discretion
of the municipal court by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or shall be fined
the maximum amount able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 without indictment by
grand jury.
(1985 Code, § 26-174)
   (C)   Weapons. Any person convicted of violating §
130.17 shall be punished by the maximum fine able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-
25.65 without indictment by grand jury or be imprisoned for a term of not more
than 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 26-333)
CHAPTER 131:
OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
131.01   Violence
   
131.02   Fighting
   
131.03   Jostling
   
131.04   Gambling
   
131.05   Accosting
   
131.06   Vulgarity
   
131.07   Violence against lawful occupation
   
131.08   Halting flow of traffic
   
131.09   Disturbance of assemblies
   
131.10   Drunkenness
   
131.11   Indecent exposure
   
131.12   Urination or defecation
   
131.13   Illegal drugs or controlled substances
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 131.01 VIOLENCE.
   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward another
whereby any person is placed in danger or in fear of safety of his or her life,
limb or health or whereby the property of any person is placed in danger of
being destroyed or damaged shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-131) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 FIGHTING.
   (A)   Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl or
riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health, or property of
another shall be deemed a disorderly person.
   (B)   Any person who shall, for the purpose of engaging in any fight or
brawl, assemble or congregate with another or others; or any person who shall
assemble or congregate for the purpose of trouncing another shall be deemed a
disorderly person.
   (C)   Any person who shall use "fighting words" directed towards any person
who becomes outraged and thus create a turmoil that can be seen or heard by the
public shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-132) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 JOSTLING.
   Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding or pushing any
person in any public place shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-133) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 GAMBLING.
   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another or others for the
purpose of or with the intent to engage in gambling or gaming in violation of
the laws of the State of South Carolina shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-134) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 ACCOSTING.
   Any person who shall accost or attempt to force his or her company upon any
other person or attempt to pick-up any other person is in violation of this
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 26-135) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 VULGARITY.
   Any person who utters, while in the presence of another, any lewd or obscene
words or epithets or makes any lewd or obscene gestures with his or her hands
or body shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-136) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 VIOLENCE AGAINST LAWFUL OCCUPATION.
   Any person who shall, by acts of violence or aggression, interfere with
another's pursuit of a lawful occupation shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-137) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 HALTING FLOW OF TRAFFIC.
   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on any public
way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuse to
clear the public way when ordered by the town police or other lawful authority
shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-138) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 DISTURBANCE OF ASSEMBLIES.
   Any person who shall interrupt or disturb any audience or other lawful
assembly of people within this town by any noise or loud talking, indecent
behavior, or other annoyance, which may in any manner interfere with good order
and decorum shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-139) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 DRUNKENNESS.
   Any person who is grossly drunk in or on any street or other public place in
the town shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-140) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.11 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   Any person who makes any indecent exposure of his or her private parts shall
be deemed a disorderly person.
(1985 Code, § 26-141) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.12 URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   Any person who urinates or defecates in public shall be deemed a disorderly
person.
(1985 Code, § 26-142) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.13 ILLEGAL DRUGS OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Any person or persons possessing, using, or exchanging illegal drugs
or controlled substances in a public place, or gathering in a public place for
the purpose of using or exchanging in any manner illegal drugs or controlled
substances shall be deemed a disorderly person.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall include all
areas, buildings and other places open to or serving the general public,
whether upon privately-owned or publicly-owned property. The term PUBLIC PLACE
shall also include any automobile or other motor vehicle.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by the
maximum fine able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 without indictment by grand
jury or be imprisoned for a term of not more than 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 26-143)
CHAPTER 132:
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Loitering
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Violation
Drinking in Public Places
   
132.15   Generally
   
132.16   Drunkenness
   
132.17   Disposition of alcoholic beverages in possession of persons committing
alcohol related offenses
Possession of Drug Paraphernalia
   
132.30   Definitions
   
132.31   Factors determining classification of objects
 
   
132.99   Penalty
LOITERING
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this section, LOITERING shall mean remaining idle in essentially
one (1) location, spending time idly, loafing or walking around aimlessly in a
public place, including vacant lots, business locations and other private
property unattended by the owner or to conduct oneself in a manner as to:
   (A)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person;
   (B)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of the peace;
   (C)   Obstruct or hinder the free passage of vehicles or pedestrians;
   (D)   Obstruct or interfere with any person lawfully in any public place;
   (E)   Engage in betting;
   (F)   Engage in gambling;
   (G)   Engage in prostitution;
   (H)   Solicit or engage in any business, trade or commercial transaction
unless specifically authorized and licensed to do so;
   (I)   Unlawfully use or possess any unlawful drug; or
   (J)   Unlawfully use or possess alcoholic beverages, beer or wine on
premises that are not licensed for on premise consumption.
(1985 Code, § 26-226) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 VIOLATION.
   Any person loitering in any public place as defined above may be ordered by
any law enforcement officer to leave that place. Any person who shall refuse to
leave after being ordered to do so by a law enforcement officer shall be guilty
of a violation of this subchapter. Any public location can erect "No Loitering"
signs and this will serve as notice to leave. Any person found loitering on a
posted location is in violation of this subchapter. Nothing in this subchapter
shall be construed or enforced in a manner as to restrict freedom of speech,
religion or association.
(1985 Code, § 26-227) Penalty, see §
132.99
DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 132.15 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall drink any alcoholic beverages including beer or wine
on the streets, road right-of-way, sidewalks, parks or other public places in
the town.
   (B)   This prohibition includes private property not attended by the owner
or instances in which the owner has given approval for the activity.
(1985 Code, § 26-251) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.16 DRUNKENNESS.
   Any person who shall be found drunk or intoxicated in the corporate limits
of the town in any place, public or private, or as to be offensive to others or
a danger to himself or herself or others, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 26-281) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.17 DISPOSITION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN POSSESSION OF PERSONS COMMITTING
ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES.
   Alcoholic beverages possessed by offenders at time of arrest shall be seized
and, following court disposition, destroyed or otherwise appropriately disposed
of in a manner prescribed by the Chief of Police in the absence of court
directed disposition. Alcoholic beverages shall not be returned to an offender
upon release of custody.
(1985 Code, § 26-253)
POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 132.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use or designed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting any species of plant which is a
controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales or balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and Iactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used intended
for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; or
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish oil into the
human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
            5.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material
such as marijuana cigarettes that have become too small or short to be held in
the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bonds; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
(1985 Code, § 26-322) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31 FACTORS DETERMINING CLASSIFICATION OF OBJECTS.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   (C)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of this subchapter;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of any owner or of
anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows
or should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this subchapter, the innocence of the owner, or anyone in control of the
object, as to a direct violation this subchapter shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   (G)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (H)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products; and
   (L)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
(1985 Code, § 26-323) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Loitering. Any person convicted of violating §§
132.01 et seq. shall be punished by the maximum fine able to impose by S.C.
Code § 14-25-65 without indictment by grand jury or be imprisoned for a term of
not more than 30 days. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
that a violation occurs or continues.
(1985 Code, § 26-228)
   (B)   Drinking in public places. Violators of §§
132.15 and
132.17 shall be punished by the maximum fine able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-
25-65 without indictment by grand jury or be imprisoned for a term of not more
than 30 days. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a
violation occurs or continues.
(1985 Code, § 26-252)
   (C)   Drunkenness. Violators of §
132.16 shall be punished by the maximum fine able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-
25-65 without indictment by grand jury or be imprisoned for a term of not more
than 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 26-282)
   (C)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. Any person who is found in violation
of §
132.30 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor under §
10.99.
(1985 Code, § 26-321)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME PARK
      
153.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
      
154.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
155.   DROUGHTS
      
156.   FLOOD DAMAGE CONTROL
      
157.   SEDIMENT CONTROL AND STORM DRAINAGE
      
158.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:
BUILDINGS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of international codes
   
150.02   Adoption of S.C. Code, Title 31, Ch. 15, Article 1
   
150.03   Building permit fee schedule
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL CODES.
   (A)   The latest International and National codes specified by state law are
hereby adopted as though they were copied fully herein.
   (B)   Any matters in the above codes which are contrary to existing
ordinances of the Town of South Congaree, Lexington County, South Carolina
shall prevail and, to that extent any existing ordinances to the contrary are
hereby repealed in that respect only.
   (C)   Within the codes, when reference is made to the duties of a certain
official named therein, that designated official of the Town of South Congaree,
Lexington County, South Carolina who has duties corresponding to those of the
named official in the code shall be deemed to be the responsible official
insofar as enforcing the provisions of the code are concerned.
(1985 Code, § 28-1)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF S.C. CODE, TITLE 31, CH. 15, ARTICLE 1.
   (A)   S.C. Code, Title 31, Chapter 15, Article 1, and have it to include all
commercial structures, as well as all residential structures relating to
redevelopment and dwellings and commercial structures unfit for human
habitation is hereby adopted by reference as though they were copied herein
fully.
   (B)   Any matters in the laws which are contrary to existing ordinances of
the Town of South Congaree, Lexington County, South Carolina shall prevail and,
to that extent any existing ordinances to the contrary are hereby repealed in
that respect only.
   (C)   Within the laws, when reference is made to the duties of a certain
official named therein, that designated official of the Town of South Congaree,
Lexington County, South Carolina who has duties corresponding to those of the
named official in the code shall be deemed to be the responsible official
insofar as enforcing the provisions of the code are concerned.
(1985 Code, § 28-2)
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE.
Building Permit Fee Schedule
Building Permit Fee Schedule
Residential
$0 - $2,999         Minimum fee $25 plus a 10% review fee
$3,000 - $49,999    $25 for the first $3,000 plus $5 per thousand* plus review
                    fee
$50,000 - $500,000  $260 for the first $50,000 plus $4 per thousand* plus
                    review fee
$500,000 and up     $1,800 for the first $500,000 plus $3 per thousand* plus
                    review fee
Commercial
$0 - $2,999         Minimum fee$50 plus a 50% review fee
$3,000 - $49,999    $50 for the first $3,000 plus$7 per thousand* plus review
                    fee
$50,000 - $99,999   $330 for the first $50,000 plus$6 per thousand* plus review
                    fee
$100,000 - $499,999 $600 for the first $100,000 plus$5 per thousand* plus
                    review fee
$500,000 - $999,999 $2,000 for the first $200,000 plus $4 per thousand* plus
                    review fee
$1,000,000 and up   $3,500 for the first$350,000 plus$3 per thousand* plus
                    review fee
Gas and Plumbing
Same as per Residential/Commercial as applicable
Mechanical
Same as per Residential/Commercial as applicable
Electrical
Same as per Residential/Commercial as applicable
*(For each additional thousand or fraction thereof)
 
(1985 Code, § 28-20)
CHAPTER 151:
SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Adoption
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Definitions
Procedure
   
151.015   Generally
   
151.016   Optional preapplication conference
   
151.017   Submission of preliminary plats
   
151.018   Submission of final plats
   
151.019   Hearing requirements
Plat Requirements
   
151.030   Preliminary plats
   
151.031   Final plat
General Requirements of the Subdivision
   
151.045   Generally
   
151.046   Conformance to land use plan
   
151.047   Flooding and drainage requirements
   
151.048   Streets
   
151.049   Blocks
   
151.050   Lots
   
151.051   Subdivision name
   
151.052   Improvements
   
151.053   Variance from the requirements of these regulations
   
151.054   FHA approval
Status of Subdivisions
   
151.065   Generally
   
151.066   Preliminary plat
   
151.067   Bonding
   
151.068   Final plat
Covenants
   
151.080   Covenants
Innovative Developments
   
151.095   Intent
   
151.096   Authority to modify standards
   
151.097   Maintenance of spirit of regulations
Legal Status
   
151.110   Enforcement
   
151.111   Conflict with other laws
   
151.112   Separability
   
151.113   Amendment
   
151.114   Effective date
Private Road Subdivisions
   
151.125   Generally
   
151.126   Preliminary plat
   
151.127   Road agreement
   
151.128   Final plat
   
151.129   Sample road maintenance agreement
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Town Council of South Congaree duly assembled on 5-5-1992 and did
vote to adopt, for the town, the Lexington County Subdivision Regulations.
Included is the addendum addressing Lexington County sediment control and storm
drainage.
   (B)   All subdivision plats are to be reviewed and approved by the South
Congaree Planning Commission.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12)
Cross-reference:
   Sediment and storm drainage control, see Ch. 157
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to achieve the harmonious development of
lands within the area of jurisdiction of Lexington County, South Carolina, to
provide for standards that will, among other things, coordinate proposed road
locations within subdivisions with other existing or planned roads; to insure
the adequate provision of streets, utilities and community facilities which
would establish a living environment in the best interest of health, safety,
convenience, and prosperity, and the efficient and economical application of
the county's resources in maintaining that environment.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 2.1)
§ 151.003 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following rules of construction shall apply to these regulations.
      (1)   The particular shall control the general.
      (2)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word MAY is permissive.
      (4)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the singular,
unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
      (5)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, conjunctions
shall be interpreted as follows:
         (a)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply.
         (b)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
         (c)   EITHER or OR indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (B)   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which reference is made
are those of Lexington County, South Carolina, unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   Except when definitions are specifically included in this section, or
elsewhere specifically defined in the regulations, words in the text of these
regulations shall be interpreted in accordance with the prevalent standard
dictionary definition. In any case, the Development Coordinator shall reserve
the right to arbitrate any dispute arising from the interpretation of the
language contained herein.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, airport boundaries, major
rivers and lakes, or jurisdictional boundary lines of municipalities or
counties.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for use on a permanent basis.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line beyond which no foundation wall or part of
any structure of any building shall project, with the exception of roof
overhang and the subsurface projection of footings.
      DEVELOPMENT COORDINATOR. The member of the staff of the Planning
Commission who administers, interprets and enforces the provisions of these
regulations and who assists the Planning Commission and other agencies in the
subdivision approval process.
      EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner to the general public, a
corporation or a certain person or persons for the use of any designated part
of his or her property for a specific purpose.
      LAND USE PLAN. A plan for the physical development of the area of
jurisdiction, or any amendment or extension of the plan or any addition to the
plan adopted by the Planning Commission pursuant to the authority vested in it
by law and includes among other things a major road or right-of-way plan.
      LOT. A tract, plot or portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or for building development.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot bounded on two (2) or more adjacent sides by streets,
private ways or portions of streets or ways, having an angle of intersection of
135 degrees or less.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any lot, other than a corner lot, which adjoins two
(2) street lines opposite to each other and parallel or within 45 degrees of
being parallel to each other.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or double frontage lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the building setback line parallel to the street right-of-way line, or in the
case of a curvilinear street, parallel to the chord of the arc between the
intersection of the side lot lines and the street right-of-way.
      MAXIMUM FLOOD OF RECORD. The elevation of the MAXIMUM FLOOD OF RECORD
shall be determined by using the 100 year frequency flood elevation as the
elevation where it has been previously determined by published governmental
data.
      PLAT. A map or drawing upon which the plan for a subdivision is
presented. The preliminary plat indicates the proposed layout of the lots,
streets and improvements which the developer desires, and which is given
tentative approval by the Planning Commission. The final plat is recorded in
the Register of Mesne Conveyance Office and reflects the as-built subdivision
in fully approved form.
      PROJECT ENGINEER. An engineer or landscape architect properly registered
and licensed in South Carolina or permitted by the licensing boards.
      PROJECT SURVEYOR. A surveyor properly registered and licensed in South
Carolina or permitted by the licensing board.
      RESERVE PARCEL. A strip or parcel of land within a subdivision which is
not intended as a building site and which is held in reserve for controlling
the access to the subdivision, or for a means for possible expansion within the
subdivision, or for drainage purposes or for any other purpose deemed necessary
either by the subdivider or the governmental authority.
      RESUBDIVISION. A combination or recombination of previously recorded lots
or tracts of contiguous land for the purpose of creating additional lots or
enlarging existing ones.
      ROAD. The terms road, highway, street, avenue and the like shall be
interchangeable as designators of vehicular by-laws providing access to
individual parcels of property, and that pedestrian facilities, bridges,
tunnels, viaducts, drainage structures and other appurtenances commonly
considered as a component part of a road shall also be included in the
definition of the term. A ROAD shall be the physical embodiment of a by-way
irrespective of prior platting or planning.
         (a)   COUNTY ROAD. Any road currently maintained under the county road
maintenance system, and any new road to be constructed within the jurisdiction
of the county which accesses, or presupposes to access, two (2) or more parcels
of land under different ownership, unless the road is a part of the South
Carolina State system of highways or a part of the federal system of highways
or a private road.
         (b)   PRIVATE ROAD. No road shall be designated as a private road,
unless:
            1.   In a new development, the proposed road is defined as this by
action of the Lexington County Planning Commission upon its satisfaction as to
the maintenance of the road;
            2.   All the owners of property accessed by the road agree to and
sign an instrument and plat to be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Mesne Conveyance for Lexington County which waives county responsibility for
the maintenance of the road; or
            3.   The road exists prior to 1-10-1979, and accesses two (2) or
more parcels of land under different ownership, but is not in the county,
state, or federal road maintenance system. This type of private road shall not
suffice as approved access for further subdivision of land.
         (c)   ROAD CLASSIFICATIONS.
            1.   ARTERIAL. A freeway, expressway or a street or highway which
is intended or used for moving either heavy vehicular traffic volumes or high-
speed traffic or both, or which has been designated as an arterial on the
adopted right-of-way plan.
            2.   COLLECTOR. A street which is used or intended to be used for
moving traffic from local streets to arterials and which may include the
principal entrance and circulation streets of a subdivision, or which has been
designated as a COLLECTOR on the adopted right-of-way plan.
            3.   LOCAL STREET. A street which is used or intended to be used
for access to abutting properties, or which has been designated as a LOCAL
STREET on the adopted right-of-way plan.
            4.   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having a short length being
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
            5.   ALLEY. A minor way used or intended to be used primarily for
vehicular access of a service nature to the rear of properties, which otherwise
front on a road as classified above.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   The division of a tract of land or of a parcel of land into two
(2) or more lots, building sites or other divisions, for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale, legacy, or building development, which includes
any of the following:
            1.   The creation of a new county road or the alteration of an
existing road;
            2.   The need for drainage, sedimentation or flood control
measures;
            3.   The installation of a water delivery system; or
            4.   The installation of a sewerage system.
         (b)   SUBDIVISION shall not include the division of a tract of land
wherein each lot created is equal to the standards of the Lexington County
Health Department regarding the use of individual wells and septic tanks and
does not involve any of the activities referenced in divisions (1) through (4)
above.
         (c)   When appropriate to the context, the term SUBDIVISION relates to
the process of subdividing or to the land area subdivided.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 3.1)
PROCEDURE
§ 151.015 GENERALLY.
   The process of obtaining approval for a subdivision is divided into two (2)
parts, approval of a preliminary plat and approval of a final plat. The
preliminary plat approval is a tentative approval by the Planning Commission
which documents for the subdivider that what is proposed is in accord with
these regulations and he or she may proceed to improve the property. The
preliminary plat is the approval for the laying out and development of the
subdivision before any land is sold or transferred. Final plat approval is
awarded when the subdivider has fulfilled his or her obligations with regard to
the required improvements in accordance with the approved preliminary plat. The
final plat is the plat of record recorded in the Office of the Register of
Mesne Conveyance.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.016 OPTIONAL PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may wish to
confer with the Development Coordinator and/or the County Engineer or other
governmental agency representative, to determine whether he or she is
proceeding under the proper guidelines as stipulated in these regulations, to
consider the desirability or necessity of amending the proposed subdivision
plan, to clarify the issues and to discuss any other matter pertinent to the
subdivision as may aid in the disposition of the submittal. The results of a
conference shall be documented by a memorandum or letter to the applicant
within 15 days of the conference.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 4.1) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   The following procedure shall govern the submission of preliminary plats of
subdivisions to the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Whenever any subdivision of land is proposed to be made and before any
contract for sale, or any offer to sell the subdivision or any part thereof, is
made, the subdivider, through his or her project engineer, shall file the
copies of the preliminary plat of the subdivision with the staff of the
Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with
the regulations set forth in §§
151.030 and
151.031 of these regulations and shall be submitted to the staff prior to the
starting of any survey of streets and lots and before the starting of any
grading or construction work upon the proposed streets and before any plat of
the subdivision is made in form suitable for recording. The staff of the
Planning Commission shall determine whether a tentative plat is in proper form
and shall not receive and consider a plat as filed until it is submitted in
accordance with the requirements hereof.
   (B)   Payment of filing fee must accompany the submission of the plats. The
fee for filing for subdivision plat approval shall be as adopted by the
governing authority of the county.
   (C)   The preliminary plat shall be acted upon immediately with the receipt
of all required approvals. In no case shall action be delayed longer than 60
days. A status report shall be provided the subdivider at the end of 30 days
indicating the status of the submittal if the preliminary plat has not been
acted upon within that time.
   (D)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved by the staff of the Planning
Commission or the staff requires changes with which the subdivider does not
concur, or if the staff fails to approve or disapprove the preliminary plat
within 60 days after its submittal, the subdivider may submit the preliminary
plat to the Planning Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting after
the expiration of the 60 day period. The Planning Commission shall review and
approve, disapprove or approve with modifications, the preliminary plat at the
meeting at which it is submitted and the subdivider shall be notified in
writing within ten (10) days of the Commission's action.
   (E)   The preliminary plat shall not be approved by the staff of the
Planning Commission until all public and private agencies to which copies of
the preliminary plat were forwarded have indicated concurrance with the
proposed subdivision.
   (F)   Preliminary plat approval shall be effective for two (2) years from
the date of the approval. Subdivisions, or phases of subdivisions, which have
not received final plat approval by that time, shall be reviewed by the staff
of the Planning Commission to determine the status of the project. One year
extensions of the preliminary plat approval may be granted by the Planning
Commission at the recommendation of the staff provided the subdivider has
indicated a willingness to meet the obligations of the preliminary plat.
Preliminary plat approval may be revoked at any time by the Planning Commission
should the subdivider fail to meet the criteria for development documented in
the plat, or should one (1) or more of the agencies involved in the approval
process revoke their stated approval.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 4.2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.018 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLATS.
   The following shall govern the submissions of final plats of subdivisions to
the Planning Commission.
   (A)   After the proposed subdivision has been prepared and the required
improvements made in accordance with the approved preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall submit the necessary copies of the final plat to the staff of
the Planning Commission. The Final Plat shall be prepared in accordance with
the stipulations of §§
151.030 and
151.031 of these regulations.
   (B)   The final plat shall be acted upon immediately with the receipt of all
required approvals. In no case shall action be delayed longer than 30 days.
   (C)   If the staff of the Planning Commission disapproves the final plat or
approves the plat with modifications with which the subdivider does not concur,
the subdivider shall have 30 days in which to appeal the decision to the
Planning Commission. At the expiration of this 30 day period, the subdivider
may address an appeal through a court of competent jurisdiction. The decision
of the court shall be binding on all parties.
   (D)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the staff of the Planning
Commission, one (1) of the plats thus submitted shall be stamped with the
appropriate certificate of the Planning Commission indicating final plat
approval, and returned to the subdivider for recording as the official plat of
record in the Register of Mesne Conveyance Office.
   (E)   The final plat shall not be approved by the Commission staff until all
public and private agencies to which copies of the final plat were forwarded
have indicated approval of the final plat including the necessary improvements
noted thereon.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 4.3) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.019 HEARING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any plat submitted to the Planning Commission for approval shall contain the
name and address of a person to whom notice of hearing may be sent, and no plat
shall be acted upon by the Commission without affording a hearing thereon,
notice of time and place of which shall be sent by registered or certified mail
to the address not less than five (5) days before the date fixed therefor.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 4.4) Penalty, see §
151.999
PLAT REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.030 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall meet the minimum standards of design set
forth in these regulations.
   (B)   It shall include the following information:
      (1)   Plat information.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, and name of owner and/or
subdivider;
         (b)   Name of surveyor and engineer, with seal;
         (c)   Graphic scale, title, date, and north arrow identified as either
magnetic, true, or grid north;
         (d)   Scaled vicinity map showing the relationship of the subdivision
to the surrounding area’s road system;
         (e)   Total acreage to be subdivided; and
         (f)   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided with all bearings and
distances indicated. The boundary survey shall be to a degree of accuracy as
required by the South Carolina State Board of Engineering Examiners Minimum
Standards Manual for the Practice of Land Surveying in South Carolina.
      (2)   Existing conditions.
         (a)   Topographic contours at vertical intervals of not more than two
(2) feet extended a sufficient distance beyond the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision to aid in the determination of divisions (e) and (f) below. All
elevations shall refer to Mean Sea Level Datum, and the source of the
topographic survey shall be indicated on the plat. The County Engineer shall
have the authority to waive or interpret any portion of this requirement;
         (b)   In case of a resubdivision, a copy of the existing plat will be
submitted and the proposed resubdivision will be imposed thereon if necessary;
         (c)   Location of existing adjoining property with deed record names
of the owners of the property and existing buildings at the boundary line;
         (d)   Existing buildings within the proposed tract to be subdivided;
         (e)   Identification and location of: streams; rivers; ponds; lakes;
swamps; wetlands; and all lands which are within major natural drainage
channels, as shown on the drainage map of Chapter 157, and subject to
inundation by a flood with a return frequency of 100 years. The ten (10) year
return frequency flood shall be similarly identified and located where §
151.047 (B)(1)(h) applies;
         (f)   Identification, location and acreage of all off-site drainage
systems impacting on and/or being impacted by the proposed subdivision;
         (g)   Identification and location of the rights-of-way of streets,
roads, railroads and utility lines either on or adjacent to the property to be
subdivided with identification of utilities in easements and/or rights-of-way
with tower and pole;
         (h)   Identification, location, and size of existing sewers, water
mains, drains, culverts, or other underground facilities within the street or
within the right-of-way of roads adjoining the property to be subdivided.
Grades and invert elevations shall be shown; and
         (i)   Location of city and/or county lines (if applicable).
      (3)   Proposed conditions. Preliminary plat submittal shall reflect the
physical development of the proposed subdivision in accordance with divisions
(a) through (i) below and, as applicable, in accordance with the requirements
of §§
151.045 through
151.054 of these regulations.
         (a)   Total number of lots, with lot size indicated;
         (b)   Layout of roads, public crosswalks and the like, with widths,
names or designations, grades and cross sections showing existing and finished
grades;
         (c)   Layout of all lots, including building setback lines, scaled
dimension of lots, lot and block numbers, drainage and utility easements with
width and use noted;
         (d)   Preliminary plan of sanitary sewer system drawn and engineered
to meet the requirements of the South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control, and the responsible public or private operating agency;
         (e)   Preliminary plan of water distribution system drawn and
engineered to the requirements of the South Carolina Department of Health and
Environmental Control, and the responsible public or private operating agency;
         (f)   Preliminary plan of storm drainage system in accordance with the
specific requirements of the County Engineer's Office;
         (g)   Designation of all land (if any) to be used, reserved, or
dedicated for public use;
         (h)   Designation of proposed uses of lots not intended for single-
family residential use (if any); and
         (i)   Proposed major contour changes in areas which are to be
substantially cut and/or filled.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 5.1) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.031 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the approved preliminary
plat.
   (B)   It shall meet the requirements set forth in these regulations as
follows:
      (1)   Plat information.
         (a)   Name of subdivision and owner, and name of engineer and
surveyor, with seal;
         (b)   Graphic scale, north point, title and date. The north point
shall be identified as magnetic, true, or grid north;
         (c)   Scaled vicinity map showing the relationship of the subdivision
to the surrounding roadway system in the area;
         (d)   Road names, block numbers or designation and lot numbers;
         (e)   Sufficient data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
location, bearing and length of every road centerline, subdivision boundary
line, lot and block line, whether curved or straight. This shall include the
radius, central angle and tangent distance for the center lines of curved
streets. Curved property lines shall show the arc or chord distance radii;
         (f)   All dimensions to the nearest 0.01 of a foot and angles to the
nearest minute;
         (g)   Location and description of all monuments;
         (h)   All rights-of-way, easements and areas designated to dedicated
to public use with the purpose of each stated; and
         (i)   Areas to be used for purposes other than single-family
residential and public, if any, with the purpose, location, and dimensions of
each indicated.
      (2)   Information to accompany final plat.
         (a)   Final plan of sanitary sewerage system detailing an "as-built"
condition;
         (b)   Final plan of water distribution system detailing an"as-built"
condition; and
         (c)   Final plan of storm drainage system detailing an "as-built"
condition.
      (3)   Certifications. The following certificates must appear on the final
plat prior the recording of the document.
   OWNER'S CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described hereon
as _________subdivision, and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with
my free consent, established minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all
streets, public and private use as noted. I also certify that all current
state, county taxes or other assessments relative to this property have been
paid.
____________      __________________
   DATE            OWNER
CERTIFICATE OF ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
I hereby certify that all streets, utilities, and other improvements required
by the subdivision regulations for Lexington County have been installed in an
acceptable manner and according to Lexington County specifications and
standards of ________ subdivision; or, that a guarantee to install the required
improvements, in an amount and manner satisfactory to Lexington County, has
been received.
__________   _______________________________
   DATE   SUBDIVISION PROJECT ENGINEER
         _______________________________
         LEXINGTON COUNTY ENGINEER
         _______________________________
         LEXINGTON COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 5.2) Penalty, see §
151.999
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE SUBDIVISION
§ 151.045 GENERALLY.
   The subdivider shall observe the following requirements and principles of
land subdivision.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.1)
§ 151.046 CONFORMANCE TO LAND USE PLAN.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the land use plan, or
portion thereof, which has been adopted by the Planning Commission and which is
applicable to the tract to be subdivided.
   (B)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a thoroughfare
collector or other road designated on the right-of-way plan as part of the land
use plan, the part of the proposed road shall be platted by the subdivider in
the location and of the width indicated on the plan.
   (C)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided includes a school site or other
public use as indicated on the adopted land use plan, or applicable portion
thereof, the space shall be suitably incorporated by the subdivider into the
preliminary plat of the subdivision. The Planning Commission shall refer the
preliminary plat to the governmental agency concerned with the possible
acquisition for consideration and report, the submission of which to the
Planning Commission shall be no longer than 30 days from the date of the
submission of the preliminary plat, the period to be extended an additional 30
days if the agency contacted expresses a desire to negotiate with the
subdivider for the portion of the land being subdivided. The extension shall
only be granted when a written request is made of the Planning Commission for
the extension.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.1) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047 FLOODING AND DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided if the land is considered by the Planning
Commission to be unsuitable for its intended use by reason of flooding or
improper drainage, objectionable earth and rock formation or any other feature
harmful to the health and safety of possible residents or users of the area and
the community as a whole.
   (B)   All development shall be subject to the provisions of
Chapter 157 in addition to the following:
      (1)   Areas subject to inundation by flood waters.
         (a)   For subdivision within the designated floodplain, the
preliminary plat and the final plat shall clearly show the limits of all
portions of the land being subdivided which are subject to flooding and there
shall be noted thereon the boundaries of the 100 year return frequency flood
elevation and other pertinent information relating thereto as may be required
by the Planning Commission in the particular case. The boundaries of the ten
(10) year return frequency flood elevation shall be similarly noted where
division (h) below applies.
         (b)   Each lot in a subdivision subject to flooding which may be
occupied shall:
            1.   If to be occupied by a residential or retail commercial
structure, contain a building site and accessway to the frontage street with a
ground elevation equal to or greater than the elevation of the maximum flood of
record; or
            2.   If to be occupied by other than residential and retail
commercial structures, possess an access from each building site to the
frontage road with the access elevated equal to or above the elvation of a
flood with a return frequency of 25 years.
         (c)   No portion of any building shall be constructed on any lot
having its finished floor elevation less than one (1) foot above the elevation
of the maximum flood of record or calculated.
         (d)   The elevation of the center line of all new roads shall be
established at or greater than the elevation of the maximum flood of record.
         (e)   All required public improvements, including streets and roads,
drainage, water supply and sanitary sewers shall be in accordance with the
special conditions as may be required because of possible flooding by the
public agency under whose jurisdiction and supervision the improvements are
made.
         (f)   When all the requirements set out above, including private and
public improvements, have been accounted for on the plan of development, it
shall be the finding and judgment of the Planning Commission that the
improvements do not encroach upon or otherwise restrict under flood conditions,
the greater channel capacity in such a way as to retard the stream flow and to
cause the flood elevation to reach greater heights.
         (g)   In cases of special open land uses or other unusual conditions,
exceptions may be made in the above requirements which may permit a public road
or street to be at a lower level when subject to more frequent flooding, and
may include or even require the omission of underground utilities under these
conditions.
         (h)   All of those lands within areas of 100 year flood, as shown on
the Federal Insurance Administration's Flood Insurance Rate Map for the
unincorporated areas of Lexington County, and subject to inundation by a flood
with a ten (10) year return frequency shall be dedicated to public use for
purposes including, but not limited to, flood control, erosion and sediment
control, groundwater recharge, natural purification of stormwater runoff,
wildlife habitat and recreation. These lands may be included within a privately
owned recreational facility so long as the other purposes noted above are not
compromised. The development of the private facility should occur prior to
public dedication.
      (2)   Drainage.
         (a)   All surface water channels shall be widened, deepened or
realigned as is deemed necessary by the County Engineer's office so as to carry
the maximum required storm water runoff and remain within the channel.
         (b)   An adequate drainage system, including necessary open ditches,
pipes, culverts, storm sewers, curbs, gutters, intersectional drains, drop
inlets, bridges and other necessary appurtenances shall be installed by the
subdivider according to plans and specifications approved by the Soil and Water
Conservation District Office and the County Engineer's office.
         (c)   A drainage easement of sufficient width as determined by the
County Engineer shall be placed along all drainage ways. No structures shall be
built within the easements without the permission of the proper authorities. In
those instances where the natural drainage way is too large in size to be
adequately protected by an easement, the subdivider shall designate the
property as a reserve parcel on the subdivision plat. The parcel shall be
indicated on the preliminary and final plats as a reserve parcel and shall
carry the notation thereon:
   Reserve Parcel: Not a legal building site.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.048 STREETS.
   (A)   The street layout shall be in conformity with a plan for the most
advantageous development of the entire neighboring area.
   (B)   All proposed streets shall be in alignment with existing planned or
platted streets with which they are to connect and shall be consistent with the
following:
      (1)   Street names.
         (a)   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with other
existing streets shall bear the name of the existing street.
         (b)   In no case shall the name of a proposed street duplicate or be
phonetically similar to existing street names, irrespective of the use of
prefix or suffix.
         (c)   The County Engineer's office shall approve the assignment of all
new street names to avoid confusion.
      (2)   Street signs.
         (a)   The subdivider shall install required traffic control and street
name signs.
         (b)   The location and design of the signs shall be approved by the
County Engineer's office.
         (c)   Street name signs shall be installed at all intersections within
a subdivision.
      (3)   Street layout.
         (a)   The street layout may include minor streets of considerable
continuity, approximately parallel to and on each side of each major
thoroughfare to avoid lots fronting on the thoroughfares.
         (b)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so
as to produce reasonable gradients.
         (c)   Certain proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary line
of the tract to be subdivided so as to provide for normal circulation of
traffic within the vicinity. Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted
street abutting the tract to be subdivided, the developer shall extend the
street to an intersecting street, or shall terminate the street in a permanent
type turnaround, the radius of which shall be as determined and approved by the
County Engineer.
         (d)   Whenever there exists a dedicated or platted half-street or
alley adjacent to the tract to be subdivided and approved by the Planning
Commission, the other half shall be platted. In no case shall a new half street
be permitted.
         (e)   Cul-de-sac streets may be planned where conditions permit their
use, and in no instance shall be designed to accommodate more than 20 lots in a
residential subdivision or more than ten (10) lots in a commercial or
industrial subdivision.
         (f)   Alleys may be required where appropriate in commercial and
industrial areas. Except where justified by extreme conditions, alleys shall
not be approved in residential subdivisions.
         (g)   All streets and alleys shall intersect at right angles (90
degrees) or as nearly thereto as possible. No street shall intersect any other
street at an angle of less than 75 degrees (angle of intersection to be
measured at the junction of the street center lines).
            1.   The center lines of not more than two (2) streets shall
intersect at any one (1) point.
            2.   Street jogs are to be avoided, but, where unavoidable, street
jogs at intersections shall have a center line off-set of not less than 150
feet.
            3.   A triangular area formed by the intersection of the street
right-of-way lines and a distance 35 feet back along the lines connected by a
straight line at the points thus determined, must be kept clear of all
vegetation, wall or structure for a height of between two and one-half (2-1/2)
feet and then ten (10) feet for vision of motorists, pedestrians, and other
users.
         (h)   All specifications regarding the installation of county roads
within a subdivision shall be determined by the County Engineer's office which
shall approve sub-base and base materials and construction practice, pavement
materials, pavement and right-of-way widths, grades, vertical and horizontal
curves, and any other design requirements for roads not specifically noted in
these regulations. All roads shall be constructed equal to or better than the
South Carolina Department of Highways and Public Transportation specifications.
         (i)   Wherever a tract to be subdivided is proposed to ingress and
egress from and onto an existing road of exceptional vertical or horizontal
fluctuation, the County Engineer's office, taking into account traffic volume
and speed shall determine the appropriate point or points for ingress and
egress.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.3) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Non-residential blocks shall be of the length and width as may be
suitable for their prospective use, including adequate provision for off-street
parking and loading.
   (B)   Residential blocks shall not exceed 20 lots in length or be less than
600 feet from corner to corner, provided, however, that the requirements can be
modified when appropriate due to the topography or physical shape of the
property being subdivided.
   (C)   The width of any block shall be sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of
lots except where topography prohibits or except as otherwise provided for in
these regulations.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.4) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.050 LOTS.
   The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for the
location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemp1ated, and shall be consistent with the following standards.
   (A)   Access. Every lot shall have access to a road or an officially
approved cul-de-sac.
   (B)   Minimum lot size. Unless otherwise provided by an applicable zoning
ordinance, minimum lot sizes shall be determined through compliance with the
Lexington County Building Codes, regulations of the State Department of Health
and Environmental Control, and requirements of the County Health Department
governing use of individual wells and septic tanks.
   (C)   Setback lines. Unless otherwise provided by an applicable zoning
ordinance, building setback lines shall be 45 feet from an arterial, 35 feet
from a collector, and 25 feet from all other roads abutting the property or
individual subdivision lots.
      (1)   The building setback line for lots fronting on curvilinear streets
or cul-de-sacs shall be measured parallel to the chord of the arc established
by the intersection of the side lot lines with the road right-of-way.
      (2)   Where lots are platted abutting on existing roads shown on the
right-of-way plan at a proposed width greater than the present, the building
setback line shall be measured from the proposed right-of-way.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided. Reversed frontage lots shall
be avoided in blocks exclusively residential.
      (4)   Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines and radial to curved street lines. Lots should not be
divided by city limit or county boundary lines, nor zoning districts.
   (D)   Private lot driveways.
      (1)   Each proposed lot for residential use shall be so designed as to
allow the development of a private driveway serving the lot.
      (2)   The driveway shall be so located, designed and constructed as to
provide a relatively level stopping space no less than 20 feet outside the
street right-of-way.
         (a)   Adequate vision clearance at the intersection of driveways with
street right-of-way lines shall be provided. Vegetation, walls, street
furniture, or other structures shall be prohibited between a height of two and
one-half (2-1/2) feet and ten (10) feet for a distance of five (5) feet removed
from the right-of-way.
         (b)   Driveways of corner lots shall be located at least 30 feet from
the point of intersection of the nearest street right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Monuments.
      (1)   All lot corners, street corners and points of change in direction
in exterior boundary lines of the subdivision shall be marked with iron or
concrete markers in accord with the South Carolina State Board of Engineering
Examiners Manual for land surveying.
      (2)   They shall be located within four (4) inches of the finished grade
or flush, as conditions may require.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.5) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   (A)   Subdivision names or other project names shall not duplicate or be
confused with existing names.
   (B)   Names are subject to the approval of the Development Coordinator to
eliminate duplicate or confusing names.
   (C)   A permanent sign structure at a designated principal access to the
sudivision may be installed announcing the name of the subdivision, provided
that the sign shall not encroach upon the right-of-way of the street or road
from which the subdivision is accessed and shall not in any way impede the
vision of motorists entering and exiting the subdivision.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.6) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following improvements are required in all subdivisions in addition to
the other requirements stipulated in these regulations and according to the
provisions listed for each.
   (A)   Water supply. All lots within a subdivision shall have provided a safe
supply of water approved by and installed according to the specifications of
the State Department of Health and Environmental Control and the County Health
Department.
   (B)   Sewerage facilities. All lots within a subdivision shall have provided
a sanitary means of sewerage disposal approved by and installed according to
the specifications of the State Department of Health and Environmental Control
and the County Health Department.
   (C)   Optional improvements. The subdivider may desire to provide additional
improvements in the subdivision according to the following.
      (1)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters, where not specifically
required by the County Engineer as a drainage control device, may be installed
along the streets in a subdivision according to the specifications of the
County Engineer's office and be accepted by the county for maintenance as a
part of the street system.
      (2)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Sidewalks may be installed by the subdivider within the
subdivision.
         (b)   If the subdivider desires sidewalks to be accepted as part of
the road system, the sidewalk installation shall be done within the right-of-
way according to the specifications of the County Engineer's office.
         (c)   If the subdivider desires not to include the sidewalks within
the county maintenance system, then the sidewalks shall be constructed outside
of the street right-of-way.
      (3)   Street trees and furniture. If the subdivider desires to include
street trees or furniture along the street to enhance the appearance of the
subdivision, the trees or furniture shall not be placed on any street right-of-
way of less than 60 feet to insure that there will be no future conflict with
the vision of motorists, pedestrians and the like, or with utility lines either
above or below the ground surface.
      (4)   Recreation space. If the subdivider desires to provide space for
recreation for the occupants of the subdivision, the space should be so
indicated on the preliminary plat and necessary provisions made for the
maintenance of the space irrespective of dedication to the county.
      (5)   Street lighting. Street lights may be installed by the subdivider,
provided that:
         (a)   If the lights are placed within the street right-of-way, these
same shall not be a part of the total improvements in the right-of-way accepted
by the county for maintenance; and
         (b)   The lights shall not be directed in any way so as to shine or
illuminate the buildable areas of the lots within the subdivision.
      (6)   Crosswalks. The subdivider may incorporate public crosswalks into
his or her subdivision design, provided that:
         (a)   The crosswalks are indicated on the preliminary plat and final
plat; and
         (b)   The crosswalks are constructed according to the standards of the
County Engineer's office.
      (7)   Bike trails and pedestrian ways.
         (a)   The subdivider may wish to delineate trails and paths through
the subdivision for bicyclists or pedestrains.
         (b)   These trails shall be perpetually maintained by the subdivider
or a form of Home Owners Association.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.7) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053 VARIANCE FROM THE REQUIREMENTS OF THESE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Variances. Where it can be shown that there are extraordinary
hardships in the way of complete compliance with these regulations so that
substantial justice may be done and public interest secured, provided, however,
that no variation shall have the effect of reducing the traffic carrying
capacity of any thoroughfare below that indicated on the right-of-way plan.
   (B)   Private roads.
      (1)   Should the subdivider wish to retain ownership and maintenance of
roads privately, he or she shall make application for this with the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may permit the private ownership provided
that the conditions for maintenance of the roads are deemed adequate.
         (a)   Roads to be retained in private ownership shall be posted as
"privately maintained roads" utilizing signs approved by the County Engineer.
All roads shall be named and signed in accordance with §§
151.048 (B)(1) and (2).
         (b)   The mechanism for the perpetual maintenance of private roads
shall be explicitly documented before the Planning Commission at the time of
submission and recorded with the approved plat.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.8) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.054 FHA APPROVAL.
   (A)   In the event the subdivider plans to secure approval of his or her
subdivision design from the Federal Housing Administration, the subdivider may
wish to secure the approval prior to the submission of a preliminary plat to
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Compliance with FHA standards does not preclude compliance with these
regulations nor any other applicable codes, regulations or ordinances.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 6.9)
STATUS OF SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.065 GENERALLY.
   The legal status of subdivisions as to when in the subdivision process lots
can be sold, conveyed or transferred, or when individual lots can be improved
with buildings, or when subdivision improvements can be installed shall be
according to the following.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 7)
§ 151.066 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Prior to preliminary plat submission, the tract shall be considered as
a legal building site under single ownership and shall be accorded all rights
and privileges for development as a single unit of land with regard to grading
and building permits and the transfer of ownership.
   (B)   At the time of preliminary plat submission, the intent of the
subdivider is officially recognized. No building permits may be issued until
the time as the preliminary plat is approved. No ownership transfer, save of
the entire tract, shall be recognized. The subdivider may obtain, however, a
grading permit to perform incidental site preparation.
   (C)   Upon the granting of preliminary plat approval, building permits may
be issued for lots within the subdivision, provided the lots front on an
existing publicly maintained road, or on a road substantially constructed in
accordance with the approved preliminary plat.
      (1)   Preliminary plat approval shall grant tentative approval to the
subdivider for the installation of all improvements within the subdivision.
      (2)   He or she may proceed to so install roads, water lines, sewer lines
and the like in accordance with the preliminary plat.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 7.1) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.067 BONDING.
   (A)   In lieu of the completion of the physical development and installation
of the required improvements previous to the approval of the final plat, the
governing authority of the county may accept a bond, upon approval of the
Planning Commission, and with surety and conditions satisfactory to it,
providing for securing to the county the actual construction and installation
of the improvements and utilities within a period specified by the Planning
Commission and expressed in the bond.
   (B)   The nature of the surety and procedure shall be as determined by the
governing authority of the county.
   (C)   The bonding of a subdivision project prior to final plat approval
shall authorize the sale, conveyance or transfer of lots within the
subdivision, in addition to the use of the lots as legal building sites.
   (D)   To facilitate the sale, conveyance or transfer of lots within a bonded
subdivision of a tentative final plat with the bond application.
   (E)   Release or reduction of the bond amount prior to final plat approval
may be accomplished upon the recommendation of the County Engineer provided the
public improvements are adequately installed and ready for acceptance into the
county maintenance system.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 7.2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.068 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Upon the approval and recording of the final plat, the subdivision
lots are granted full privileges as individual building sites and may be sold,
conveyed or transferred as legal properties.
   (B)   The acceptance by the county for maintenance of the required public
improvements shall be a fact at or before the recording of the final plat.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 7.3)
COVENANTS
§ 151.080 COVENANTS.
   (A)   The subdivider may desire to restrict the use of lots within the
subdivision, guarantee a minimum building floor area, control the use of
fencing or landscaping, or in other ways control the development of the
subdivision by recording covenants or deed restrictions applicable to every lot
within the sudivision.
   (B)   The covenants or restrictions shall not violate any law existing
within the county or the State of South Carolina.
   (C)   The covenants or restrictions should be recorded before or at the
recording of the final plat of subdivision, or, if the subdivision is bonded,
at the time of the acceptance of the bond by the county.
   (D)   A copy of the covenants or restrictions, and future alterations, shall
be filed with the development coordinator who shall maintain a file of the
covenants or restrictions for information only.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 8.1) Penalty, see §
151.999
INNOVATIVE DEVELOPMENTS
§ 151.095 INTENT.
   These regulations are intended to insure that all new developments shall
contribute to the building of economically sound and desirable living areas
with all necessary services and facilities, while at the same time recognition
is given to innovative techniques of design with regard to density, open space,
energy conservation and other conditions which evolve a livable community.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 9.1)
§ 151.096 AUTHORITY TO MODIFY STANDARDS.
   In order to provide the subdivider with maximum flexibility in the design
and character of new residential developments, the Planning Commission is
hereby authorized to modify the standards and requirements of these
regulations. In the case of a plan for an experimental subdivision, cluster
development or planned neighborhood unit, which in the judgment of the Planning
Commission provides adequate public spaces for the circulation, recreation,
light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and populated,
and which also provides the covenants, or other legal provisions as will assure
conformity to and achievement of the plan, the Planning Commission shall have
the authority to approve the development on its own merits.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 9.2)
§ 151.097 MAINTENANCE OF SPIRIT OF REGULATIONS.
   Any development of subdivision approved under this chapter shall maintain
the objectives, purposes and intent of these regulations.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 9.3) Penalty, see §
151.999
LEGAL STATUS
§ 151.110 ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever it shall come to the attention of the governing authority that any
provision of these regulations has been or is being violated, the county may
immediately institute suit and prosecute the same to final judgment.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.2) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.111 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of these regulations, the
requirements shall be considered as the minimum requirements for the
subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of Lexington County. It is not the
intent of these regulations to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties, provided, however,
that where these regulations impose a greater restriction upon the use of
property or premises or upon the buildings thereon, or require greater space
than is imposed by the other resolutions, rules or regulations, or by
easements, covenants or agreements, or by ordinances, the provisions of these
regulations shall prevail.
   (B)   All ordinances and resolutions regulating the subdivision of land
adopted prior to the effective date of these regulations are hereby repealed.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.3)
§ 151.112 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, clause or provision of these regulations be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, the
decision shall not affect the validity of these regulations as a whole or any
part thereof other than the part declared to be unconstitutional or invalid;
each section, clause or provision hereof being declared separate.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.4)
§ 151.113 AMENDMENT.
   These regulations may be amended after notice and public hearing in the same
manner as prescribed by law for their original adoption.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.5)
§ 151.114 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations shall take effect and be enforced from and after 3-12-
1980, the public welfare demanding it; provided, however, these regulations
shall not apply to any subdivision or part thereof as to which design approvals
have heretofore been obtained from the appropriate governmental agencies.
Developers of subdivisions already under development shall notify the Planning
Commission within 60 days from the date of the adoption of these regulations.
The notification shall include a copy of the plans and a copy of any previous
approvals.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.6)
PRIVATE ROAD SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.125 GENERALLY.
   Persons desiring to establish private roads for the purpose of subdivision
development shall follow the procedures outlined below.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1986)
§ 151.126 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Private road subdivisions shall follow the same submission and
platting procedures as outlined in the Lexington County subdivision regulations
for standard subdivisions. However, because the roads are proposed to be
privately maintained, the review process is altered slightly. The Lexington
County Planning Commission is authorized by those regulations to approve a
project only upon its satisfaction as to the provisions for maintenance of the
roads in the subdivision.
   (B)   To assist in this determination, the Commission requires a review of
the preliminary plat drawings by the Planning and Development staff of
Lexington County to determine compliance with the following guidelines.
      (1)   Road layout.
         (a)   Through roads which connect existing roads may not be approved
if they are likely to be used by the general public.
         (b)   Road alignments which create inadequate sight distances are
prohibited.
         (c)   Requirements for road names, signs, and layout shall be the same
as found in § 151.048.
         (d)   Dead-end roads shall terminate in a turnaround with at least an
80-foot diameter.
         (e)   Road rights-of-way shall be of sufficient width to allow
adequate maintenance of any proposed road. In most cases this will require a
minimum 50-foot width on the roadway and 100-foot diameter on any cul-de-sacs.
Projects proposed with less right-of-way must demonstrate the ability of the
layout to accommodate maintenance.
         (f)   Road rights-of-way shall not conflict with previously executed
public rights-of-way (utility, rail or road).
      (2)   Road design.
         (a)   Roads across pond dams are strongly discouraged.
         (b)   Roads shall be designed so as to require minimal maintenance by
the future residents. Of primary concern are excessive slopes on the roads and
low-lying areas with drainage needs. Sufficient engineering drawings must be
submitted by the developer in order for this determination to be made.
         (c)   Unpaved roads may not be approved unless the following
guidelines are met:
            1.   There are no more than ten (10) lots using the roadway;
            2.   The length of the roadway is less than 2,500 feet;
            3.   Slopes are such that the calculated velocity of water in the
road and ditch sections is less than two and one-half (2-1/2) feet per second
for sandy loam soils and four (4.0) feet per second for clay soils; and
         (d)   Paved roads must be designed to meet the standards of Lexington
County for sub-base, base and pavement materials.
      (3)   Storm drainage system.
         (a)   The project shall be designed to properly handle storm drainage
entering and leaving the site.
         (b)   Sediment and erosion control measures shall be required on all
grading.
         (c)   Open ditches will be allowed outside the road right-of-way when
the proposed ditch section has side slopes which are three-to-one (3/1) or
flatter. Steeper slopes may be allowed if there is a good stand of grass.
         (d)   Steeper side slopes may also be allowed on major drainage
channels as identified in Chapter 157 if they are submitted with a specific
design treatment approved by the Planning Engineer or left in their natural
condition with appropriate easements.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1986) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.127 ROAD AGREEMENT.
   A road maintenance agreement must also be filed with and approved by the
Planning Commission before a preliminary plat approval can be given to a
project. The attached sample agreement in §
151.129 should be modified to suite the particular needs of a project, such as
basing the costs in §
151.129 on acreage or front-foot dimensions instead of lots. If these
provisions are incorporated into a master deed or other document containing
covenants and restrictions for the subdivision, that document may be submitted
instead of a road agreement. The developer should also note that this sample
agreement contains certain provisions which are considered essential by the
Commission. The Planning Commission also requires that a property owner’s
association be chartered with the Secretary of State for South Carolina for the
purpose of implementing this agreement and that by-laws be developed for the
operation of that association.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1986) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.128 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Final plat approval of a private road subdivision can be given only
after completion of the following items. This approval is required before any
property can be conveyed and therefore allows the plat of the project to be
recorded in the RMC office.
      (1)   The road maintenance agreement must be recorded with the plat at
which time the Department of Planning and Development will require verification
that the restrictions are being placed on the property owners adjoining the
road.
      (2)   Construction of the road and storm drainage system to the
satisfaction of the Planning Engineer.
      (3)   If utilized, completion of any water or sewer systems. These
improvements may be bonded, however, the road and storm drainage systems must
be completed.
      (4)   Installation of traffic control and street name signs indicating
each road to be a privately maintained road. Installation standards for these
signs should be obtained from the Planning Engineer's Office.
   (B)   All projects, including subdivisions, are reviewed by the Lexington
County Planning and Development staff in the order in which they are submitted.
Since the staff review of private road subdivisions must be completed before
they can be placed on the Planning Commission agenda, it is important that
engineering drawings and road agreements be prepared and submitted several
weeks before the next Commission meeting. The Planning Commission meets on the
Tuesday immediately preceding the third Wednesday of each month and the agenda
is finalized and prepared for mailing on the Tuesday one (1) week prior to the
meeting.
(Ord. passed 2-17-1986) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.129 SAMPLE ROAD MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Whereas the undersigned,___________,is the owner and developer of the
property described below, and;
   (B)   Whereas, (the owner/developer) desires to impose restrictions and
conditions for the use and maintenance of the (description of the road) to be
jointly owned by any and all purchasers of the lots set forth hereinafter
below.
   (C)   (1)   Now therefore know all men by these presents that the following
restrictions and conditions and covenants upon the lands described as follows:
      (2)   (legal description to include the name of the subdivision and the
book location in in RMC Office)
      (3)   The conditions and restrictions imposed on the aforesaid property
are as follows:
         (a)   The   (description of the road) running through the property as
shown on the aforesaid plat is for the joint use of the owners of lots
(description of lots), their successors, and assigns, for ingress and egress to
and from the respective lots and for the installation of public utilities.
These owners shall be called the (subdivision name) Property Owners Association
hereinafter called the Association.
         (b)   A property owner is a person, firm, corporation, partnership,
trust or other legal entity, or any combination thereof, who is the holder of a
deed to a lot in ________________subdivision. It is the responsibility of each
present and subsequent member of the Association to assist in keeping the road
in a high state of maintenance and to respect the rights of the other property
owners in its use. Since this road is not being engineered   and constructed
according to Lexington County standards, it will not be the responsibility of
Lexington County to maintain this road.
         (c)   Maintenance cost to the roadway shall be borne in accordance
with the percentage of ownership of the lots hereinabove set forth; the
interest at this state being solely in the name of (the owner/developer).
Percentage shall be divided equally for each lot owned, therefore, with the
property subdivided into _____lots, the ownership of each lot represents
(fraction) of the maintenance cost to be shared. The developer shall carry all
the responsibilities of a lot owner in proportion to the number of lots owned.
There shall also be no further subdividing of lots within this subdivision.
   (If the developer wishes to either expand the subdivision at a later date or
allow property owners to further subdivide their lots, provisions for this must
be stipulated in this agreement and approved by the Planning Commission.)
         (d)   The Association in January of each year shall elect a Board of
Directors consisting of seven (7) members. This Board shall be responsible for
the care and maintenance of the roadways in __________subdivision, and is
authorized to direct the financial matters of the property owners concerning
collection of assessments and necessary expenditures of joint funds of the
property owners. To carry out these duties, the Board shall elect a President,
Vice-President, secretary, and Treasurer.
         (e)   Upon the initial sale of each lot, _______dollars shall be set
aside in escrow by the developer to be drawn upon as determined by the Board of
Directors stipulated above to provide maintenance to the aforesaid roadway.
      (Escrow funds are not mandatory on paved road projects, however, on
unpaved roads the amount per lot shall not be less than $100.)
         (f)   There shall also be an annual assessment upon each lot owner
which shall be due on July 1 of each year. Initially this assessment shall
be_______dollars per lot per year. This amount may be changed at any time by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the Association. The obligation of each
lot owner to pay this assessment shall be a continuing lien upon the lot,
subject only to the lien on a bona fide first mortgage upon the real property
held by a reputable financial institution; and the lien may be enforced by the
Association in all respects as though secured by a recorded mortgage as
provided by the laws of the State of South Carolina.
   (For unpaved roads the escrow amount and annual assessment shall be equal to
the annual maintenance cost divided by the number of lots. For paved roads the
annual assessment shall be equal to the replacement cost the roadway divided by
the number of lots and also divided by 20, representing the life of the road.)
         (g)   This instrument is to be recorded in the Lexington County RMC
Office, and the undersigned, (the owner/developer), and all future owners shall
cause the following statement to be placed in every contract and deed conveying
lots out of this subdivision. This statement shall be signed by the grantee(s)
and shall be placed immediately below the grantor's signature and shall be
binding on all parties thereof. Failure of any subsequent purchaser to comply
with this provision shall in no way diminish or impair the terms of this
agreement and the conditions, benefits and obligations imposed and granted
thereunder.
         "I, the undersigned, as purchaser of the above lot described in this
deed/contract, acknowledge the existence of the road maintenance agreement as
recorded in the RMC Office for Lexington County in Deed Book____ at Page___,
and do hereby confirm by acceptance of this deed/contract all the terms and
conditions thereof. I understand that since the road described in that
agreement is not being engineered and constructed according to Lexington County
standards, it will not be the responsibility of Lexington County to maintain
that road. I further acknowledge that the lot owners subject to that agreement
shall be responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of that road.”
         (h)   It is agreed that the road shall be kept free of all
obstructions so as to be open for the passage of fire, police, and other
emergency vehicles,
personnel, or equipment at all times; and that the responsibility lies with the
respective property owners, their agents, guests, and employees.
         (i)    That the roadway shall be posted as a privately maintained road
prior to the conveyance of properties, and shall remain posted in that manner
at all times.
         (j)    These covenants and restrictions are to run with and bind the
land, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind property owners subject to
this agreement, their respective legal representatives, heirs, successors, and
assigns, for a term of 20 years from the date this agreement is recorded in the
RMC office for Lexington County; after which time the agreement shall be
automatically extended for successive periods of ten (10) years unless an
instrument has been recorded whereby the owners of the lots have agreed to a
change in this agreement.
         (k)    Changes in this agreement either in whole or in part may be
executed at any time by the recording of an instrument signed by a majority of
the members of the Association.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has caused these presents to be executed
this the_____day of ______________, 20___in Lexington, South Carolina.
WITNESSES:      BY: Property Owner(s)
______________      ____________________
______________
STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF LEXINGTON
TOWN OF SOUTH CONGAREE
PERSONALLY APPEARED before me __________who, being duly sworn, deposes and says
that he or she saw the within named property owner(s) sign and seal the within
road maintenance agreement
for the uses and purposes therein mentioned and that he or she
with__________witnessed the execution thereof.
SWORN TO TO BEFORE ME THIS______day of _________, 20____
____________________(L.S.)
Notary Public for South Carolina
My Commission Expires:_____________
(Ord. passed 2-17-1986)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within a subdivision, transfers or sells, agrees to sell or negotiates
to sell any land by reference to or exhibition of or by other use of a plat of
a subdivision, before the plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and
bonded or recorded in the office of the county where deeds are required to be
recorded, shall upon conviction forfeit and pay the penalties as the court may
decide as prescribed by South Carolina law for each lot or parcel so
transferred or sold or so negotiated for sale. The description of the lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used
in the process of selling or transferring the lot or parcel shall not exempt
the transaction from penalties or from the remedies herein provided.
   (B)   After notification of the adoption of these regulations, the RMC
office for Lexington County shall not accept, file, or record any subdivision
plat which has not been approved by the Planning Commission as required under
these regulations.
   (C)   Should any public official violate the provisions of this chapter, he
or she shall in each instance be subject to the same penalty as provided in §
10.99.
(1985 Code, Ch. 12, § 10.1)
CHAPTER 152:
MOBILE HOME PARK
Section
General Provisions
   
152.000   Purpose
   
152.001   Jurisdiction
   
152.002   Definitions
Administration
   
152.015   Applicability
   
152.016   Procedures for mobile home park approval
   
152.017   Copies of site and construction plan to be approved by other agencies
   
152.018   Planning Commission action
   
152.019   Planning Commission not to override requirements of other agencies
   
152.020   Issuance of permits by the county/state
   
152.021   Final inspection
Operating a Mobile Home Park License Permit
   
152.035   License permits
   
152.036   Application for license
   
152.037   Issuance of license
   
152.038   Special exception review
   
152.039   Approval
   
152.040   Zoning permit
   
152.041   Site plan
   
152.042   Existing regulations and guidelines
   
152.043   Buffering restrictions
Inspection of Mobile Home Parks
   
152.050   Inspections
   
152.051   Denial of permit
   
152.052   Procedure when violations are found
   
152.053   Hearing request
Notices, Hearings and Orders
   
152.065   Notice
   
152.066   Requirements of notice
   
152.067   Granting of hearing
   
152.068   Findings
   
152.069   Public record
   
152.070   Emergency
   
152.071   Revocation
Park Design Standards
   
152.083   Driveways
   
152.084   Mobile home spaces
   
152.085   Minimum area
   
152.086   Maximum number of homes
   
152.087   Phases
   
152.088   Setback
   
152.089   Drainage
   
152.090   Screening
   
152.091   Signage in setback area
   
152.092   Size of signage
   
152.093   Land area for recreational purposes
   
152.094   Size of recreational area
   
152.095   Expansion of existing park
   
152.096   Other facilities permitted
   
152.097   Parking spaces
   
152.098   Tandem parking
   
152.099   Parking space requirements
   
152.100   Roadways as public streets
   
152.101   Roadway requirements
   
152.102   Roadway maintenance
   
152.103   Roadway access
   
152.104   Entrances and exits
   
152.105   Roadway intersections requirements
   
152.106   Roadway intersections lighting
   
152.107   Dead-end roadways
   
152.108   Skirting
   
152.109   Expansion
   
152.110   Locations
   
152.111   Town responsibility
   
152.112   Security lighting
   
152.113   Mailboxes
   
152.114   Minimum size of individual space
   
152.115   Front upon roadway
   
152.116   Minimum lot area
   
152.117   Lot coverage by mobile home
   
152.118   Minimum distance between structures
   
152.119   Distance from other mobile home
   
152.120   Distance from common building
   
152.121   Distance from accessory structure
   
152.122   Connection to utilities
   
152.123   Address markers
   
152.124   Garbage disposal
   
152.125   Replacement parks
   
152.126   Construction and safety standards
   
152.127   Steps
   
152.128   Restriction on age of mobile home
   
152.129   Unoccupied mobile homes
   
152.130   Restricted from using as storage facility
   
152.131   Unlicensed motor vehicles
   
152.132   Operational requirements
Water Supply and Sewage Disposal
   
152.145   General requirements
   
152.146   Water supply
   
152.147   Wells
   
152.148   Well requirements
   
152.149   Well approval
   
152.150   Water storage facilities
   
152.151   Construction of water piping system
   
152.152   Connection of water piping system
   
152.153   Water pressure requirements
   
152.154   Drinking fountain requirements
   
152.155   Water riser pipes location
   
152.156   Water riser pipes requirements
   
152.157   Provisions to prevent freezing of service lines
   
152.158   Shut-off valves
   
152.159   Disinfection and analysis of water systems
   
152.160   Outside fuel storage tank piping
   
152.161   Fuel oil supply systems requirements
   
152.162   Location of fuel storage tanks
   
152.163   Protection of storage tanks
   
152.164   Septic systems
Fire Protection
   
152.175   Rules and regulations
   
152.176   Litter, rubbish and other flammable materials
Alterations and Additions
   
152.190   Plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs
   
152.191   Additions
Miscellaneous
   
152.205   Inoculation of pets
   
152.206   Animals running at large
   
152.207   Register
Supervision
   
152.220   Supervision
Enforcement Interpretation
   
152.235   Enforcement
   
152.236   Nonconforming mobile home park
Mobile Homes
   
152.250   Permitting
   
152.251   Septic tanks, sewer lines, and plumbing
   
152.252   Water
   
152.253   911 address
   
152.254   Doors
   
152.255   Landing, steps, and rails
   
152.256   Skirting
   
152.257   Driveways and parking
   
152.258   Removal of debris
   
152.259   Prohibited
   
152.260   Additional requirements
   
152.261   Fees
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.000 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to ensure the quality of lifestyle for the occupants of
mobile home parks and the residents of the Town of South Congaree, this chapter
is adopted by the Town Council duly assembled.
   (B)   Provisions are made in regard to the health and welfare and shall be
enforced within the corporate limits of South Congaree.
   (C)   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other law presently existing or enacted in the future, the
more restrictive requirement shall apply.
   (D)   If any other provision of any other chapter of this code is clearly in
conflict with this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
(1985 Code, Ch. 6, Part A) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.001 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations set forth herein shall apply to any property located with
the jurisdiction of this chapter that is now a mobile home park.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building or structure located on
the same site as the mobile home which it serves.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A driveway having one (1) end open to traffic and the other end
terminated by a vehicular turn-around; a dead end driveway.
   DRIVEWAY. A road giving access to one (1) mobile home from the roadway.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL. An official of the Town of South Congaree, County Board of
Health or the South Carolina State Board of Health. Aids the building official
in the administration of this chapter and may also be referred to as the health
authority.
   MOBILE HOME. Transportable dwellings intended for permanent residential
occupancy that are built entirely in a factory under federal construction and
safety standards administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD). May be single- or multi-section and are transported to the
site and installed. This activity shall not include modular residential
construction as defined within the South Carolina Modular Buildings
Construction Act. Modular residential construction shall be included in the
Residential Detached or Residential Attached activity types, as appropriate.
Also defined as MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. That portion of a mobile home park that is reserved for
occupancy by a single mobile home unit and its accessory building or structures
and uses.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.
      (1)   A set acreage not less than ten (10) acres designed and constructed
to accommodate mobile homes with at least one (1) of the following
descriptions:
         (a)   Three (3) or more mobile homes or mobile home spaces that are
located within 1,000 feet of one another and operate in any coordinated manner;
         (b)   Three (3) or more mobile homes located on a single parcel or
multiple parcels in the same or different ownership. See §
158.036; and/or
         (c)   Two (2) or more mobile homes or spaces that share a common water
and/or sewer system that is not municipal- provided (ex. private well or
septic).
         (d)   Three (3) mobile homes shall not be considered a MOBILE HOME
PARK if one (1) of the three (3) mobile homes is occupied by the property owner
for a minimum of two (2) years and is his or her legal residence, and two (2)
mobile homes are not rented to others.
         (e)   For specifications or requirements on these parks, see further
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The park may be located on a single parcel or multiple parcels in
the same or different ownership. For the purpose of this chapter, three (3)
mobile homes shall not be considered a MOBILE HOME PARK if one (1) of the three
(3) mobile homes is occupied by the property owner and is his or her legal
residence.
         (a)   A mobile home may be allowed by the Zoning Official without
creating a mobile home park provided the mobile home is to be the primary
residence for an immediate family member with special needs (i.e. disabled,
handicapped, elderly, ill, or other special/dire circumstances) and the other
requirements of this chapter are met. Immediate family members may include
grandparents, parents, spouses, siblings, children, grandchildren, and/or legal
guardians. At such time the additional mobile home is no longer utilized to
house an immediate family member with special needs, the mobile home must be
removed from the site within 60 days.
         (b)   The minimum size of an individual mobile home space in this type
of development is 20,000 square feet.
         (c)   A mobile home on a parcel(s) shall be counted toward the maximum
number allowed even if the mobile home is unoccupied or not currently connected
to electricity.
         (d)   The subdividing of a parcel(s) in order to circumvent this
chapter is not allowed by this definition.
         (e)   Separating the ownership of mobile homes or mobile home spaces
into two (2) or more legal entities for the purpose of avoiding being defined
as a MOBILE HOME PARK is not allowed.
         (f)   The number of mobile homes within a 1,000 feet radius, whether
located on the same parcel or different parcels, as defined in the MOBILE HOME
PARK definition.
         (g)   The following shall be used in determining compliance with the
definition above of a MOBILE HOME PARK.
   PARCEL. A stretch of land under single ownership, either by an individual,
or group of individuals or a corporation, including the words lot, tract, plot,
site or other division of land regardless of how it is described or its use or
intended use.
   PHASE. The term used for a total of ten (10) lots and improvement thereof or
the remaining balance of available spaces.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The South Congaree Planning Commission.
   PROPERTY LINE. The plotted boundary of a mobile home park.
   ROADWAY. A minor private access used by vehicles and mobile home parks with
50 feet of right-of-way with a minimum of 25 feet of pavement.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet and bathing facilities,
maintenance equipment or other facilities, as may be allowed by this chapter.
   SHALL or MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory and the word MAY is discretionary.
   SKIRTING.
      (1)   That material which encloses the perimeter of the bottom perimeter
of the mobile home which conceals from sight the wheels, blocks, and open area
under the mobile home.
      (2)   It is added exterior improvement to the home that provides
protection from the weather, conserves energy, protects plumbing from the cold,
adds insulation and promotes fire safety. (S.C. Fire Code, 1985, § 502.1.3.2)
   STAFF. The administrative staff that manages the town hall under the Town
Council's authority and policies.
   TANDEM PARKING. Any parking facility which when fully occupied denies one
(1) or more vehicles free access to a driveway or street.
   TOWN. The Town of South Congaree.
   UTILITIES. Includes gas, electricity, water, sanitary sewer, telephone and
the like.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. The official charged with responsibility of this chapter.
(1985 Code, Ch. 6, Part B) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.015 APPLICABILITY.
   In order to construct, alter or expand a mobile home park, a developer must
secure the appropriate approval for the site plan and construction drawing from
the Planning Commission. An application form and a $100 fee shall accompany the
site plans. The plans must comply with the provisions of §
152.016. The construction drawing must be approved before a building permit can
be issued. These approved plans must be implemented and completed within a two
(2) year time period after certification from the Planning Commission.
(1985 Code, § 6-1) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.016 PROCEDURES FOR MOBILE HOME PARK APPROVAL.
   A site and construction plan shall be submitted to the town's staff which
shall consist of:
   (A)   A plat of the property drawn to scale no smaller than one (1) inch
equals 50 feet. The scale is to be represented in both a numerical ratio and a
graphic bar;
   (B)   The location of the parcel of land with respect to adjacent roads or
streets;
   (C)   The scaled location of all existing and/or proposed mobile home spaces
(the leasable areas provided to individual tenants or owners), individually
labeled with their square footage and identification numbers. The scaled
locations of all existing and/or proposed buildings;
   (D)   The scaled view of proposed screening identifying the material to be
used mobile homes, spaces, or buildings must not encroach upon prescribed
setback or buffers;
   (E)   The scaled typical elevation view of proposed site;
   (F)   The scaled location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading
spaces and the means of ingress and egress to and from these spaces;
   (G)   The scaled location of all proposed utilities, sewer, and storm
drainage facilities;
   (H)   Other information as the Planning Commission may deem necessary
because of the physical characteristics peculiar to the particular development;
and
   (I)   The developer shall submit six (6) copies of the construction drawings
along with the necessary supporting data to the administrative staff of the
town's staff.
(1985 Code, § 6-2) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.017 COPIES OF SITE AND CONSTRUCTION PLAN TO BE APPROVED BY OTHER
AGENCIES.
   Copies of the site and construction plan shall be reviewed by the
authorities listed below for their approval.
   (A)   State Department of Health and Environmental Control;
   (B)   Lexington County (Building Permit) Planning and Development;
   (C)   County Engineer (Grading and Soil Conservation);
   (D)   Zoning Official;
   (E)   South Congaree Planning Commission;
   (F)   Central Midlands Regional Planning Council;
   (G)   Application must be made to Zoning Board of Adjustment for special
exception; and
   (H)   Application for zoning map amendment for correct zone must be made.
(1985 Code, § 6-3) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.018 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the reports from the above agencies, the Planning
Commission shall approve, disapprove, or approve with modifications, the
construction drawings within 60 days after receipt of recommendation of the
agencies listed in §
152.017.
   (B)   After review and approval for zoning map amendment the Planning
Commission may request an advertised public hearing for map amendment to be
held by the Town Council. Town Council, after the hearing, may approve the
zoning map amendment allowing medium to high density.
(1985 Code, § 6-4) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.019 PLANNING COMMISSION NOT TO OVERRIDE REQUIREMENTS OF OTHER AGENCIES.
   The Planning Commission shall not act to override the requirements of other
agencies. The Commission may seek to bring agreement in cases of conflict
between the various reviewing agencies and the developer.
(1985 Code, § 6-7) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.020 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS BY THE COUNTY/STATE.
   In order to obtain a building permit, the developer shall submit one (1)
copy of the approved construction on plan including all necessary endorsements
to the Building Official. Issuance of a building permit and septic tank permit
will allow the developer to start construction.
(1985 Code, § 6-8) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.021 FINAL INSPECTION.
   Final inspection of the mobile home park for conformance with the approved
plan shall be conducted by the Zoning Official prior to issuing a license
permit.
(1985 Code, § 6-9) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
OPERATING A MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE PERMIT
§ 152.035 LICENSE PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to maintain or operate any mobile home
park within the Town of South Congaree unless he or she holds a valid license
permit issued annually by the Town Clerk in the name of that person for the
specific mobile home park. No permit shall be transferable from one (1) person
to another person. Every person holding a license permit shall give notice in
writing to the town within 24 hours after having sold, transferred, given away,
or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. The
notice shall include that name and address of the person succeeding to the
ownership or control of the mobile home park.
(1985 Code, § 6-16) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.036 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for license permit shall be made to the Town Clerk.
   (B)   License permit shall conform to the Business License Chapter adopted
by the Town of South Congaree. The license fee will not be prorated for mobile
home parks and shall be renewed annually in July.
   (C)   A certificate of approval is to be accompanied by the original
application and inspection, that at least Phase One (1) has been completed,
before a permit is issued.
(1985 Code, § 6-17) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.037 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   License permit will not be issued each year until the annual May
inspection has been done by the Building Official and these reports have been
received by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Skirting inspections shall be done periodically by the Building
Official.
(1985 Code, § 6-18) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.038 SPECIAL EXCEPTION REVIEW.
   A request for a permit for a mobile home park will require special exception
approval from the Board of Zoning Appeals. The basis for such approval is a
demonstration by the applicant that the owner/operator can operate the mobile
home park in a manner that addresses the unique conditions that are created by
rental habitation. It will be the responsibility of the applicant to make
evident to the Board that the following criteria can be met:
   (A)   As demonstration that the day-to-day operations of the mobile home
park addresses the unique conditions of a rental community, the applicant must
demonstrate the ability to effectively manage the park;
   (B)   As demonstration that the mobile home park community will be
harmonious with the surrounding properties, the appropriate buffering
restrictions, general requirements and performance standards will be provided,
if applicable; and
   (C)   As assistance to the traveling public and public safety response
agencies, adequate identification of the mobile home park will be provided. For
E911 purposes, the name and address of the mobile home.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.039 APPROVAL.
   For the Board to rule on a mobile home park special exception request based
on these criteria, the following information must be submitted for
consideration with the application:
   (A)   A management plan addressing such things as group gatherings, parking,
care and control of household animals, traffic controls, disposal of household
and other waste, grounds keeping, and mobile home maintenance;
   (B)   A detailed site plan showing the buffering restrictions, parking,
driveways, spacing and density, drawn in accordance with provisions published
by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
   (C)   A plan for mobile home park identification signage and identification
of the individual mobile homes in accordance with addressing and road naming
provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.040 ZONING PERMIT.
   It shall be the sole responsibility of a mobile home park owner to establish
and operate a mobile home park in accordance with the regulations as set forth
in this chapter. The zoning permit shall be issued on the basis of compliance
with both these regulations and the regulations that are contained within South
Carolina DHEC Regulations, and is considered a “permit to operate” by the Town
of South Congaree.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.041 SITE PLAN.
   All existing mobile home parks should have an appropriately prepared site
plan that includes, but is not limited to, spaces, driveways, space numbers
and/or addresses, parking and spacing between homes and boundaries of the park
to assist in the issuance of permits and to aid park owners in achieving future
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.042 EXISTING REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES.
   All new or expanding mobile home parks must adhere to any applicable
federal, state, or county regulations or guidelines, including, but not limited
to, SCDHEC Regulations, addressing and road naming provisions in this chapter,
the International Building Code, and the Assessor’s Mobile Home Registration
process.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.043 BUFFERING RESTRICTIONS.
   Each mobile home park shall adhere to the buffering restrictions covering
height regulations, buffers, setbacks, and screening as outlined in screening
and buffering provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
INSPECTION OF MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.050 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The health authority/Zoning Official is hereby authorized to make
inspection to determine the condition of mobile home parks located within the
Town of South Congaree in order that he or she may perform his or her duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of mobile home parks and of
the general public.
   (B)   The health authority/Zoning Official shall have the power to enter at
reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of these
regulations.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every occupant in a mobile home park to give
the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part of the
mobile home park lot or premises at reasonable times for the purpose of making
the repairs as are necessary to effect compliance with these regulations, or
with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provision of these regulations.
(1985 Code, § 6-26) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.051 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Any person whose application for a permit under these regulations has been
denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Town
Council under the procedure provided by §§
152.065 through
152.071 of these regulations.
(1985 Code, § 6-27) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.052 PROCEDURE WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE FOUND.
   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the health authority/
Zoning Official finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation
of any provision of these regulations, the health authority/Zoning Official
shall give notice in writing in accordance with §§
152.065 through
152.071 to owner or agent that unless the conditions or practices are corrected
within a reasonable period time, specified in the notice, that the permit will
be suspended. At the end of the period, the health authority/Zoning Official
shall reinspect the mobile home park and, if the conditions or practices have
not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the permit and give notice in
writing of the suspension to the owner or agent. Upon receipt of notice of
suspension, the person shall cease operation of the mobile home park.
(1985 Code, § 6-28) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.053 HEARING REQUEST.
   Any person whose permit has been suspended, or who has received notice from
the town that his or her permit will be suspended unless certain conditions or
practices at the mobile home park are corrected, may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Town Council under the procedure
provided by §§
152.065 through
152.071 of these regulations, provided that when no petition for the hearing
shall have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, the permit shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of the ten (10) day period.
(1985 Code, § 6-29) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS
§ 152.065 NOTICE.
   Whenever the town determines that there are reasonable grounds to believe
that there has been a violation of any provision of these regulations, it shall
give notice of the alleged violation to the owner or agent of the park, as
hereinafter provided.
(1985 Code, § 6-41) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 REQUIREMENTS OF NOTICE.
   Notice shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
   (C)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
   (D)   Be served upon the owner, or his or her agent, as the case may
require, provided that the notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon the owner or agent when a copy of the inspection report
form or other notice has been delivered personally to the permit holder or
person in charge, or the notice has been sent by registered mail to his or her
last known address; or when he or she has been served with the notice by any
other method authorized or required by the laws of this state; and
   (E)   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will affect
compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(1985 Code, § 6-42) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.067 GRANTING OF HEARING.
   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with
the enforcement of any provision of these regulations may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Zoning Board of Adjustment; provided
that the person shall file in the office of the Town Clerk a written petition
requesting the hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the ground
therefor. Upon receipt of the petition, the health authority/Zoning Official
shall set a time and place for the hearing, and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard, and to show why the notice should be modified or
withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten (10) days after
the day on which the petition was filed, provided that upon application of the
petitioner, the health authority/Zoning Official may postpone the date of the
hearing for a reasonable time beyond the ten (10) day period when in his or her
judgment the petitioner has submitted good and sufficient reasons for the
postponement.
(1985 Code, § 6-43) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.068 FINDINGS.
   After the hearing, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall make findings as to
the compliance with the provisions of these regulations and shall issue an
order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the notice which shall be
served as provided in §§
152.065 through
152.071. Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying a
notice, the permit of the mobile home park affected by the order shall be
revoked. Revoked permits may not be reissued but a new permit may be issued, if
all requirements of these regulations are met.
(1985 Code, § 6-44) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.069 PUBLIC RECORD.
   The proceedings at the hearing, including the findings and decision of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, and together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the health authority/Zoning Official.
(1985 Code, § 6-45) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.070 EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the town finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate
action to protect the public health, it may, without notice or hearing, issue
an order citing the existence of an emergency and requiring that the action be
taken as it may deem necessary to meet the emergency including the suspension
of the permit. Notwithstanding any other provisions of these regulations, the
order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom the order is directed
shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the health authority/
Zoning Official, shall be afforded a hearing as provided in §
152.067. The provisions of §§
152.068 and
152.069 shall be applicable to the hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(1985 Code, § 6-46) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.071 REVOCATION.
   (A)   When the License Official determines that the following apply, the
License Official shall give written notice to the licensee or the person in
control of the business within the municipality by personal service or
certified mail that the license is suspended pending an appeal of revocation by
the licensee, which must be submitted in writing to the License Official within
ten (10) days of the date of personal service or certified mailing. The notice
of suspension shall contain a brief statement of the reasons for suspension and
proposed revocation and a copy of the applicable provisions of this chapter.
Should no appeal be filed, revocation will be effective on the eleventh day
following the date of personal or certified mail notice of suspension and
proposed revocation:
      (1)   A license has been mistakenly or improperly issued or issued
contrary to law;
      (2)   A licensee has breached any condition upon which the license was
issued or has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A licensee has obtained a license through fraud, misrepresentation,
a false or misleading statement, or evasion or suppression of a material fact
in the license application;
      (4)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense under a law or
ordinance regulating business, a crime involving moral turpitude, or an
unlawful sale of merchandise or prohibited goods; or
      (5)   A licensee has engaged in an unlawful activity or nuisance related
to the business.
   (B)   Provision to revoke license based on excessive use of municipal
resources. Five or more law enforcement call outs in 12 months for domestic
violence, drugs, code violations on the same lot, and/or felony warrants.
   (C)   When a permit to operate a mobile home park has been revoked by the
town, the park owner shall notify all occupants of the revocation and give
notice that they must leave the park within 30 days after the hearing.
(1985 Code, § 6-47) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
PARK DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.083 DRIVEWAYS.
   All driveways which provide access to any activities within a mobile home
park shall adhere to the following guidelines:
   (A)   Driveways shall be a minimum of 18 feet in width, exclusive of
parking; and
   (B)   All driveways shall be constructed in the following manner:
      (1)   All unpaved driveways shall meet the minimum road design criteria
as stated in the private road policy adopted by Lexington County. If the
unpaved driveway connects to a paved road, a paved apron 50 feet in length
measured from the existing pavement and with the appropriate intersection radii
width must be provided. A maximum of 25 mobile home spaces may access one
unpaved driveway; and
      (2)   Paved driveways shall meet all the applicable paved road design
standards established by Lexington County with the exception of roadway width.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.084 MOBILE HOME SPACES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. The leasable area provided to an individual tenant.
   (B)   In a mobile home park, each space shall have a minimum area of 20,000
square feet and shall also be a minimum average width of 75 feet. The mobile
home space shall be exclusive of the prescribed buffer area, and all mobile
home spaces shall be clearly delineated by fencing, vegetation, or other
substantial means. The delineation of the spaces may be waived by the Board of
Zoning Appeals if the park owner can demonstrate that maintenance and upkeep of
the park will not suffer for lack of this measure. Even if the space
delineation is waived, the prescribed buffer area must still be delineated to
protect the required inactive character of that area.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.085 MINIMUM AREA.
   The minimum area for a mobile home park shall be ten (10) acres used and set
aside for the exclusive use of the park.
(1985 Code, § 6-51) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.086 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF HOMES.
   The maximum number of mobile homes per acre shall not exceed two (2) homes
per gross acre, expressed as ratio of the total number of mobile homes proposed
divided by the total acreage of the park.
(1985 Code, § 6-52) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.087 PHASES.
   After the submission of master construction and site plan approval can be
given in phases (see § 152.002) with lots opened at owner/operator discretion
after securing a town's license permit (issued only for the number of lots
approved). Further approval of any other phase must be on the completion of the
previous phase including roadway, lighting, utilities and the like.
(1985 Code, § 6-53) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.088 SETBACK.
   All mobile homes and all buildings or structures within a mobile home park
shall have a minimum setback of 35 feet from the park's front property line and
15 feet from all rear and side property lines. The setback area must remain
open except for permitted signs and planted strips, and must not be used for
parking or for refuse receptacles.
(1985 Code, § 6-54) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.089 DRAINAGE.
   A mobile home park or additions to mobile home parks shall be located on
well-drained site.
(1985 Code, § 6-55) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.090 SCREENING.
   A mobile home park shall be effectively screened along the front property
line or must have a buffer zone of 75 feet measured from the edge of the mobile
home to the road right-of-way or property line. Screening shall be done by a
planting of evergreen trees, or shrubs designed to be at least five (5) feet
high and four (4) feet deep at maturity. In lieu of a planting street, a
masonry wall or fence at least five (5) feet high and designed to provide
equivalent protection and screening shall be provided at each road frontage at
public thoroughfares. Property lines or roadway frontage must be screened or
fenced.
(1985 Code, § 6-56) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 SIGNAGE IN SETBACK AREA.
   Mobile home park signs may be located within the setback area.
(1985 Code, § 6-57) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.092 SIZE OF SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Not more than one (1) identification sign per street frontage totaling
not more than 30 square feet is allowed.
   (B)   Signs imitating warning signals or utilizing flashing lights or noise-
making devices are prohibited.
   (C)   All mobile home parks are required to install a park sign with the
following information on the sign:
      (1)   Park name;
      (2)   Park phone number; and
      (3)   Owner name.
(1985 Code, § 6-58) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.093 LAND AREA FOR RECREATIONAL PURPOSES.
   All new mobile home parks shall reserve and develop a minimum of one percent
(1%) of its land area for recreational purposes and must remain clean and safe
at all times.
(1985 Code, § 6-59) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.094 SIZE OF RECREATIONAL AREA.
   No recreational area shall be less than 500 square feet in area.
(1985 Code, § 6-60) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.095 EXPANSION OF EXISTING PARK.
   In order to expand an existing park, a recreation area equal to one percent
(1%) of the gross park area (existing plus proposed area) must be provided
within the park boundary.
(1985 Code, § 6-61) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.096 OTHER FACILITIES PERMITTED.
   A park office, laundromat, maintenance buildings and recreation facilities
are permitted in the mobile home park for the convenience of the park occupants
and must always remain safe and well-maintained.
(1985 Code, § 6-62) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.097 PARKING SPACES.
   A minimum of two (2) parking spaces, exclusive of the common mobile home
park driveway(s), shall be provided per mobile home space. Parking of
recreational vehicles and craft must be exclusive of the minimum two (2)
parking spaces for the mobile home and may not encroach the driveway area for
the mobile home park.
(1985 Code, § 6-63) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999 
§ 152.098 TANDEM PARKING.
   Tandem parking is prohibited.
(1985 Code, § 6-64) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.099 PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking spaces will be properly marked, lighted and paved.
   (B)   Bumper blocks provided and indicated on park plan. Two (2) parking
spaces per mobile home unit.
(1985 Code, § 6-65) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.100 ROADWAYS AS PUBLIC STREETS.
   Roadways are not to be dedicated as public streets.
(1985 Code, § 6-66) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.101 ROADWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   Roadways shall have a 50 feet right-of-way with a minimum of 25 feet of
pavement.
(1985 Code, § 6-67) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.102 ROADWAY MAINTENANCE.
   All roadways shall be maintained by property owner or operator.
(1985 Code, § 6-68) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.103 ROADWAY ACCESS.
   No access roadway to a mobile home park shall be located closer than 150
feet to any public street intersection.
(1985 Code, § 6-69) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.104 ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   (A)   The number of entrances and/or exits shall not exceed the ratio of one
(1) per 150 feet of park frontage.
   (B)   Parks with less than 150 feet frontage are only allowed one (1)
combination ingress and egress road.
(1985 Code, § 6-70) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.105 ROADWAY INTERSECTIONS REQUIREMENTS.
   Roadway intersections within the mobile home park shall be at least 150 feet
apart and no greater than 1,000 feet apart.
(1985 Code, § 6-71) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.106 ROADWAY INTERSECTIONS LIGHTING.
   (A)   All roadway intersections shall be provided with a street light.
   (B)   This includes all ingress and egress in the park.
(1985 Code, § 6-72) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.107 DEAD-END ROADWAYS.
   (A)   All dead-end roadways shall terminate in a cul-de-sac with a minimum
turning radius of 40 feet, exclusive of parking.
   (B)   In lieu of a cul-de-sac, other methods to vehicular turn-around may be
approved by the Planning Commission.
(1985 Code, § 6-73) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.108 SKIRTING.
   (A)   Skirting of mobile homes is required with 90 days of arrival at park
with commercial skirting material by mobile homeowner. Any mobile home not
skirted after 180 days will result in the business licensee being subject to
penalties set forth in §
152.999. Extensions may be granted by the Mobile Home Inspector or staff if
proof of extenuating circumstances can be documented in writing that prevented
the owner from under skirting the mobile home.
   (B)   For health, safety, energy conservation and aesthetic purposes,
skirting and ventilation with an access door underneath all living areas is
required within 60 days of foundation approval.
   (C)   Skirting shall be maintained in a good state of repair.
   (D)   Lattice, treated or untreated wood or vinyl is not an acceptable
skirting material.
   (E)   Skirting must have an access door (minimum 18 inches by 24 inches) and
must be properly vented. The minimum net ventilation openings shall not be less
than one (1) square foot for each 150 square feet of under floor space area.
One (1) vent shall be within three (3) feet of each corner.
   (F)   All skirting must be the same pattern throughout the mobile home park.
(1985 Code, § 6-74) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.109 EXPANSION.
   Expansions of existing mobile home parks are to meet the required ten (10)
acres total for each park and location.
(1985 Code, § 6-75) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.110 LOCATIONS.
   Each location is considered a separate entity park and each must meet all
the requirements by themselves.
(1985 Code, § 6-76) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.111 TOWN RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town will be responsible for a total of 24 feet of pipe for exit/
entrance for access roadways.
(1985 Code, § 6-77) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.112 SECURITY LIGHTING.
   Security lighting will be required for every intersection and every ten (10)
mobile home lots.
(1985 Code, § 6-78) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.113 MAILBOXES.
   (A)   Mailboxes are to be:
      (1)   USPS-approved cluster mailboxes made of heavy-duty aluminum and
stainless-steel construction with rugged weather and scratch-resistant powder
coat;
      (2)   Installed, grouped, and marked according to lot addresses inside
the mobile home park; and
      (3)   Well-maintained and replaced as needed.
   (B)   Example of decorative column mounted mailboxes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a5635bf494baf82f468b2912167592f3c70a6682/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2076.png]
 
(1985 Code, § 6-79) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.114 MINIMUM SIZE OF INDIVIDUAL SPACE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. The leasable area provided to an individual tenant.
   (B)   In a mobile home park, each space shall have a minimum area of 20,000
square feet and shall also be a minimum average width of 75 feet. The mobile
home space shall be exclusive of the prescribed buffer area, and all mobile
home spaces shall be clearly delineated by fencing, vegetation, or other
substantial means. The delineation of the spaces may be waived by the Board of
Zoning Appeals if the park owner can demonstrate that maintenance and upkeep of
the park will not suffer for lack of this measure. Even if the space
delineation is waived, the prescribed buffer area must still be delineated to
protect the required inactive character of that area.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum of 30 feet between any two mobile homes or
any mobile home and a common building (laundry, etc.). Where entrances/exits of
mobile homes do not face each other, the minimum setback shall be ten (10) feet
minimum from the mobile home space delineation line. Accessory structures for
individual mobile homes shall be located a minimum of six (6) feet from any
adjoining mobile home. A state or local road widening project shall not create
a nonconformance.
(1985 Code, § 6-80) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.115 FRONT UPON ROADWAY.
   All mobile home lots shall front upon a roadway.
(1985 Code, § 6-81) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.116 MINIMUM LOT AREA.
   (A)   All mobile home lots shall have a minimum area of 20,000 square feet.
   (B)   Minimum activity area of 6,030 square feet.
(1985 Code, § 6-82) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.117 LOT COVERAGE BY MOBILE HOME.
   A mobile home shall not cover more than 25% of the lot on which it stands.
(1985 Code, § 6-83) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.118 MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN STRUCTURES.
   There shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet between the mobile home or any
other building or structure and the abutting park roadway.
(1985 Code, § 6-84) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.119 DISTANCE FROM OTHER MOBILE HOME.
   Mobile homes shall be placed at least 30 feet apart.
(1985 Code, § 6-85) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.120 DISTANCE FROM COMMON BUILDING.
   Mobile homes shall be at least 30 feet from any common building.
(1985 Code, § 6-86) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.121 DISTANCE FROM ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.
   No accessory structure shall be erected within five (5) feet of any mobile
home or within 30 feet of any common building.
(1985 Code, § 6-87) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.122 CONNECTION TO UTILITIES.
   Mobile homes are required to connect to all utilities, except gas and
telephone.
(1985 Code, § 6-88) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.123 ADDRESS MARKERS.
   Each lot shall be uniformly and conspicuously marked with address.
(1985 Code, § 6-89) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.124 GARBAGE DISPOSAL.
   Garbage disposal is the responsibility of the owner of the park and he or
she shall provide either commercial service or subscribe to the franchised
sanitation service provided by the town.
(1985 Code, § 6-90) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.125 REPLACEMENT PARKS.
   Any mobile home that is a replacement for another in all parks must meet §
152.108.
(1985 Code, § 6-91) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.126 CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   All mobile homes shall meet or exceed the Department of Housing and Urban
Development 1976 Construction and Safety Standards for Manufactured Housing.
(1985 Code, § 6-92) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.127 STEPS.
   (A)   Mobile home steps shall be constructed of wood, steel, concrete or
masonry material.
   (B)   These steps shall be stable, and shall not be constructed of dry
stacked masonry units.
   (C)   Mobile home steps shall be at least the width of the door which they
serve and shall be required to have handrails installed.
(1985 Code, § 6-93) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.128 RESTRICTION ON AGE OF MOBILE HOME.
   No mobile home shall be placed in use within the Town of South Congaree that
is more than five (5) years old.
(1985 Code, § 6-94) (Am. Ord. passed- -; Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.129 UNOCCUPIED MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Any mobile home not occupied or rented for more than six (6) months
shall be removed from any mobile home park.
   (B)   Provided, however, this does not require removal of a mobile home
actively rented but which is not occupied because the tenant cannot occupy it
for medical, business or personal reasons.
(1985 Code, § 6-95) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.130 RESTRICTED FROM USING AS STORAGE FACILITY.
   Mobile homes, shipping containers, or other mobile vehicles shall not be
used inside a mobile home park as a storage facility.
(1985 Code, § 6-96) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.131 UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It is the mobile home park owner’s responsibility to ensure that all
unlicensed motor vehicles may not be kept in a mobile home park. Any vehicle
without a current license tag for more than seven (7) days shall be removed
from the mobile home park.
(1985 Code, § 6-97) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.132 OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All grounds, common buildings, and mobile homes located within mobile
home parks are to be maintained in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. The
mobile home spaces shall be kept clear of accumulation, refuse, debris,
garbage, and unnecessary clutter, and all garbage and refuse shall be stored,
collected and disposed of in a centralized and totally screened garbage
collection area, such as a dumpster, and in a manner as not to create a
nuisance, vector attractant, or breeding or harborage problem. Mobile home park
grounds shall be maintained in a groomed and evenly mowed condition and not
allowed to grow uncontrolled, landscaped areas shall be properly maintained,
and dead and/or dying trees that are deemed hazardous to pedestrians and
property must be removed immediately. All mobile home units and common
buildings shall be maintained and kept free of deterioration, rotting
materials, graffiti, rust, tearing, holes, breaks, or other forms of structural
disrepair. Tenants within mobile home parks are prohibited from storing
unregistered vehicles and/or vehicles under repair for longer than 30 days on-
site.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of these regulations, mobile home parks can be
developed or expanded only in accordance with the applicable restrictions
contained herein. Legally nonconforming mobile home parks are subject to the
provisions found in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 152.145 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile home parks established after the effective date of this
change (1-2-1990) shall connect to the nearest water system if one (1) is
available (a six (6) inch line within 150 linear feet). Existing mobile home
parks that utilize a private water system (well) shall, upon the inadequacy
(dry well, pollution and the like) of the system, provide a water supply in
accordance with the following provisions of this chapter and connect to the
nearest available public water system as a condition of continued operation.
   (B)   An adequate (according to current engineering practices), safe, and
potable supply of water shall be provided in each mobile home park; easily
accessible for maintenance, if a private supply. The development of a community
water supply to serve the mobile home park shall occur only after written
approval has been granted by the health authority/Zoning Official and it has
been determined that a public water system is not available by the proper
authority. Any community supply system must meet the requirements of a public
system. The ownership of water lines within the park must be made a matter of
record to the health authority/Zoning Official and the records must include
location maps or drawings of the lines.
(1985 Code, § 6-110) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.146 WATER SUPPLY.
   The water supply shall be capable of supplying a minimum of 50 gallons per
day per mobile home with a yield of one (1) gallon per minute per unit.
(1985 Code, § 6-111) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.147 WELLS.
   Every well shall be located and constructed in a manner that neither
underground nor surface contamination will reach the water supply from any
source. All drainage shall be away from the well. A minimum distance of 100
feet shall be maintained between the water supply and any part of a septic tank
system or privy. Sewers or pipes through which sewage may back up shall be
located at least 100 feet from any well or water-suction pipeline. Where the
sewers or pipes are specially constructed to provide adequate safeguards, and
when specifically authorized by the health authority/Zoning Official, the
sewers or pipes through which sewage may back up may be closer than 100 feet,
but not less than 50 feet from a well.
(1985 Code, § 6-112) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.148 WELL REQUIREMENTS.
   No well-casing, pumps, pumping machinery, or suction pipes shall be located
in any pit, room or space extending below ground level, nor in any room or
space above ground which is walled in or otherwise enclosed, unless the rooms,
whether above or below ground, have free drainage by gravity to the surface of
the ground. The floor of rooms above ground shall be at least six (6) inches
above the ground's surface. All floors shall be water-tight, and sloped from
the pump pedestal to the drain.
(1985 Code, § 6-113) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.149 WELL APPROVAL.
   Where an independent or non-public water system is used to serve the mobile
home park with water obtained from wells, the wells shall have been approved by
the health authority or building officer. A well log is to be submitted with
other data.
(1985 Code, § 6-114) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.150 WATER STORAGE FACILITIES.
   All water storage reservoirs shall be water-tight, and constructed of
impervious material; all overflows and vents of the reservoirs shall be
effectively screened. Open reservoirs are prohibited. Manholes shall be
constructed with overlapping covers, so as to prevent the entrance of
contaminated material. Overflow pipes from a reservoir shall not be cross-
connected to any drain pipe in which sewage or polluted water may back up.
(1985 Code, § 6-115) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.151 CONSTRUCTION OF WATER PIPING SYSTEM.
   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with state and local regulations.
(1985 Code, § 6-116) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.152 CONNECTION OF WATER PIPING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water piping system shall not be connected with non-potable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back-siphonage.
   (B)   All plastic pipe must bear the NSF seal of approval.
(1985 Code, § 6-117) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.153 WATER PRESSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   The mobile home park water system shall be adequate to provide a minimum of
20 pounds per square inch of pressure at all service buildings and mobile home
connections.
(1985 Code, § 6-118) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.154 DRINKING FOUNTAIN REQUIREMENTS.
   Where drinking fountains are provided for public use, they shall be of type
and in locations approved by the health authority/Zoning Official.
(1985 Code, § 6-119) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.155 WATER RISER PIPES LOCATION.
   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined area of
the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will approximate a
vertical position, thereby insuring the shortest water connection possible and
decreasing susceptibility to water pipe freezing.
(1985 Code, § 6-120) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.156 WATER RISER PIPES REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The water riser pipe shall have a minimum inside diameter of three-
fourths (3/4) inches terminating at least four (4) inches above the ground
surface, with two (2) three-fourths (3/4) inch valve outlets.
   (B)   The outlets shall be threaded so that a connection can be made from
one (1) outlet to the mobile home water piping system and the other connection
can serve as an outside connection.
(1985 Code, § 6-121) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.157 PROVISIONS TO PREVENT FREEZING OF SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipe and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
action of ground during freezing weather.
   (B)   Surface drainage shall be diverted from the location of the riser
pipe.
   (C)   Individual service connections shall be so constructed as to protect
the line from infiltration by ground water.
(1985 Code, § 6-122) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.158 SHUT-OFF VALVES.
   (A)   A shut-off valve below the frost line shall be provided near the water
riser pipe of each mobile home lot.
   (B)   Underground stop and water cocks shall not be installed on any
connection.
(1985 Code, § 6-123) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.159 DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS OF WATER SYSTEMS.
   All water systems shall be disinfected and analyzed in accordance with the
South Carolina State Department of Health and Environmental Control
requirements before use for domestic purposes.
(1985 Code, § 6-124) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.160 OUTSIDE FUEL STORAGE TANK PIPING.
   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile homes
shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened in place.
(1985 Code, § 6-125) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.161 FUEL OIL SUPPLY SYSTEMS REQUIREMENTS.
   All fuel oil supply systems provided for mobile homes, service buildings and
other structures shall have shut-off valves located within five (5) inches of
storage tanks.
(1985 Code, § 6-126) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.162 LOCATION OF FUEL STORAGE TANKS.
   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely placed and shall not
be less than ten (10) feet from any mobile home unit.
(1985 Code, § 6-127) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.163 PROTECTION OF STORAGE TANKS.
   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected against
physical damage.
(1985 Code, § 6-128) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.164 SEPTIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   (1)   After the water supply final approval has been issued, the
mobile home park owner can apply for corresponding permits to construct an
individual sewage treatment and disposal system from the South Carolina
Department of Health and Environmental Controls office.
      (2)   All septic systems proposed for the park must be current for the
phase under development.
      (3)   Use of a community sewage disposal system is mandatory if so deemed
by South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   (B)   In the case of individual septic systems the state licensed contractor
is responsible for scheduling the inspections of the installations to be
performed. Results of the inspections must be recorded with the Municipal Clerk
before operating permits can be issued.
(1985 Code, § 6-129) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
FIRE PROTECTION
§ 152.175 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The mobile home park area shall be subject to the rules and regulations of
the state and local fire prevention authority.
(1985 Code, § 6-136) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.176 LITTER, RUBBISH AND OTHER FLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   Mobile home park areas shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
(1985 Code, § 6-137) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
ALTERATIONS AND ADDITIONS
§ 152.190 PLUMBING AND ELECTRICAL ALTERATIONS OR REPAIRS.
   All plumbing and electrical alterations or repairs in the mobile home park
shall be made in accordance with applicable local regulations.
(1985 Code, § 6-141) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.191 ADDITIONS.
   No permanent additions shall be built onto or become a part of any mobile
home unless they are in accordance with the requirements established with the
town, including the provisions of §§
152.085 through
152.131.
(1985 Code, § 6-142) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 152.205 INOCULATION OF PETS.
   Pet animals must be inoculated against rabies in accordance with the State
Department of Health and Environmental Control.
(1985 Code, § 6-151) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.206 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Pets and animals may not run at large and must be either confined or kept on
a leash and shall comply with other town ordinances regulating dogs, pets and
animals.
(1985 Code, § 6-152) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.207 REGISTER.
   (A)   Every mobile home park owner or operator shall maintain a register
containing a record of all mobile homes and occupants using the mobile home
park.
   (B)   The register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting
the park, and shall be preserved for the period required by the health
authority/Zoning Official.
   (C)   The register shall contain:
      (1)   The names and addresses of all mobile home occupants residing in
the park; and
      (2)   The dates of arrival and departure of each mobile home and/or
occupant.
(1985 Code, § 6-153) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
SUPERVISION
§ 152.220 SUPERVISION.
   The person to whom a permit for a mobile home park is issued shall at all
times operate the park in compliance with these regulations, and shall provide
adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
(1985 Code, § 6-161) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
152.999
ENFORCEMENT INTERPRETATION
§ 152.235 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   These rules and regulations are issued under the authority of the
South Carolina Code of Laws and subsequent legislation. They shall be enforced
by the health authority/Zoning Official, and/or town governing authority, in
accordance with the interpretations and public health reasons approved by the
State Department of Health and Environmental Control.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are in conflict with other
ordinances pertaining to mobile home parks, the most restrictive provisions
shall be enforced.
   (C)   The Enforcement Officer, upon 60 days’ notice, may withdraw a zoning
permit issued to the mobile home park owner and require the park to cease
operation. Other enforcement procedures are found in this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 6-171) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.236 NONCONFORMING MOBILE HOME PARK.
   (A)   Measurement of period until required compliance. The period until
required compliance for each nonconforming mobile home park shall be measured
from the effective date of the initial enactment of this section.
   (B)   Required conformance of a mobile home park. Any mobile home park which
is a legal nonconformity may be continued for a period of five (5) years
without increasing the degree of nonconformity. After five (5) years, the
mobile home park may continue only through compliance with the parking and
operational requirements of this chapter and with the driveway restrictions,
screening requirements and performance standards of this chapter. Required
screening for nonconforming mobile home parks shall be limited to Restrictive
Development zoning districts and protected grandfathered residential uses only.
Any applicable federal, state, or county regulations or guidelines, including,
but not limited to, SCDHEC Regulations, addressing and road naming provisions
in this chapter, the International Building Code, and the Assessor’s Mobile
Home Registration process must be met. Proposed name changes to nonconforming
mobile home parks must be approved by the Town of South Congaree Planning
Department.
   (C)   Abandonment. Whenever 50% of the mobile homes within a mobile home
park are removed or become unoccupied for a continuous period of 12 months, the
mobile home park may be reestablished only through compliance with all the
restrictions applicable to a new park.
   (D)   Damage. If a structure in a legally nonconforming mobile home park is
damaged or destroyed during the period until required compliance, the structure
may be repaired or replaced only in compliance with this chapter.
   (E)   Repairs and alterations. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the ordinary maintenance and repair of a structure in a legally.
   (F)   Operational Requirements. All nonconforming mobile home parks shall
comply with the operational requirements listed in.
   (G)   Buffering restrictions. Each mobile home park shall adhere to the
buffering restrictions covering height regulations, buffers, setbacks, and
screening as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
MOBILE HOMES
§ 152.250 PERMITTING.
   No mobile home may be placed on any property or lot without first obtaining
a permit. Permits must be approved by the Town of South Congaree before any
work is started. Obtaining a mobile home permit requires the following:
   (A)   Zoning verification from Town Hall;
   (B)   If a septic tank is required, application for the septic tank will be
made through DHEC, and a copy of that permit must be submitted to the
department upon application for a mobile home permit;
   (C)   Provide two (2) copies of recordable plat of the proposed site, which
shall include landscaping, illustrations of any right-of-ways, easements,
streets, buildings and drainage areas;
   (D)   Submit a notarized letter of intent;
   (E)   Submit copies of bill of sale and title registration forms;
   (F)   If the mobile home is new, provide a brochure of the purchased mobile
home and underpinning. If pre-owned, provide photos of all sides of mobile home
and a sample of the underpinning; and
   (G)   Approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.251 SEPTIC TANKS, SEWER LINES, AND PLUMBING.
   If a septic tank is required, application for the septic tank will be made
through DHEC, and a copy of that permit must be submitted to the department
upon application for a mobile home permit.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.252 WATER.
   Provide certification of properly installed and functioning well if not on a
municipal water, private well for mobile home.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.253 911 ADDRESS.
   (A)   The 911 address must be visibly displayed on the home with three (3)
inch numbers, and if the home is located more than 50 feet from the street,
three (3) inch 911 address numbers should also be located on the mailbox or at
the driveway.
   (B)   If a mobile home is located in a mobile home park, in addition to the
numerical address, the lot number shall be posted.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.254 DOORS.
   Exterior storm and screen doors do not count as the door swinging over the
landing, only the actual entrance door itself.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.255 LANDING, STEPS, AND RAILS.
   (A)   Steps and landings shall be designed for mobile homes or constructed
in such a manner as to ensure the safety of persons entering or exiting the
home and shall meet the requirements as defined in the Uniform Standards code.
Steps and landings are required at all outside entrances, including patio
doors, and must be in place before an inspection request is made.
   (B)   Landings. Code Section R311.3 and R311.3.1 International Residential
Code (IRC). The width of each landing shall be not less than the door served.
The landing shall have a dimension of not less than 36 inches measured in the
direction of travel. The floor or landing shall not be more than one and one
half (1-1/2) inches lower than the top of the threshold. The floor or landing
can be up to seven and three- fourth (7-3/4) inches below the top of the
threshold if the door, other than a screen or storm door, does not swing over
the landing.
   (C)   Steps. Code Section R311.7.5.1 SC Modification IRC 2015 09 and
R311.7.5.2. The maximum riser height shall be seven and three-fourth (7-3/4)
inches. The maximum riser height for masonry stairs shall be eight (8) inches.
Tread depth shall be a minimum of ten (10) inches. The greatest riser height
within any flight of stairs shall not exceed the smallest by more than three-
eighths (3/8) of an inch. Risers shall be vertical or sloped from the underside
of the nosing of the tread above at an angle not more than 30 degrees from the
vertical. Open risers are permitted provided that the opening between treads
does not permit the passage of a four (4) inch diameter sphere. A nosing not
less than three-fourth (3/4) inches and not more than one and one-fourth (1-1/
4) inches shall be provided on all stairways with solid risers. The tread depth
is measured horizontally from nosing to nosing. A nosing is not required when
the tread depth is a minimum of 11 inches.
   (D)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GUARDRAIL. A barrier that is intended to keep a person from falling off a
landing, stairs or elevated location.
      HANDRAILS. Installed to help while climbing stairs by providing a surface
by which one can easily grasp and hold.
   (E)   Guardrails. Code Section R312.1.1 through R312.1.4. All porches and
decks located more than 30 inches above the grade or floor below shall have
guardrails not less than 36 inches in height. Steps attached to landings
requiring guardrails shall also have guardrails not less than 34 inches
measured from the nosing of the treads. Each side of stairs shall have
guardrails installed unless the stairs are located beside a structure that
would prevent a fall hazard. The stairs guardrail can double as a handrail if
it is a minimum of 34 inches or a maximum of 38 inches above the nosing and has
the proper gripping surface to meet the handrail requirements. All guardrails
at porches, decks and stairs shall have pickets or ornamental closures that do
not allow the passage of a sphere four (4) inches in diameter.
   (F)   Handrails. Code Section R311.7.8.1 through R311.7.8.4. Handrails
having minimum and maximum heights of 34 inches and 38 inches, respectively,
measured vertically from the nosing of the treads shall be provided on at least
one (1) side of stairways of four (4) or more risers. All handrails shall be
continuous of the full length of the stairs and have a grasping surface with a
circular cross-sectional dimension of one and one-fourth (1-1/4) inches minimum
to two (2) inches maximum.
   (G)   Wood. All wood components in contact with the ground shall be treated
and approved for ground contact. Wood exposed to weather must be pressure
treated for outdoor use.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.256 SKIRTING.
   (A)   For health, safety, energy conservation and aesthetic purposes,
skirting and ventilation with an access door underneath all living areas is
required within 60 days of foundation approval.
   (B)   Skirting shall be maintained in a good state of repair.
   (C)   Lattice, treated or untreated wood or vinyl is not an acceptable
skirting material.
   (D)   Skirting must have an access door (minimum 18 inches by 24 inches) and
must be properly ventilated. The minimum net ventilation openings shall not be
less than one (1) square foot for each 150 square feet of under floor space
area. One (1) vent shall be within three (3) feet of each corner.
   (E)   Acceptable skirting is brick or stone and must have a properly
installed concrete footing.
   (F)   Skirting non-compliance. Failure to skirt the manufactured home within
the required time may result in the issuance of fines.
   (G)   All towing apparatus (wheels, axle, tongue) must be removed before a
C.O. is issued and may be stored and hidden under the home and screened.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.257 DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING.
   All driveways and parking must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   A designated driveway entrance from the street;
   (B)   A required minimum of two (2) parking spaces. Tandem parking is
prohibited; and
   (C)   Made of gravel, concrete, screening, or mulch.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.258 REMOVAL OF DEBRIS.
   The under-floor grade shall be cleaned of all vegetation and organic
material. All wood forms used for placing concrete shall be removed before a
building is occupied or used for any purpose. All construction materials shall
be removed before a building is occupied or used for any purpose.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.259 PROHIBITED.
   Camper, recreational vehicles, sheds or storage building are not considered
mobile homes and are prohibited from hooking up sewer, electrical or plumbing
for more than three (3) days for cleaning or testing purposes only.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.260 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile homes must be five (5) years or newer.
   (B)   Mobile homes must be a muted earth tone in color. ARB approval is
required.
   (C)   Property must be a minimum of one-half (1/2) acre. A plot plan is
required.
   (D)   A service pole must be located behind the mobile home and not be
visible from road.
   (E)   Rented mobile homes must be occupied by no more than three (3)
unrelated adults.
   (F) The setup operator must have a business license and a business permit.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.261 FEES.
   (A)   Mobile home registration and fees: $130.
   (B)   Mobile home power pole (if required): $70.
   (C)   Re-inspections: Building permit fees apply.
(Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be
fined not more than $500 plus assessments and surcharges or imprisoned not more
than 30 days, or both.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(1985 Code, § 6-181) (Am. Ord. 2019-09, passed 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 153:
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Established
   
153.002   Composition
   
153.003   Compensation
   
153.004   Removal of members
   
153.005   Organization and rules of procedure
   
153.006   Public hearings
Organization
   
153.020   Rules
   
153.021   Officers
   
153.022   Chairperson
   
153.023   Vice-chairperson
   
153.024   Secretary
Meetings
   
153.035   Time and place
   
153.036   Agenda
   
153.037   Quorum
   
153.038   Rules of order
   
153.039   Voting
   
153.040   Conduct
Public Hearings
   
153.055   Notice
   
153.056   Procedure
Records
   
153.070   Minutes
   
153.071   Reports
   
153.072   Attendance
Review Procedure
   
153.085   Zoning amendments
   
153.086   Plats
   
153.087   Comprehensive plan
   
153.088   Reconsideration
Finances
   
153.100   Budget
   
153.101   Expenditures
   
153.102   Personnel
Adoption and Amendment
   
153.115   Adoption
   
153.116   Amendment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Planning Commission for the town, which shall
have the powers and duties as provided in S.C. Code Title 6, Chapter 29, §§ 6-
29-310, et seq.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 153.002 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have a minimum of five (5) to a maximum
of seven (7) members appointed by the Town Council for terms of three (3)
years, staggered so that one-third (1/3) of the members shall have terms
expiring in each year.
   (B)   Members shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified.
   (C)   No member of the Planning Commission shall hold an elected public
office with the town.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 153.003 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation. Actual
expenses incurred in the performance of official duties may be reimbursed from
budgeted funds pursuant to reimbursement policies and procedures of the Town
Council for the employees of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 153.004 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Planning Commission may be removed at any time by Town
Council for cause. The existence of cause shall be discussed by the Council in
executive session as permitted by the Freedom of Information Act, S.C. Code §
30-4-70(a)(1), and the determination of removal shall be by vote in public
session declaring a vacancy in the position without a statement of cause. Any
fact which, in the discretion of the Council, is deemed to adversely affect the
public interest, including lack of attendance at meetings, may constitute
cause.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 153.005 ORGANIZATION AND RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission shall organize, elect officers, and adopt rules of
procedure as required by S.C. Code § 6-29-360.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
§ 153.006 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission shall hold all public hearings on amendments to the
zoning ordinance and map pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-760(A).
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-05, passed 7-16-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-07,
passed 7-16-2019)
ORGANIZATION
§ 153.020 RULES.
   These rules of procedure are adopted pursuant to S.C. Code § 6-29-360 for
the South Congaree Planning Commission which consists of members appointed by
Town Council.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.021 OFFICERS.
   The officers of the Commission shall be a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
elected for one (1) year terms at the first meeting of the Commission in each
calendar year. The Commission shall appoint a member of the staff of the town
as secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.022 CHAIRPERSON.
   The Chairperson shall be a voting member of the Commission and shall:
   (A)   Call meetings of the Commission;
   (B)   Preside at meetings and hearings;
   (C)   Act as spokesperson for the Commission;
   (D)   Sign documents for the Commission;
   (E)   Transmit reports and recommendations to Council; and
   (F)   Perform other duties approved by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.023 VICE-CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Vice-Cairperson shall exercise the duties of the Chairperson in
the absence, disability or disqualification of the Chairperson.
   (B)   In the absence of the Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson, an acting
Chairperson shall be elected by the members present.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.024 SECRETARY.
   The secretary shall:
   (A)   Provide notice of meetings;
   (B)   Assist the Chairperson in preparation of agenda;
   (C)   Keep minutes of meetings and hearings;
   (D)   Maintain Commission records as public records;
   (E)   Attend to Commission correspondence; and
   (F)   Perform other duties normally carried out by a secretary.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
MEETINGS
§ 153.035 TIME AND PLACE.
   An annual schedule of regular meetings shall be adopted, published and
posted at the designated town office in December of each year. Special meetings
may be called by the Chairperson upon 24 hours notice, posted and delivered to
all members and local news media. Meetings shall be held at the place stated in
the notices, and shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.036 AGENDA.
   A written agenda shall be furnished by the secretary to each member of the
Commission and the news media, and shall be posted at least five (5) days prior
to each regular meeting, and at least 24 hours prior to a special meeting.
Items may be added to the agenda at a meeting by majority vote.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.037 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. A
quorum shall be present before any business is conducted other than
rescheduling the meeting.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.038 RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the conduct of meetings except as
otherwise provided by these rules of procedure.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.039 VOTING.
   A member must be present to vote. Each member shall vote on every question
unless disqualified by law. The question of disqualification shall be decided
by the member affected, who shall announce the reason for disqualification,
give it to the Chairperson in writing, have it placed in the minutes, and
refrain from deliberating or voting on the question.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.040 CONDUCT.
   Except for public hearings, no person shall speak at a Commission meeting
unless invited to do so by the Commission.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
PUBLIC HEARINGS
§ 153.055 NOTICE.
   The secretary shall give the notice required by statute or ordinance for all
public hearings conducted by the Commission. Members of the public desiring to
be heard shall give written notice to the secretary prior to commencement of
the hearing.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.056 PROCEDURE.
   In matters brought before the Commission for public hearing which were
initiated by an applicant, the applicant, his or her agent or attorney shall be
heard first, members of the public next, and staff next. The applicant shall
have the right to reply last. No person may speak for more than five (5)
minutes without consent of the Commission. No person speaking at a public
hearing shall be subject to cross-examination. All questions shall be posed by
members of the Commission. In matters not initiated by an applicant, members of
the public shall speak in the order in which requests were received, or in an
order as the Commission shall determine.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
RECORDS
§ 153.070 MINUTES.
   (A)   The secretary shall record all meetings and hearings of the Commission
on tape which shall be preserved until final action is taken on all matters
presented.
   (B)   The secretary shall prepare minutes of each meeting for approval by
the Commission at the next regular meeting.
   (C)   Minutes shall be maintained as public records.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.071 REPORTS.
   The secretary shall assist in the preparation and forwarding of all reports
and recommendations of the Commission in appropriate form. Copies of all
notices, correspondence, reports and forms shall be maintained as public
records.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.072 ATTENDANCE.
   The minutes shall show the members in attendance at each meeting and the
reason for absence submitted by any member. The Commission shall recommend to
the governing body the removal for cause of any member who is absent from three
(3) consecutive meetings without adequate reason.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
REVIEW PROCEDURE
§ 153.085 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   Proposed zoning text and district amendments shall be considered and
recommendations shall be forwarded to the governing body within 30 days after
receipt of the proposed amendments, unless additional time is given by the
governing body. When so authorized, the Planning Commission shall conduct any
required public hearing prior to making a recommendation.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.086 PLATS.
   (A)   Plats submitted for review pursuant to land development regulations
shall be reviewed by designated staff members who may approve for recording
plats of existing lots of record, minor subdivisions of land which meet all
zoning requirements, and subdivisions which are exempt from regulation pursuant
to S.C. Code § 6-29-1110(2). The Commission shall be informed in writing of all
staff approvals at the next regular meeting, and a public record of the actions
shall be maintained. All other plats shall be subject to review and approval by
the Commission.
   (B)   Note: This process may be included in the land development ordinance
provisions.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.087 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   All zoning and land development regulation amendments shall be reviewed
first for conformity with the comprehensive plan. Conflicts with the
comprehensive plan shall be noted in any report to the governing body on a
proposed amendment. The elements of the comprehensive plan shall be reviewed
and updated on a schedule adopted by the Commission meeting the requirements of
S.C. Code § 6-29-510(E).
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.088 RECONSIDERATION.
   The Commission may reconsider any review when so requested by the governing
body, or when an applicant brings to the attention of the Commission new facts,
a mistake of fact in the original review, correction of clerical error, or
matters not the fault of the applicant which affect the result of the review.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
FINANCES
§ 153.100 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Commission shall submit written recommendations to the governing
body for funding in the annual budget.
   (B)   The recommendations shall include an explanation and justification for
proposed expenditures.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.101 EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Budgeted funds shall be expended only for approved purposes in
accordance with financial policies and procedures set by the governing body,
including procurement rules.
   (B)   Upon adoption of a budget by the governing body, the Commission, may
adopt an authorization for specified expenditures by designated staff members
within the limits provided.
   (C)   Reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the performance of
official duties approved in advance by the Commission shall be made to members
of the Commission and staff upon submission of vouchers supported by receipts.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.102 PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The Commission shall employ the staff and consultants as may be
authorized and funded by budget or make recommendations for staff members to be
employed by the town.
   (B)   Consultants shall be engaged by majority vote of the Commission after
review of proposals invited by public notice and mail, and personal interviews
with applicants by the Commission, or a committee of Commission members and
staff.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT
§ 153.115 ADOPTION.
   These rules were adopted by vote of a majority of the members of the
Commission at a regular public meeting on 3-18-1999.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 153.116 AMENDMENT.
   These rules may be amended at any regular meeting of the Commission by
majority vote of the members of the Commission at least seven (7) days after
the written amendment is delivered to all members.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
CHAPTER 154:
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s comprehensive plan is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
CHAPTER 155:
DROUGHTS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Purpose and intent
   
155.02   Proclamation to be issued
   
155.03   Proclamation becomes effective
   
155.04   Definitions
Non-Essential Water Use
   
155.15   Non-essential water use
Responses to Moderate, Severe and Extreme Drought Alert Phases
   
155.30   Proclamations
   
155.31   Moderate drought alert phase
   
155.32   Severe drought alert phase
   
155.33   Extreme drought alert phase
Enforcement
   
155.45   New water service connection
   
155.46   Water rates
   
155.47   Rationing
   
155.48   Enforcement
   
155.49   Variances
   
155.50   Status of the chapter
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To achieve the greatest public benefit from domestic water use,
sanitation, and fire protection, and to provide water for other purposes in an
equitable manner, the Town of South Congaree adopts the following regulations
and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water.
   (B)   This chapter is hereby declared necessary for the preservation of
public health, safety and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by
the Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 13-1)
§ 155.02 PROCLAMATION TO BE ISSUED.
   (A)   Whenever in the judgment of the governing body of South Congaree it
becomes necessary to conserve water in the service area, due to drought, the
town is authorized to issue a proclamation that existing drought conditions
prevent fulfillment of the usual water-use demands.
   (B)   The proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the water supply
to the extent the water-use for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection
and other essential needs become endangered.
(1985 Code, § 13-2)
§ 155.03 PROCLAMATION BECOMES EFFECTIVE.
   (A)   Immediately upon the issuance of a proclamation, regulations and
restrictions set forth under this chapter become effective and remain in effect
until the water shortage is terminated and the proclamation rescinded.
   (B)   Water uses, regulated or prohibited under this chapter, are considered
to be non-essential and continuation of uses during times of water shortage are
deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the offender to penalties
under §
155.99.
(1985 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools, and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. Water use integral to the production of
goods and/or services by any establishment having financial profit as their
primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
town or any privately owned water system.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household purposes
such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
      (1)   MODERATE DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches the -1.50 to -2.99
range and moderate drought conditions have been verified by best available
information, and the conditions indicate this situation is expected to persist.
      (2)   SEVERE DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches the -3.00 to -3.99
range and severe drought conditions have been verified by best available
information.
      (3)   EXTREME DROUGHT. When the Palmer Index reaches or falls below -4.00
and extreme drought conditions are verified by best available information.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives, created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
shortage within drought management area and making recommendations for action
to the South Carolina Water Resource Commission and/or the Governor.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for fire fighting, maintaining
instream flow requirements and to satisfy federal, state or local public health
and safety requirements.
   EVEN NUMBERED ADDRESSES. Street addresses, box numbers or rural route
numbers in sero (0), two (2), four (4), six (6), eight (8), or letter A - M and
locations without addresses.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, public median and rights of way, churches and places
of worship, water utilities, and other lands, buildings and organizations
within the public domain.
   LANDSCAPE WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights of way and medians.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural route numbers
ending in one (1), three (3), five (5), seven (7), nine (9) or letters N - Z.
   PALMER INDEX. A measure of the severity of a drought, or wet spell, in an
area. Dry conditions are associated with negative value, wet conditions with
positive values, and normal conditions have a value of zero.
   WATER SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate available water to meet normal demands due
to lower than normal precipitation, reduced stream flows or soil causes water
supplies to be less than usual.
(1985 Code, Ch. 13, division 2)
NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE
§ 155.15 NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE.
   (A)   Non-essential water use categories, other than essential water use,
may be curtailed during severe or extreme drought.
   (B)   Some examples of non-essential water uses follow:
      (1)   Residential and institutional.
         (a)   Washing down sidewalks, walkways,driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard surfaced areas;
         (b)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (c)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
         (d)   Washing any motor bike, motor vehicle, boat, trailer, airplane
or other vehicle in public or private garages or elsewhere;
         (e)   Maintaining fountains, reflection ponds and decorative water
bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except where necessary to support
aquatic life;
         (f)   Filling or maintaining public or private swimming pools; and
         (g)   Sprinkling lawns, plants, trees, or other flora on private or
public property, except as otherwise provided under this chapter.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial.
         (a)   Serving water routinely in restaurants;
         (b)   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and
lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
         (c)   Irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds, except
as otherwise provided under this chapter;
         (d)   Obtaining water from hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills or for any purpose other than fire fighting;
         (e)   Serving customers who have been given a ten (10) day notice to
repair one (1) or more leaks and have failed to comply; and
         (f)   Expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new irrigated
agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when required by
site design review process.
(1985 Code, § 13-20)
RESPONSES TO MODERATE, SEVERE
AND EXTREME DROUGHT ALERT PHASES
§ 155.30 PROCLAMATIONS.
   (A)   Levels of drought, as set forth in the South Carolina Drought Response
Act, being S.C. Code §§ 49-23-10 et seq., are moderate, severe, and extreme.
Proclamations issued by the South Carolina Water Resource Commission shall
coordinate an appropriate response to the level of drought which exists.
   (B)   Proclamations setting forth responses to the various drought alert
phases shall be made by the Town Council and are to be based upon drought
monitoring data, recommendations, declarations, and/or notifications supplied
by the regional drought response committee or the South Carolina Water
Resources Commission.
(1985 Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.31 MODERATE DROUGHT ALERT PHASE.
   (A)   Notification. If conditions indicate that a moderate drought condition
is present and is expected to persist, the Water Resources Commission shall
activate the drought information center and notify municipal and county
governments in the affected drought areas by certified mail. The Commission
will also issue press releases concerning the drought conditions to the news
media.
   (B)   Goal.
      (1)   A 15% voluntary water use reduction for agricultural, commercial,
industrial, institutional and electric power generation purposes.
      (2)   A 30% voluntary water use reduction for residential customers.
   (C)   General responses.
      (1)   Issue a public notice of drought conditions on water supply and
demand in a newspaper of general circulation within the affected community and
region. This statement shall include a list of non-essential water uses (see §
155.15).
      (2)   Institute an increased water supply system maintenance effort to
identify and correct water leaks.
      (3)   Encourage customers of the town/privately owned water systems to
comply with the listed voluntary water-use restrictions in all categories while
moderate drought conditions exist.
   (D)   Water-use restrictions.
      (1)   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock. Implement conservation
techniques, explore different water savings methods, and use alternative
sources.
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional. Reduce aesthetic,
domestic, landscaping, and water-based recreational activities such as swimming
pools, water slides and other related water activities.
      (3)   Electric power generation. Electric power generation.
      (4)   Residential. Reduce water use to 75 gallons per person per day, and
a maximum of 300 gallons per household per day. Reduce domestic, landscaping,
and water-based recreational activities such as swimming pools, water slides
and other related water activities.
(1985 Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.32 SEVERE DROUGHT ALERT PHASE.
   (A)   Notification. A drought of this severity usually requires an official
declaration and implementation of mandatory water use restrictions by the South
Carolina Water Resources Commission. In these cases, the Commission will notify
municipal and county governments in the affected drought areas by certified
mail, and issue press releases concerning the drought conditions to the news
media.
   (B)   Goa1.
      (1)   A 15% water use reduction for agricultural, commercial, industrial,
institutional and electric power generation purposes.
      (2)   A 30% water use reduction for residential customers.
   (C)   General responses.
      (1)   Issue a public notice of drought conditions on water supply and
demand in a newspaper of general circulation within the affected community and
region. This statement shall include a list of water use curtailment measures.
      (2)   Require customer of the town/privately owned water systems to
comply with the listed water-use restrictions in all categories while severe
drought conditions exist.
   (D)   Water-use restrictions.
      (1)   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock. Implement conservation
techniques, explore different water saving methods, and use alternative
sources. Restrict irrigation use from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and prohibit water
runoff.
      (2)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional. Prohibit aesthetic water
use. Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary for maintaining
health and safety. Limit water-based recreational activities to new facilities
that require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related
water activities. Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices, and water runoff in landscape
design and maintenance. Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday
for odd-numbered addresses, and Thursday and Sunday for even-numbered
addresses.
      (3)   Electric power generation. Electric power generation.
      (4)   Residential. Restrict water use to 75 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 300 gallons per household per day. Limit water-based
recreational activities to new facilities that require filling such as swimming
pools, water slides and other related water activities. Use low-volume hand-
held applications only and prohibit sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices
and water runoff in landscape design and maintenance. Restrict landscape
watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-numbered addresses, and Thursday and
Sunday for even numbered addresses.
(1985 Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.33 EXTREME DROUGHT ALERT PHASE.
   (A)   Notification. The South Carolina Water Resources Commission will
notify municipal and county governments in the affected drought areas by
certified mail, and issue press releases concerning the drought conditions to
the news media. Water-use restrictions imposed during extreme drought
conditions are mandatory.
   (B)   Goal.
      (1)   A 15% water use reduction for agricultural, commercial, industrial
and electric power generation purposes.
      (2)   A 30% water use reduction for institutional and residential
customers.
   (C)   General responses.
      (1)   Issue a public notice of drought conditions on water supply and
demand in a newspaper of general circulation within the affected community and
region. This statement shall include a list of water use curtailment measures.
      (2)   Require customers of the town/privately owned water systems to
comply with the listed water-use restrictions in all categories while extreme
drought conditions exist.
   (D)   Water-use restrictions.
      (1)   Agriculture, irrigation and livestock. Implement conservation
techniques, explore different water saving methods and use alternative sources.
Restrict irrigation use from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and prohibit water runoff
and issue press drought conditions use restrictions drought conditions
      (2)   Commercial and industrial. Prohibit aesthetic water use. Reduce
domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to maintain health and safety.
Prohibit water-based recreational activities that require filling such as
swimming pools, water slides and other related water activities. Use low-volume
hand-held applications only and prohibit sprinklers, other remote broadcast
devices, and water runoff in landscape design and maintenance. Restrict
landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-numbered addresses, and
Thursday and Sunday for numbered addresses.
      (3)   Electric power generation. Electric power generation.
      (4)   Institutional. Prohibit aesthetic water use. Reduce domestic water
use to minimum levels necessary to maintain health and safety. Prohibit water-
based recreational activities that require filling such as swimming pools,
water slides and other related water activities. Use low-volume hand-held
applications only and prohibit sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and
water runoff in landscape design and maintenance. Restrict landscape watering
to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-numbered addresses, and Thursday and Sunday
for even-numbered addresses.
      (5)   Residential. Restrict water use to 55 gallons per person per day,
and a maximum of 220 gallons per household per day. Reduce domestic water use
to minimum levels necessary to maintain health and safety. Prohibit water-based
recreational activities that require filling such as swimming pools, water
slides, and other related water activities. Use low-volume hand-held
applications only and prohibit sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices, and
water runoff in landscape design and maintenance. Restrict landscape watering
to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-numbered addresses, and Thursday and Sunday
for even-numbered addresses.
(1985 Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
155.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.45 NEW WATER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Correspondence regarding water availability, pipeline extension
agreements, and applications requesting service, received and dated after the
date of this chapter, shall include conditions relating to water shortages.
   (B)   No application for new, additional, further expanded or an increase in
size of water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains or other water service facilities of any kind shall be allowed, approved
or installed unless the action is in compliance with provisions of this
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 13-40) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.46 WATER RATES.
   (A)   In the event of an extreme drought related water shortage, the Town of
South Congaree is hereby authorized to monitor water use and limit households
to 500 gallons per household member per day. Domestic water use above this
limit will be subject to a surcharge of $0.50 per gallon.
   (B)   Institutional, commercial, industrial, and recreational water users
will be subject to water use surcharges of $5 per 1,000 gallons of water used
if the Town Council deems that adequate conservation measures have not been
implemented.
(1985 Code, § 13-41) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.47 RATIONING.
   In the event that a drought threatens the preservation of public health and
safety, the Town of South Congaree is hereby authorized to ration water.
(1985 Code, § 13-42) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.48 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Law officer of the Town of South Congaree police force shall, in
addition to duties imposed by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Management employees of the Town of South Congaree, Department of
Public Works and Fire Departments have the duty, and are hereby authorized to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have the power and authority
to issue written notices to appear when violations of this chapter occur during
any declared moderate, severe or extreme drought or water shortage.
(1985 Code, § 13-44)
§ 155.49 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Persons not capable of immediate water use reduction, or curtailment,
because of equipment damage or other extreme circumstances, shall commence
gradual reduction of water use within 24 hours of the declaration of water use
curtailment/reduction and shall apply for a variance from curtailment.
   (B)   Persons requesting exemption from the provisions of this chapter shall
file a petition for variance with the Municipal Clerk within ten (10) days
after the curtailment becomes effective.
   (C)   When the Drought Chapter has been invoked by the Town Council by an
action independent of the Water Resources Commission, all petitions for
variances shall be reviewed by the Town Council. When the Drought Chapter has
been invoked by the town acting on the direction of the Water Resources
Commission, persons using less than 25,000 gallons of water per day shall file
a petition for variance with the Town of South Congaree, and persons using in
excess of 25,000 gallons of water per day shall file a petition for variance
with the Water Resources Commission within ten (10) days or the effective date
of water use curtailment or reduction. The Water Resources Commission shall
respond to requests for variance within five (5) days of receipt of information
or within 20 days of declaration of the curtailment, whichever comes first.
   (D)   Petitions shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
      (2)   Purpose of water use;
      (3)   Specific provision from which the petitioner is requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration adversely
affects the petitioner;
      (5)   Description of the relief desired;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Economic value of the water use;
      (8)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner complies
with chapter;
      (9)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
      (10)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from which
variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
      (11)   Other pertinent information.
   (E)   In order for a variance to be granted, petitioner must show one (1) or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Compliance with the chapter cannot be technically accomplished
during the duration of the water shortage; and/or
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (F)   The Mayor may, in writing, grant temporary variances for existing
water uses otherwise prohibited under the chapter if it is determined that
failure to grant the variances would cause an emergency condition adversely
affecting health, sanitation or fire protection for the public or the
petitioner and if one (1) or more of the aforementioned conditions is met. The
governing body of the Town of South Congaree shall ratify or revoke the
variance at their next scheduled meeting. Any variance so ratified may be
revoked by later action of the governing body of the Town of South Congaree.
   (G)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this chapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
   (H)   Variances granted by the Town Council shall be subject to the
following conditions, unless waived or modified by the Town Council.
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the water shortage no longer
exists, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(1985 Code, § 13-45)
§ 155.50 STATUS OF THE CHAPTER.
   In the event that any portion of this chapter is held to be unconstitutional
for any reason, the remaining portions of the chapter shall not be affected.
   The provisions of this chapter shall prevail and control in the event of any
inconsistency between this chapter and other rules and regulations of the Town
of South Congaree.
(1985 Code, § 13-46)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise stated herein, violators of any provision of this
chapter shall be penalized.
 
Violation                                            Classification Penalty
First offense                                        Infraction     $100
Second offense                                       Infraction     $100
Third and subsequent offense within the same drought Misdemeanor    $200
period
 
   (B)   The aforementioned fines and penalties may be in lieu of, or in
addition to, any other penalty provided by law.
   (C)   After issuing one (1) warning by certified mail, the town/privately
owned water system may disconnect the water service of any person or customer
whenever it is determined that the person has failed to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. Services disconnected under these circumstances
shall be restored only upon payment of a reconnection charge, hereby
established at $15, and any other costs incurred by the town/privately owned
water system in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurances must be
given to the town.
(1985 Code, § 13-43)
CHAPTER 156:
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
156.001   Statutory authorization
   
156.002   Findings of fact
   
156.003   Statement of purpose
   
156.004   Objectives
Definitions
   
156.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
156.030   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
156.031   Establishment of development permit
   
156.032   Compliance
   
156.033   Interpretation
   
156.034   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
156.050   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
156.051   Permits procedure
   
156.052   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
156.053   Adoption of letter of map revisions
   
156.054   Administrative procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
156.065   General standards
   
156.066   Specific standards
   
156.067   Standards for streams without established base flood elevations and
floodways
   
156.068   Standards for streams with estimated base flood elevations but
without floodways
   
156.069   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
Variance Procedures
   
156.080   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
156.081   Right to appeal
   
156.082   Historic structures
   
156.083   Functionally dependent uses
   
156.084   Agricultural structures
   
156.085   Considerations
   
156.086   Findings
   
156.087   Floodways
   
156.088   Conditions
Legal Status Provisions
   
156.100   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing code
   
156.101   Effect upon outstanding building permits
 
   
156.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 156.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of South Carolina has in South Carolina Code of
Laws, Title 5 and Title 6 and amendments thereto, delegated the responsibility
to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Town
Council of South Congaree, South Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. I) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas of South Congaree are subject to
periodic inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. I) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health, minimize
property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to minimize
public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that uses
vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected
against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or
erosion hazards or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of flood waters; and to control filling, grading,
dredging and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion. This
chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. I) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.004 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and to ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area. The provisions of this chapter are intended to minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities, such as water and gas mains; electric,
telephone, and sewer lines; and streets and bridges located in the floodplain;
and to prevent prolonged business interruptions.
   (B)   An important floodplain management objective of this chapter is to
minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects and
rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions, such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation
of peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities, and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. I) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Structures that are located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure. Accessory structures should constitute a
minimal investment, may not be used for human habitation, and should be
designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of accessory
structures are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. Additions to existing building shall
comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to whether the
addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or load- bearing
wall is provided between the addition and the existing building, the addition
(s) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with the standards
for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, o raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. Agricultural structures are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one (1) to three (3) feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community’s public
health and safety; is essential to the orderly functioning of a community; can
store or produce highly volatile, toxic or water-reactive materials; or can
house occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or
injury. Examples of critical development include jails, hospitals, schools,
fire stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants,
and gas/oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns, piers or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas unless
there is no practical alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before December 2, 1988.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before April 6, 1987.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for serving
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water- soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above- grade use, is not flood-resistant.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious but dimensionally unstable are not
acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence
are not flood-resistant. Refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damaged-
Resistant Materials Requirements, dated August 2008 and available from the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced
therein, are acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places, a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI); or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; and/or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
      (5)   Some structures or districts listed on the state or local
inventories may not be historic as cited above but have been included on the
inventories because it was believed that the structures or districts have the
potential for meeting the historic structure
criteria of the DOI. In order for these structures to meet NFIP historic
structure criteria, it must be demonstrated and evidenced that the South
Carolina Department of Archives and History has individually determined that
the structure or district meets DOI historic structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under Section 1361 of the Flood Insurance Act.
Provides coverage for the payment of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply
with state or community floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood
event in which a building has been declared substantially or repetitively
damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE and A1-A30 zone, it must meet the requirements of §
156.065(D). If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE
and V1-V30 zone, it must meet the requirements of §
162.11.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any deck support, exterior walls of a building or proposed building
walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North
American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum to which the base flood
elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). Elevation reference point set by
National Geodetic survey based on mean sea level; as corrected in 1929.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start for construction commenced
on or after April 6, 1987. The term also includes any subsequent improvements
to such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after April 6,
1987.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control used as the
reference datum on flood insurance rate maps; as corrected in 1988.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood-related damages on two (2) occasions during a ten (10) year
period ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in
which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or
exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each such flood
event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. The act provides
that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or local
authority to be in violation of state or local ordinances.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. The first place on the oceanfront where plants,
such as sea oats, hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act. (Pub.L. No. 97-348). The
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180
days of the permit date. The actual start means the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure (including a manufactured home) on a
site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings, installation of piles,
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary
forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
buildings, such as garages or shed not occupied as dwelling units or not part
of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before- damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred. Such repairs may be undertaken successively and their costs counted
cumulatively. See SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications of
which have been identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are the
minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (2)   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five (5) years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvement of the streets,
utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets, utilities
or pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. II) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.030 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of South Congaree as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study dated July 5, 2018, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation, any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study for the
unincorporated areas of Lexington County, with accompanying map and other data,
are adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.031 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.032 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.033 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.034 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the area will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the Town of South Congaree or by any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.050 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
the provisions of this chapter.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. IV) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.051 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Floodplain
Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any development
activities, and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to
scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in
question; existing or proposed structures; and the location of fill materials,
storage areas, and drainage facilities.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either the duties and responsibilities of the
Floodplain Administrator of§
156.052 or the standards for subdivision proposals of §
156.066 and the standards for streams without estimated base flood elevations
and floodways of §
156.067. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by him or her.
The plot plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either the
duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator of §
156.052, the standards for subdivision proposals of §
156.066(L), or the standards for streams without estimated base flood
elevations and floodways of §
156.067.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided as set forth in §
156.030 or the duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator of §
156.052(L) applies, the application for a development permit within the flood
hazard area shall show:
         (a)   The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be floodproofed in accordance with the
non- residential construction requirements of §
156.066(B), the elevation in relation to mean sea level to which the structure
will be floodproofed.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §
156.030 or the duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator of §
156.052 applies, then the provisions in the standards for streams without
estimated base flood elevations and floodways of §
156.067 must be met.
      (4)   Alteration of watercourse. Where any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development, the application for a
development permit shall include a description of the extent of watercourse
alteration or relocation, an engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-
carrying capacity of the altered or relocated watercourse is maintained, and a
map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
         (c)   Certifications.
      (1)   Floodproofing certification. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered professional engineer
or architect that the nonresidential floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in the nonresidential construction requirements of §§
156.066(B) and
156.069(B)(2).
      (2)   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation or
floodproofing certification is required after the lowest floor is completed. As
soon as possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further
vertical construction or floodproofing by any construction means (whichever is
applicable) commences, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the lowest
floor or floodproofed elevation (whichever is applicable) as built in relation
to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by him or her. Any work done prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the floor elevation survey data submitted. The permit holder, immediately and
prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed, shall correct
deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the survey or failure
to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work
order for the project.
      (3)   V-zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE,
or V1-30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional
engineer or    architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction
and substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard
areas outlined in § 162.11.5.
      (4)   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development, a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, in accordance
with South Carolina law, shall certify (according to the requirements of §
165.05.2a, 2b and 2c) that the development is built in accordance with the
submitted plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. IV) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.052 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Requirement of federal and/or state permits. Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (C)   Watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required watercourse alterations
in division (C)(1) of this subsection, written reports of maintenance records
must be maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the
altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying
capacity is maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive
program of periodic inspections, and routine channel clearing and dredging or
other related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of
maintenance activities, frequency of performance, and the local official
responsible for maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA
inspection.
      (3)   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse, floodway, or base flood elevation for which a detailed Flood
Insurance Study has been developed, the applicant shall apply for and must
receive approval for a conditional letter of map revision with the Federal
Emergency Management Agency prior to the start of construction.
      (4)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration to a watercourse
referenced in the certification requirements of §
156.051(C)(4), the applicant shall submit an as-built certification provided by
a registered professional engineer to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
156.066(E) are met.
   (E)   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.
   (F)   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
   (G)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in accordance
with administrative procedures outlined in §
156.051(B)(2) or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in §
162.11.5.
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation in relation to mean sea level to which
the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
156.051(B)(1).
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non- residential construct requirements outlined in §
156.066(B).
      (4)   A registered and professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance
with the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements
outlined in § 162.11.4, § 162.11.6, and § 162.11.8.
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter.
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table,
etc.) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to FEMA as per
the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
156.066(G)(2).
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and
floodway data has not been provided in accordance with §
156.030, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize best available base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, including data developed pursuant to the standards for subdivision
proposals outlined in §
156.066(L), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft, and final flood insurance studies constitutes best
available data from a federal, state, or other source. Data must be developed
using hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of the NFIP approved
model. If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1,
Part 67.5 and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (K)   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site, the site information
takes precedence when the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the BFE. The
property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA. The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a copy of the letter of map
amendment issued from FEMA in the permit file.
   (L)   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
156.054(A).
   (M)   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures outlined in §
156.054.
   (N)   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection.
   (O)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the South Carolina Department of
Natural Resources Land, Water and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for
the National Flood Insurance Program, within six (6) months of any annexations
or detachments that include special flood hazard areas.
   (P)   Federally funded development. President Carter issued Executive Order
11988, Floodplain Management, in May 1977. E.O. 11988 directs federal agencies
to assert a leadership role in reducing flood losses and losses to
environmental values served by floodplains. Proposed developments must go
through an eight (8) step review process. Evidence of compliance with the
executive order must be submitted as part of the permit review process.
   (Q)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure using FEMA’s Residential Substantial Damage
Estimator (RSDE) software to determine if the damage equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   (R)   Substantial improvement determinations. Perform an assessment of
permit applications for improvements or repairs to be made to a building or
structure that equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the start of construction. Cost of work counted for determining if and
when substantial improvement to a structure occurs shall be cumulative for a
period of five (5) years. If the improvement project is conducted in phases,
the total of all costs associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance
of the first permit, shall be utilized to determine whether substantial
improvement will occur. The market values shall be determined by one (1) of the
following methods:
      (1)   The current assessed building value as determined by the county’s
Assessor’s Office or the value of an appraisal performed by a licensed
appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six (6) months;
      (2)   One (1) or more certified appraisals from a registered professional
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of South Carolina. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence; or
      (3)   Real estate purchase contracts held within six (6) months prior to
the date of the application for a permit.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. IV) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.053 ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS (LOMR).
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in §
156.030 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.054 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The Floodplain Administrator may revoke and
require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder in
writing that states the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The Floodplain Administrator and each member of
his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon presentation of
proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial
jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations on the property he or
she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give him or her written notice by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue such
order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
divisions (F)(1), (F)(2), and (F)(3) of this section, the Floodplain
Administrator shall find that the building or development is in violation of
the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, he or she shall make an order in writing
to the owner requiring the owner to remedy the violation within such period,
not less than 60 days, the Floodplain Administrator may prescribe; provided
that where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to
life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in
such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten
(10) days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal,
the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing
body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following
an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared
in violation of this chapter and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall notify
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate a Section 1316 of
the National Flood insurance Act of 1968 action against the structure upon the
finding that the violator refuses to bring the violation into compliance with
this chapter. Once a violation has been remedied, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the Section 1316 be rescinded.
   (K)   The following documents are incorporated by reference and may be used
by the Floodplain Administrator to provide further guidance and interpretation
of this chapter, as found on FEMA’s website at www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55, Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA technical bulletins; and
      (3)   All FEMA floodplain management bulletins, including:
         (a)   FEMA 348, Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage;
         (b)   FEMA 499, Home Builder's Guide to Coastal Construction
Technical; and
         (c)   Fact sheets.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 156.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Development may not occur in the special flood hazard area (SFHA) where
alternative locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved.
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures
cannot be located out of the SFHA and that encroachments onto the SFHA are
minimized. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   All permit applications are reviewed to determine whether the proposed
building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure;
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with flood-resistant materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage
in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements, dated August 2008 and available from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (E)   Critical developments shall be elevated to the 500-year flood
elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical flood elevation, where
records are available and whichever is greater. If no data exists establishing
the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known historical flood elevation,
the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis
that generates 500-year flood elevation data;
   (F)   Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air conditioning
equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall be designed
and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of the base flood plus two (2) feet;
   (G)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (H) New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters;
   (I) On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (J)   All gas or liquid storage tanks, either located above ground or
buried, shall be anchored to prevent flotation and lateral movement resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads;
   (K) Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter. This includes
post- FIRM development and structures;
   (L)   Nonconforming buildings or uses may not be enlarged, replaced, or
rebuilt unless such enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter. Provided, however, that
nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of an existing building or structure located totally or partially
within the floodway; provided that the bulk of the building or structure below
base flood elevation in the floodway is not increased; and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all other requirements of this
chapter; and
   (M)   A building must meet the specific standards for floodplain
construction outlined in §
156.066 as well as any applicable Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
requirements. The ADA is not justification for issuing a variance or otherwise
waiving these requirements. The cost of the improvements required to meet the
ADA provisions shall be included in the costs of the improvements for
calculating substantial improvement.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. V) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard (Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, V, and VE)
where base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in §
156.030 or outlined in the duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain
Administrator of §
156.052, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than two (2) feet above the base flood
elevation. No basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls
be used to elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the
elevated building requirements in §
156.066(D).
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than two (2) feet above the level of
the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in §
156.066(D). No basements are permitted. Structures located in A- Zones may be
floodproofed in lieu of elevation provided that all areas of the structure
below the required elevation are watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of
buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the Official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in § 165.05.2a. A variance may be considered for wet-floodproofing
agricultural structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
156.084. Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
156.084 must meet the non-residential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
Floodplain Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and notification of
the annual exercise shall be provided to it.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or sub-division, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than two (2) feet above the base
flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for residential construction in §
156.066(A) must be elevated so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home
is elevated no lower than two (2) feet above the base flood elevation and must
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement. For the purpose of this requirement,
manufactured homes must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement in accordance with Section 40-29-10 of the South Carolina Manufactured
Housing Board Regulations, as amended. Additionally, when the elevation
requirement would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
Emergency Preparedness Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited
storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to preclude finished space and be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed all of the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings on different walls having
a total net area of not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one (1) foot
above the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the
opening;
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area;
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hazardous velocities. Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in
the design of any foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for
debris flow exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five (5)
feet per second), foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should
be considered so that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   Enclosures below lowest floor.
         (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be finished
or partitioned into separate rooms, must be void of utilities except for
essential lighting as required for safety, and cannot be temperature
controlled.
         (c)   One (1) wet location switch and/or outlet connected to a ground
fault interrupt breaker may be installed below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in §§
156.066(A) through 156.066(C).
         (d)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in §§
156.066(A) through 156.066(D) should be of flood resistant materials.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
156.030 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and
potential projectiles and have erosion potential. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data
shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator; and
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision must be obtained upon completion of the
proposed development.
      (2)   If the provisions of §
156.066(E)(1) are met, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §§
156.065 and
156.066.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and the elevation standards of §
156.066(C) and the encroachment standards of §
156.066(E)(1) are met.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include general farms;
pastures; outdoor plant nurseries; horticulture; forestry; wildlife
sanctuaries; game farms; and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related
uses. Lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds, and hiking and horseback
riding trails are acceptable uses provided that they do not employ structures
or fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this subsection are permissible only if and
to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations or
changes to the floodway configuration.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it:
         (a)   Is on wheels or a jacking system;
         (b)   Is attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities
and security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either:
         (a)   Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the development permit and certification requirements of §
156.052, general standards outlined in §
156.065 and manufactured homes provisions in §§
156.066(C) and 156.066(D).
   (G)   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures
that flood maps, studies and other data identified in §
156.030 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified:
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations
or base flood elevations,
the community shall ensure that technical or scientific data reflecting such
changes be submitted to FEMA as soon as practicable but no later than six (6)
months of the date such information becomes available. These development
proposals include, but are not limited to:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from a special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of a special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
            4.   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
156.067(A).
         (b)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data
required in accordance with §
156.066(G) prepared in a format required for a conditional letter of map
revision or letter of map revision and submitted to FEMA. Submittal and
processing fees for these map revisions shall also be the responsibility of the
applicant.
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter
of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one (1) foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway.
         (d)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to §
156.066(G).
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction
and may be submitted at any time.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   A detached accessory structure or garage, the cost of which is
greater than $3,000, must comply with the requirements as outlined in FEMA’s
Technical Bulletin 7-93, Wet Floodproofing Requirements, or be elevated in
accordance with §§
156.066(A) and 156.066(D) or dry floodproofed in accordance with §
156.066(B).
      (2)   If accessory structures of $3,000 or less are to be placed in the
floodplain, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for any uses other than
the parking of vehicles and storage;
         (b)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure;
         (e)   Service facilities, such as electrical and heating equipment,
shall be installed in accordance with §
156.065(E);
         (f)   Openings to relieve hydrostatic pressure during a flood shall be
provided below base flood elevation in conformance with §
156.066(D)(1); and
         (g)   Accessory structures shall be built with flood-resistant
materials in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements, dated August 2008 and available from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are
acceptable flood-resistant materials.
   (I)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE because of functionality of the equipment, then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with the
following provisions:
      (1)   The utilities must meet the requirements for accessory structures
in §
156.066(H); and
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (J)   Elevators.
      (1)   A float switch system or another system that provides the same
level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for the
elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood shall be installed per
FEMA’s Technical Bulletin 4-93, Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in
Special Flood Hazard Areas.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE such as
counter weight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4-93, Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood
Hazard Areas.
   (K)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of §§
156.066(A) or
156.066(B) and that the amount of fill used will not affect the flood storage
capacity or adversely affect adjacent properties. The following provisions
shall apply to all fill placed in a special flood hazard area:
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in §
156.066(E)(1);
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits;
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps, and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain;
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698 and its suitability to support structures must be certified by a registered
professional engineer;
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two (2) horizontal to one (1)
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion;
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties;
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas; and
      (8)   The requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10-01, Ensuring That
Structures Built On Fill in or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas Are Reasonable
Safe from Flooding, must be met.
   (L)   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in §
155.066(G) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis that generates base flood
elevations is completed.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. V) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.067 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND
FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V) established
in §
156.030 are small streams where no base flood data has been provided and where
no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas:
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
(5) acres, whichever is less;
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and new development, shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
and professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
   (C)   If §
156.067(A) is satisfied and base flood elevation data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard provisions of §§
156.065 and
156.066 and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations
established in §
156.069(K).
   (D)   Data from preliminary, draft, and final flood insurance studies
constitutes best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Technical
Bulletin 1-98, Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an
appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 CFR Ch. 1, Part 67.5 and
67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (E)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other source,
one (1) of the following methods may be used to determine a BFE. For further
information regarding the methods for determining BFEs listed below, refer to
FEMA’s manual, Managing Floodplain Development in Approximate Zone A Areas:
      (1)   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE; or
         (b)   Add one-half (1/2) of the contour interval of the topographic
map that is used to the BFE.
      (2)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of a reach of a stream reach for which a 100-year profile has
been computed by detailed methods, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches. No hydraulic
structures shall be present.
      (3)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA- approved methods and
software.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. V) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.068 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT FLOODWAYS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided
but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in
the FIS, no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless a certification
with supporting technical data provided by a registered professional engineer
is provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
(1) foot at any point within the community.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. V) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.069 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
156.030 are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall
be elevated at least three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be
elevated at least three (3) feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Be completely floodproofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in §
156.052(K).
   (C)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to guide
water away from the structures.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. V) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 156.080 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals, as established by the Town of South Congaree,
shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.081 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board or any taxpayer may
appeal such decision to the court.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.082 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.083 FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided the criteria of this chapter are met, no
reasonable alternatives exist, and the development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage and create no additional threat to public safety.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.084 AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued to wet floodproof an agricultural structure provided
it is used solely for agricultural purposes. In order to minimize flood damages
during the base flood and the threat to public health and safety, the structure
must meet all of the conditions and considerations of §
156.087, this section, and the following standards:
   (A)   Use of the structure must be limited to agricultural purposes as
listed below:
      (1)   Pole frame buildings with open or closed sides used exclusively for
the storage of farm machinery and equipment;
      (2)   Steel grain bins and steel frame corncribs;
      (3)   General-purpose barns for the temporary feeding of livestock that
are open on at least one (1) side;
      (4)   For livestock confinement buildings, poultry houses, dairy
operations, and similar livestock operations, variances may not be issued for
structures that were substantially damaged. New construction or substantial
improvement of such structures must meet the elevation requirements of §
156.066(B).
   (B)   The agricultural structure must be built or, in the case of an
existing building that is substantially damaged, rebuilt with flood-resistant
materials for the exterior and interior building components and elements below
the base flood elevation.
   (C)   The agricultural structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. All of the structure’s components
must be capable of resisting specific flood-related forces, including
hydrostatic, buoyant, hydrodynamic, and debris impact forces. Where flood
velocities exceed five (5) feet per second, fast-flowing floodwaters can exert
considerable pressure on the building’s enclosure walls or foundation walls.
   (D)   The agricultural structure must meet the ventilation requirement of §
156.066(D).
   (E)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be located
above the BFE plus any required freeboard or be contained within a watertight,
floodproofed enclosure that is capable of resisting damage during flood
conditions in accordance with §
156.065(E).
   (F)   The agricultural structure must comply with the floodway encroachment
provisions of §
156.066(E).
   (G)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected. Such
protection may include protective watertight floodproofed areas within the
building, the use of equipment hoists for readily elevating contents,
permanently elevating contents on pedestals or shelves above the base flood
elevation or determining that property owners can safely remove contents
without risk to lives and that the contents will be located to a specified site
out of the floodplain.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.085 CONSIDERATIONS.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in this
chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage, and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
   (J)   Agricultural structures must be located in wide, expansive floodplain
areas when no other alternative location for the agricultural structure exists.
The applicant must demonstrate that the entire farm acreage, consisting of a
contiguous parcel of land on which the structure is to be located, must be in
the special flood hazard area and no other alternative locations for the
structure are available.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.086 FINDINGS.
   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board in writing and
included in the application for a variance. Additionally, comments from the
Department of Natural Resources, Land, Water and Conservation Division, State
Coordinator’s Office, must be taken into account and included in the permit
file.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.087 FLOODWAYS.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result unless a CLOMR is
obtained prior to issuance of the variance. In order to ensure the project is
built in compliance with the CLOMR for which the variance is granted, the
applicant must provide a bond for 100% of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.088 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to all variances:
   (A)   Variances may not be issued when the variance will make the structure
in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances;
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief;
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense; create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public; or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the BFE and the elevation to which the
structure is to be built and a written statement that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk. Such notification shall
be maintained with a record of all variance actions.
   (E)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or other
development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
156.054(E).
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 156.100 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION CODE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, enacted April 11, 1980, and it is not
the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce without
interruption of such existing provisions so that all rights and liabilities
that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of
this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding instituted or
pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, enacted on
April 11, 1980, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.101 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building Inspector or
his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter;
provided, however, that when start of construction has not occurred under such
outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent to passage of this
chapter, construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in addition, shall pay all
costs and expenses involved in the case.
   (C)   Each day the violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of South Congaree from
taking other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1985 Code, Ch. 15, Art. III) (Am. Ord. --, passed 4-27-2018)
CHAPTER 157:
SEDIMENT CONTROL AND STORM DRAINAGE
Section
Purpose, Authority and Jurisdiction
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Jurisdiction
Definitions
   
157.015   Rules of language and interpretation
   
157.016   Definitions
Procedure
   
157.030   Permit
   
157.031   Exceptions
   
157.032   Application for permit
   
157.033   Fee schedule
   
157.034   Approval or disapproval of application
   
157.035   Variance and exceptions
   
157.036   Appeals
   
157.037   Other authorization or requirement
   
157.038   Extension of time
   
157.039   Responsibility of applicant
Plan Requirements
   
157.050   Guidelines for sediment control and drainage plan preparation
   
157.051   Guidelines for flood control plan preparation
   
157.052   Reference
   
157.053   Plan requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.065   Inspection
   
157.066   Enforcement
Legal Status
   
157.080   Conflict with other laws
   
157.081   Repeal of conflicting regulations
   
157.082   Separability clause
   
157.083   Amendments
   
157.084   Effective date
Lexington County Stormwater Management Ordinance
   157.100   Adopted by reference
 
   
157.999   Penalty
PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION
§ 157.001 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the general health, safety and welfare of the people of
Lexington County, South Carolina, this Sediment Control and Storm Drainage
Chapter is enacted to prevent the erosion of soils, to prevent the
sedimentation of streams, to prevent the clogging of ditches, to prevent the
silting of lakes, to provide unobstructed and sanitary channels for storm water
runoff, to prevent flooding caused by the encroachment of buildings or other
structures on natural drainage channels, to prevent pollution of surface water
and groundwater, to promote groundwater recharge and to preserve the natural
scenic beauty of Lexington County for posterity.
(1985 Code, § 1, 1.10)
§ 157.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands within the
jurisdiction of Lexington County, South Carolina, and those municipalities
which, by written agreement executed, contract to have these provisions
administered within their corporate limits. All lands under the jurisdiction of
a state or federal land management program are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 1, 1.30)
DEFINITIONS
§ 157.015 RULES OF LANGUAGE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
   (B)   The particular shall control the general.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, and words
used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless
the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (D)   All public officials, bodies and agencies to which reference is made
are those of Lexington County, South Carolina, unless otherwise indicated.
(1985 Code, § 2, 2.10)
§ 157.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any building or erection of a structure or any preparation for
the same.
   DEVELOPER. Any person who acts in his or her own behalf, or as an owner or
an agent for an owner of property, and who makes application for the permit
necessary to disturb land or vegetation or to encroach upon a major drainage
channel, or to encroach upon the designated floodplain.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating, drilling operations or permanent storage
of materials.
   DRAINAGE. A general term applied to the removal of surface or subsurface
water from a given area either by gravity via natural means or by systems
constructed so to remove water, and is commonly applied herein to surface
water.
   DRAINAGE MAP. The map attached to and made a part of this chapter as though
copied herein which is maintained by the Department of Planning and Development
and which identifies the existing natural and man-made major drainage channels
of the county.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The surface and subsurface system for the removal of water
from the land, including both the natural elements of streams, marshes, swales,
and ponds, whether of an intermittent or continuous nature, and the man-made
element which includes culverts, retention facilities and the storm sewer
system.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   EMBANKMENT or FILL. A deposit of soil, rock or other material placed by man.
   EROSION. The general process by which soils or rock fragments are detached
and moved by the action of wind, water, ice and gravity.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in the level of water which results in the
inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water. For the purpose of this
chapter, a FLOOD shall be construed to be any inundation which has a return
frequency of 100 years or less, and shall be known as the base flood.
   FLOOD CONTROL PLAN. A plan which fully indicates the measures to be taken to
provide for the protection of major drainage channels, the provisions for flood
control, and the provisions for the control of runoff and which is approved as
provided herein for application to a particular area or parcel of ground.
   FLOOD MAPS.
      (1)   The official county maps which are attached to and made a part of
this chapter as though copied herein, and which designate within the
unincorporated jurisdiction of Lexington County and within those municipalities
which, executed agreement, have contracted for the provisions of this chapter
to be administered within their respective corporate boundaries, the elevation
and boundaries of land subject to inundation by a flood with a return frequency
of 100 years.
      (2)   The specific studies listed below shall be incorporated herein,
including any amendments thereto, as well as any authorized studies received
from the U. S. Corps of Engineering or other agency which specifically relate
to the flooding of land within the county and which clarify or extend the
information contained in the following:
         (a)   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
         (b)   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community,
on
which the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Rate Map for Lexington County, South
Carolina (unincorporated areas), dated 6-15-1981, with accompanying maps and
other supporting data, and any revision thereto, are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
         (c)   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Boundary-Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by flood waters
resulting from a flood with a return frequency of 100 years or less.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural
modifications, additions, changes or adjustments to new or existing structures
which has the effect of reducing or eliminating the potential for flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, to water and sanitary facilities or
to structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of river or watercourse, and the adjacent land areas,
that must be reserved in order to discharge a flood within a return frequency
of 100 years without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one (1) foot.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement) that is, top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction.
   GRADING. Any displacement of soil by stripping, excavating, filling,
stockpiling or any combination thereof, including the land in its excavated or
filled state.
   LAND. Any ground, soil or earth, including marshes, swamps, drainageways and
areas not permanently covered by water within the county.
   LAND DISTURBANCE. Any activity involving clearing, grading, transporting,
filling or any other activity which causes land to be exposed to the danger of
erosion, or which might create an alteration in the natural drainageway.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
      (2)   The term also includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar
transportable structures placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer
and intended to be improved property.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for
Lexington County, South Carolina (unincorporated areas), which is 6-15-1981.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued to perform work authorized under the provisions
of the chapter.
   PROFESSIONAL SOIL CONSERVATIONIST. An individual who satisfies the
successful completion of a four (4)-year course of study in an accredited
college or university leading to a bachelor's degree with major study in soil
conservation or a closely related natural resource or agricultural field such
as agronomy, wildlife biology, agricultural education or agricultural
engineering (since there is no Board or other authority to review the various
curricula, it is suggested that the course of study include 30 semester hours
in soils); and three (3) years of experience in the planning and application of
erosion and sediment control practices. The experience should have been
obtained under the supervision of another professional soil conservationist.
   REGISTERED ARCHITECT. An architect properly registered and licensed in South
Carolina by the State Board of Architectural Examiners.
   REGISTERED CIVIL ENGINEER. A civil engineer properly registered and licensed
in South Carolina or permitted by the licensing board.
   REGISTERED LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A landscape architect properly registered
and licensed in South Carolina or permitted by the licensing board.
   RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation on the land which reaches the
drainage system.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process which operate at or near the surface of the
ground, or deposit soils, debris and other materials either on other ground
surfaces or in water channels.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PLAN. A drainage system plan which fully
indicates necessary land management and treatment measures, including a
timetable of the schedule for their installation, which will effectively
minimize soil erosion and sedimentation and which is approved as provided
herein for application to a particular area or parcel of ground.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Soil and Water Conservation
District for Lexington County as established by state statute.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub.L. No.97-348)), being
16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et seq., includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers
or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the
ground, including, but not limited to, tennis courts, swimming pools, fences
and buildings.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, alteration or
improvements to a structure, taking place during the life of structure, in
which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure.
      (2)   The market value of the structure should be:
         (a)   The appraised value of the structure prior to the start of the
initial repair or improvement; or
         (b)   In the case of damage, the value of the structure prior to the
damage occurring.
      (3)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (4)   The term does not, however, include any project for improvement of
a structure required to comply with existing health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   VEGETATION. All plant growth, especially trees, shrubs, mosses and grasses.
(1985 Code, § 2, 2.20)
PROCEDURE
§ 157.030 PERMIT.
   Unless otherwise provided within this chapter, the surface of land in
Lexington County shall not be disturbed or altered for any purpose whatsoever,
nor any identified major drainage channel impeded or encroached upon, nor any
construction commenced in a designated flood area, except in accordance with a
sediment control and storm drainage plan approved by the Soil and Water
Conservation District and Planning Engineer and/or a flood control plan
approved by the Planning Engineer. A permit indicating the approval shall be
issued by the Planning Engineer or his or her designated representative prior
to any construction, grading or land disturbance of any nature. Waiver of the
permit may be granted upon determination that the integrity of this chapter
will not be violated by the action.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.10) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.031 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §§
157.030 through
157.039 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Agricultural land management and cultural practices, or to the
construction of on-farm buildings and structures used in a farming operation,
provided that the practices or structures do not materially impede the runoff
capability of the existing major drainage channels or encroach upon a
floodplain;
   (B)   Construction or land improvement of single-family residences or
buildings accessory to the residences which are not a part of a residential
subdivision subject to the Lexington County Subdivision Chapter, provided that
the construction does not materially impede the runoff capability of the
existing major drainage channels or encroach upon a floodplain;
   (C)   Land improvements to a single-family residence in a developed
subdivision, provided that the construction does not materially impede the
runoff capability of the existing major drainage channels or encroach upon a
floodplain; or
   (D)   Mining and mineral resource extraction operations conducted in
accordance with a valid mining permit issued by the Mining and Reclamation
Division of the South Carolina Land Resources Conservation Commission, provided
that the construction does not materially impede the runoff capability of the
existing major drainage channels or encroach upon a floodplain.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.20)
§ 157.032 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The developer shall apply in writing to the Department of Planning and
Development for a permit to disturb land in Lexington County. The application
shall be accompanied by a sediment control and drainage plan prepared in
accordance with the provisions of §§
157.050 through
157.053 of this chapter. The Department of Planning and Development shall
determine at the time of sediment control and drainage plan submittal whether a
flood control plan additionally ought to accompany the application by
consulting the drainage map or the flood maps of the county or the Planning
Engineer. If it is determined, the flood control plan, prepared in accordance
with the provisions of §§
157.050 through
157.053 of this chapter, shall be submitted.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.30) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.033 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule for obtaining a grading permit shall be established by
Lexington County Council.
Acreage Proposed for Development Fee
Acreage Proposed for Development Fee
1 acre or less                   $ 50
1 to 2 acres                     $100
2 to 5 acres                     $150
5 to 10 acres                    $200
10 to 20 acres                   $250
20 to 50 acres                   $300
50 to 100 acres                  $350
100 acres                        $400
 
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.40) (Am. Ord. passed 4-1-1989)
§ 157.034 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The sediment control and drainage plan shall be forwarded to the Soil
and Water Conservation District and Planning Engineer for review. If the plan
conforms to the requirements of this chapter, the Planning Engineer shall
approve the plan upon receipt of a written approval from the district and issue
the permit to the applicant.
   (B)   The flood control plan shall be forwarded to the Planning Engineer for
review. If the plan conforms to the requirements of this chapter, the Planning
Engineer shall approve the plan upon receipt of a written approval from the
district and issue the permit to the applicant.
   (C)   If the application for a sediment control and drainage plan or flood
control plan is denied, written notification of such, indicating the reason or
reasons for denial, shall be forwarded to the applicant within ten (10) days
after denial.
   (D)   (1)   Review of any submitted plan shall require 30 days from the date
of submittal until the time a decision need be rendered, either approval or
denial. If, at the end of the 30 day period a decision has not been reached, a
status report shall be forwarded to the applicant indicating the progress of
the review.
      (2)   Additional 30 day review increments shall automatically accrue at
the discretion of the reviewing authority according to its requirements.
   (E)   If an application is denied, the applicant may elect to correct the
indicated deficiencies in conformance with the provisions of this chapter and
resubmit the application to the Department of Planning and Development with no
additional fee assessed.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.50) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.035 VARIANCE AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may, upon application to it and showing of
undue hardship, grant variance and exceptions to any of the provisions of this
chapter, providing the variance or exception is in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may request and consider the opinion of the
Soil and Water Conservation District and the Planning Engineer before deciding
upon any variance or exception.
   (C)   In any event the conditions and criteria for granting an appeal or
variance request regarding property within the identified floodplain or
floodway shall be as outlined in 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 60.6 (10-1-1986
edition).
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.60)
§ 157.036 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Planning Engineer or the
Soil and Water Conservation District may appeal to the Planning Commission by
written notice to its secretary. The appeal shall be filed within 60 days after
the decision.
   (B)   Any person who shall feel aggrieved by any decision on an appeal to
the Planning Commission may appeal to the Circuit Court of the county, which
shall hear the same de novo.
   (C)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days after the Planning Commission
decision.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.70)
§ 157.037 OTHER AUTHORIZATION OR REQUIREMENT.
   Where any authorization, bonds or other securities are required by
applicable laws, regulations or ordinances for any part of the proposed work to
be done under the plan, the applicant shall, upon request, furnish the
Department of Planning and Development with satisfactory evidence that the
requirements have been met before the commencement of work under an approved
application.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.80) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.038 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   (A)   If the applicant is unable to complete the work within the time
specified in the permit and plan, he or she may, prior to the expiration of the
time, present in writing to the Department of Planning and Development a
request for an extension of time, setting forth the reasons for the requested
extension.
   (B)   The Planning Engineer shall have the authority to grant or deny the
request for an extension of time subject to the additional measures as may be
required by the Soil and Water Conservation District under the specific
circumstances involved.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.90)
§ 157.039 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT.
   During any land disturbance operation the applicant shall be responsible for
carrying out the proposed work in accordance with the permit, approved plan,
specifications and time schedule, and in compliance with all requirements of
this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 3, 3.100)
PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.050 GUIDELINES FOR SEDIMENT CONTROL AND DRAINAGE PLAN PREPARATION.
   Sediment control and drainage plans shall be prepared according to the
following guidelines prior to submission to the county.
   (A)   Select land where the drainage pattern, topography and soils are
favorable for the intended use. Tracts of land vary in suitability for
different uses. Knowing the major characteristics of the land area and kinds of
soil helps in identifying and evaluating potential problems. Soil survey
information is available from the Soil Conservation Service which has an office
serving each county in South Carolina.
   (B)   Expose the smallest practical area of land for the least possible time
during development.
   (C)   When feasible, retain and protect natural vegetation. Save topsoil,
where practical, for replacing on graded areas.
   (D)   Use temporary plant cover, mulching or structures to control runoff
and protect areas subject to erosion during construction.
   (E)   Provide for handling the increased runoff caused by changed soil
conditions and surface conditions. Effective means include the use of diversion
ditches, grassed or surfaced waterways and outlets, enlarged and protected
drainage channels, grade control structures and effective use of street gutter
and storm sewers.
   (F)   Engineer the drainage systems of the development according to the
Lexington County development guidelines.
   (G)   Use sediment basins or other forms of silt traps, where practical, to
remove heavy sediment loads from runoff waters leaving the disturbed area.
   (H)   Install the permanent vegetative cover and the long-term erosion
protection structures as soon as practical in the development process.
(1985 Code, § 4, 4.10) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.051 GUIDELINES FOR FLOOD CONTROL PLAN PREPARATION.
   Flood control plans shall be prepared according to the following guidelines
prior to the submission of the plan to the county.
   (A)   Encroachment upon an identified major drainage channel and the
adjacent overflow land shall be avoided. An easement, sufficient to accommodate
the flow resulting from a storm with a 100-year return frequency, shall be
provided, approved by the Planning Engineer as to width and course, to protect
the carrying capacity of the channel and to provide working room for
construction and maintenance. The easement shall be dedicated to the county.
   (B)   Whenever major drainage channel improvements are carried out, sodding,
backsloping, cribbing and other bank protection shall be designed and
constructed to control erosion for the anticipated conditions and flow
resulting from a 100-year frequency rainfall. If the improvements involve
significant alteration or relocation of the course of a major drainage channel,
prior notification shall be given to adjacent communities and the South
Carolina Water Resources Commission, with copies of the notification sent to
the Federal Insurance Administrator.
   (C)   Design all culverts, bridges, and other drainage structures in
accordance with the specifications and design standards of the Planning
Engineer's office and predicate same on a 100-year frequency rainfall.
   (D)   Applicants shall obtain all necessary permits from those governmental
agencies from which approval is required by state or federal law.
   (E)   The Planning Engineer shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new developments to determine whether the proposals will be reasonably
secure from the ravages of flooding. If any subdivision proposal or other
proposed new development is in a flood-prone area, the Planning Engineer shall
require the submission of the base flood elevation date, and any proposal shall
be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood damage
with the flood prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (F)   The applicant shall design new and replacement water and sewer systems
within flood prone areas so as to prevent or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters into the system. Septic tanks shall be located so that they are free
from inundation by a 100-year flood.
   (G)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to at
least one (1) foot above the 100-year frequency flood elevation. If a building
pad is used, the ground shall be sloped from the pad down to the 100-year
frequency flood elevation over a distance of ten (10) feet or more feet.
   (H)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to at least one
(1) foot above the flood level of a flood with a return frequency of 100 years;
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be
designed so that below the elevation of a flood with a return frequency of 100
years, the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Where floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, a
registered engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing methods
are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressure, velocities, impact,
uplift forces and other factors associated with a flood with a return frequency
of 100 years, and a record of the certificates shall be maintained in the
Department of Planning and Development.
   (I)   For the purpose of determining applicable flood insurance risk premium
rates, the county shall:
      (1)   Require that the elevation (mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures be
provided and that notice be given if the structure includes a basement;
      (2)   Require that, if the structure has been floodproofed, the elevation
(mean sea level) to which the structure was floodproofed be provided; and
      (3)   Maintain a public record of all information with the Department of
Planning and Development.
   (J)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or other development resulting in an increase in the surface water
elevation of the adopted regulatory floodway during the occurrence of a 100-
year flood shall be permitted.
   (K)   Mobile home location and placement shall adhere to the following:
      (1)   No mobile home shall be permitted in the regulatory floodway;
      (2)   Mobile homes located in the floodplain shall be placed on compacted
fill elevated to at least one (1) foot above the elevation of the 100-year
flood; and
      (3)   Mobile homes located in the floodplain in accord with the above
shall be secured with anchored tie-downs in accord with C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(8).
   (L)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings
that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living
space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs for
complying with this requirement must either be certified by a professional
engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot
above grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
   (M)   Electrical, plumbing and other utility connections are prohibited
below the base flood elevation.
(1985 Code, § 4, 4.20) Penalty, see §
157.999
§ 157.052 REFERENCE.
   All calculations, formulae and data used in the preparation of sediment
control and drainage plans or the flood control plans shall be subject to
review by the Planning Engineer who may require other calculations made,
formulae used or data supplied.
(1985 Code, § 4, 4.30)
§ 157.053 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The sediment control and drainage plan and the flood control plan shall
contain the following, as applicable:
   (A)   A vicinity map sufficient to locate the site and to show the
relationship of the site to its general surroundings at a scale of not less
than one (1) inch to one (1) mile.
   (B)   The site drawn to a scale of not less than one (1) inch to 200 feet,
showing:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the site on which the work is to be
performed, including the approximate acreage of the site;
      (2)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than two (2) feet,
extending 100 feet outside of the site boundary lines (the Planning Engineer
shall have the authority to alter this requirement as he or she deems necessary
and proper);
      (3)   Proposed physical improvements on the site, including present
development and future utilization if future development plans are known;
      (4)   All drainage provisions, flood protection provisions, erosion and
sediment control measures, vegetative practices or other protective devices to
be constructed in connection with, or as a part of, the proposed work;
      (5)   Provisions for storm water runoff control during construction and
during the life of the facility, including a time schedule and sequence of
operations indicating the anticipated starting and completion dates of each
development operation;
      (6)   A complete and adequate grading plan for borrow pits and material
processing facilities where applicable, showing the storm drainageways serving
the areas; and
      (7)   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site.
   (C)   The name and address of the property owner, developer and petitioner.
   (D)   Title, scale, north arrow, date and name of individual or organization
preparing plat, with seal.
   (E)   The plan and certifications shall be supported by the supplemental
reports, data and additional information as the Planning Engineer may
reasonably require.
   (F)   The following certifications:
      (1)   Applicant's certification.
"I (We) hereby certify that all clearing, grading, construction, and/or
development will be done pursuant to this plan."
___________         ____________________
   Date            Permit Applicant
      (2)   Designer's certification.
"I hereby certify that this plan is designed to contain soil on the property
concerned to the maximum extent, to provide for the protection of the property
and the proposed improvements thereon from the ravages of flooding, to provide
for the control of the runoff from the property, and that all the provisions
for sediment control and storm drainage are in accordance with the sediment
control and storm drainage chapter for Lexington County, South Carolina."
_________         ______________________
   Date      Registered Civil Engineer, Professional Soil Conservationist,
Registered Landscape Architect, or Registered Architect, as applicable
(1985 Code, § 4, 4.40) Penalty, see §
157.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.065 INSPECTION.
   The Planning Engineer or his or her authorized representative shall inspect
the work done under the approved plan periodically as deemed advisable. Upon
completion of the work, he or she shall make a final inspection and if the work
has been completed in accordance with the approved plan, written confirmation
shall be issued to the applicant with a copy to the Soil and Water Conservation
District.
(1985 Code, § 5, 5.10)
§ 157.066 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Wherever the Planning Engineer or his or her authorized representative
finds that the work done or not done under any land disturbance permit issued
under the tenets of this chapter fails to conform to the approved plan or
plans, he or she shall direct conformance to the plan as he or she deems
necessary, to include the issuance of a written order to comply, to suspend
work, to revoke the permit issued, or to seek redress through legal action, or
to withhold the release of permanent electric power to the site.
   (B)   All violations of the provisions of this chapter by any person,
partnership, or corporation, whether public or private, that come to the
attention of any responsible individual concerned shall be reported to the
Planning Engineer or the Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (C)   The governing authority of the county or the Soil and Water
Conservation District may obtain the injunctive relief to enjoin violations of
any land disturbance permit issued upon the approval of a submitted sediment
control and drainage plan or flood control plan; and any person damaged as a
result of the violations may, upon a proper showing of damages, obtain payment
by a civil action.
(1985 Code, § 5, 5.20) Penalty, see §
157.999
LEGAL STATUS
§ 157.080 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever the provisions of this chapter impose more restrictive
standards than are required in or under any other ordinance, the regulations
herein contained shall prevail.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of any other ordinance require more
restrictive standards than are required herein, the requirements of such shall
prevail.
(1985 Code, § 6, 6.10)
§ 157.081 REPEAL OF CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances and resolutions regulating sediment control adopted prior to
these regulations are hereby repealed.
(1985 Code, § 6, 6.20)
§ 157.082 SEPARABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, clause, or portion of this chapter shall be held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, the finding shall
not affect any other section, clause or portion of the chapter.
(1985 Code, § 6, 6.30)
§ 157.083 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended in the manner as prescribed by law for its
original adoption. Before the county governing body amends this chapter, they
must seek the advice of the Planning Commission who will make a recommendation
for each amendment within 30 days.
(1985 Code, § 6, 6.40)
§ 157.084 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be enforced from and after 2-22-1988.
(1985 Code, § 6, 6.50)
LEXINGTON COUNTY STORMWATER MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE
§ 157.100 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Lexington County Stormwater Ordinance 16-04 is hereby adopted by
reference, which includes the Lexington County Land Development Manual, with
the Flood Damage Prevention (
Chapter 11) portion exempt, and shall be applicable within the town limits. The
ordinance shall be enforced by the County Department of Public Works in
conjunction with the town. The Lexington County Stormwater Ordinance 16-04 and
the Lexington County Land Development Manual shall be published in a separate
volume, a copy of which shall be maintained by the Municipal Clerk and filed as
Appendix E to Town Ordinance 2016-04. In addition, they can be found online at
www.lex-co.sc.gov under the Public Works Department.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 12-13-2016)
§ 157.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who willfully violates the provisions of a sediment control and
drainage plan or of a flood control plan submitted to obtain a land disturbance
permit shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code, § 5, 5.20)
CHAPTER 158:
ZONING
Section
Preamble, Enactment Clause and Definitions
   
158.001   Authority and purpose
   
158.002   Title
   
158.003   Jurisdiction
   
158.004   Definitions
Establishment of Districts
   
158.015   Division of area into districts
   
158.016   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
158.017   Rules for determining boundaries
Application of Regulations
   
158.030   Zoning affects every building and use
   
158.031   Yard service to one building
   
158.032   One principal building to a lot
   
158.033   Street frontage
   
158.034   Inspection of required buffers
   
158.035   Minimum lot size in residential zones
   
158.036   Subdivision of property of less than ten acres
   
158.037   Time period of compliance
   
158.038   Screening of trash receptacles
General Provisions
   
158.050   Continuance of non-conforming uses
   
158.051   Discontinuance of non-conforming uses
   
158.052   Off-street automobile parking and storage
   
158.053   Off-street loading and unloading spaces
   
158.054   Standards for mobile homes
   
158.055   Garage sales in all zones
Use Requirements for Development Districts (D-1)
   
158.070   Intent
   
158.071   Permitted uses
   
158.072   Permitted special exceptions
Use Requirements for Residential District (R-1, R-2, R-3)
   
158.085   Intent
   
158.086   R-1 Residential District (single- family)
   
158.087   R-2 Residential District (duplex)
   
158.088   R-3 Residential District (multi-family)
Use Requirements for Commercial District (C-1, C-2)
   
158.100   General Commercial (C-1)
   
158.101   Neighborhood Commercial (C-2)
Use Requirements for Industrial District (I-1)
   
158.115   Intent
   
158.116   Permitted uses
Special Provisions
   
158.130   Non-conforming lots of record
   
158.131   Lot size, setback and height requirements for all zoning districts
   
158.132   Vision clearance
   
158.133   Annexation
   
158.134   Amendment proceedings
   
158.135   Group developments
   
158.136   Regulation; group commercial or industrial
   
158.137   Regulation; group housing
   
158.138   Mobile home park
   
158.139   Day nurseries and kindergartens
   
158.140   Required buffer
   
158.141   Setbacks for Residential Districts
   
158.142   Reserved
   
158.143   Game room; amusement centers
   
158.144   Sexually oriented businesses
   
158.145   Authorizing certain dwellings and buildings to be declared unfit and
demolished
   
158.146   Restrictions on residency of sex offenders
Signs
   
158.160   Authority
   
158.161   Jurisdiction
   
158.162   Title and substitution clause
   
158.163   Purpose
   
158.164   Definitions
   
158.165   General provisions
   
158.166   Exempt signs
   
158.167   Prohibited signs
   
158.168   Temporary signs
   
158.169   Signs permitted in all zoning districts
   
158.170   Business signs
   
158.171   Non-conforming signs
   
158.172   Administration
   
158.173   Enforcement
Cluster Development
   
158.185   Intent
   
158.186   Definitions
   
158.187   Location and minimum size
   
158.188   Density and recreation area
   
158.189   Yards
   
158.190   Minimum lot size
   
158.191   Off-street parking and loading
   
158.192   Recreation area maintenance
   
158.193   Procedure for approval of cluster development
Administration and Enforcement
   
158.205   Responsibility for administration
   
158.206   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
158.207   Zoning permit required
   
158.208   Application for zoning permit
   
158.209   Construction progress
   
158.210   Records of applications and certificate
   
158.211   Complaints regarding violations
   
158.212   Remedies
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
158.225   Establishment, membership and proceedings of the Board
   
158.226   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment
   
158.227   Special exception
   
158.228   Appeals from the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
158.229   Functions of Zoning Administrator, Board of Appeals, Town Council and
Courts of Interpretation, Administration and Appeal
Amendments
   
158.240   Amendments
   
158.241   Minimum area requirements for creation of new zoning districts
   
158.242   Planning Commission review
   
158.243   Planning Commission study and report to Town Council
   
158.244   Public hearing on proposed amendment
   
158.245   Notice of public hearings
   
158.246   Reconsideration of proposed amendments
Fees and Charges
   
158.260   Schedule of fees and charges
   
158.261   Fees
   
158.262   No action until fees paid
Legal Status
   
158.275   Separability
   
158.276   Effective date
Beautification and Unification
   
158.290   Purpose
   
158.291   Architecture
   
158.292   Landscape
   
158.293   Buffers
 
   
158.999   Penalty
   
Appendix: Cluster Developments
Cross-reference:
   Home occupations, see §§
116.01 through
116.06
PREAMBLE, ENACTMENT CLAUSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 158.001 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by South Carolina Code of Laws and to guide
development in accordance with existing and future needs, to protect, promote
and improve the public health, safety, morals, convenience, order, appearance,
prosperity and general welfare, to lessen congestion in the streets, to secure
safety from fire, panic, and other dangers, to provide adequate provision of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements;
in accordance with a land development plan with reasonable consideration of the
character of each area and its peculiar suitability for particular uses, and
with view to promoting desirable living conditions and sustained stability of
neighborhoods, protecting property against blight and depreciation, securing
economy in governmental expenditures, conserving, the value of land and
buildings, and encouraging the most appropriate use of land, buildings, and
structures, the South Congaree Town Council does ordain and enact into law the
following regulations:
   (A)   Dividing the town into districts and establishing the boundaries
thereof;
   (B)   Regulating and restricting the sizes of yards, courts, and other open
spaces;
   (C)   Regulating and restricting the density and distribution of population;
   (D)   Regulating and restricting the location and uses of buildings,
structures, and land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture,
forestry, conservation, airports and approaches thereto, water supply,
sanitation, protection against flood, public activities;
   (E)   Providing for the method of administration and amendment of these
regulations;
   (F)   Defining the powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment with respect
to these regulations;
   (G)   Defining certain terms used herein; and
   (H)   Providing penalties for violations of these regulations.
(1985 Code, § 9-1)
§ 158.002 TITLE.
   These regulations shall include the official zoning map of South Congaree,
South Carolina and together with the text shall be known and may be cited as
the Zoning Code for the Town of South Congaree, South Carolina.
(1985 Code, § 9-2)
§ 158.003 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations set forth herein shall apply to all land and improvements
thereon within the town limits of South Congaree, South Carolina.
(1985 Code, § 9-3)
§ 158.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building that is secondary in size and use to that of
the principal building. It cannot be towed on its own chassis or designed for
use other than that incidential to the principal building.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main use of the
lot on which the building is located.
   CLUB, LODGE, CIVIC or FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An incorporated or
unincorporated association for civic, social, cultural, religious, literary,
political, recreational or like activities, but not including shooting clubs,
operated for the benefit of its members, and not open to the general public.
   COMPATIBLE. Friendly to the existing environment, so as not to detract from,
reduce property values of or degrade from the everyday enjoyment of property
owners and occupants in the surrounding area.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession or trade customarily
carried on by an occupant in a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is
clearly incidental to the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
   DAY NURSERY. Any agency, institution, center, home, nursery, nursery school,
kindergarten, play school or other place, however styled and whether operated
under public auspices, as a private business or by an established religious
denomination, in which are received for temporary custodial care apart from
their parents, part of the day or all of the day or night, and upon any number
of successive days one (1) or more children not related to the persons
providing temporary custodial care.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A detached building designed as a residence for
three (3) or more families, and consisting of three (3) or more separate
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed as a residence for one
(1) family, not including mobile homes.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A detached building designed as a residence for two (2)
families and consisting of two (2) separate dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One (1) or more rooms in a residential building which are
arranged, designed, used or intended for use as living quarters for one (1)
family, are physically separated from any other rooms or dwelling units which
may be in the same structure, and contain independent cooking and sleeping
facilities.
   FAMILY. Includes the following groups of persons, and no others:
      (1)   Any number of persons related by blood or marriage and living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit plus not more than two (2)
unrelated roomers, boarders or domestic servants; or
      (2)   Not more than three (3) unrelated persons living and cooking
together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise of water level in lakes, ponds, rivers, streams,
natural drainage courses, artificial drainage courses or waterways that results
in inundation of areas not ordinarily covered by water.
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 156
   FLOODPLAIN. Those areas subject to periodic inundation, by large floods
which occur with calculable flood frequency and subject to flooding which may
reasonably be expected to cause damage or hazard sufficient to justify
protection therefrom.
Cross-reference:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 156
   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. The gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
a dwelling, exclusive of carport, garages, basement, storage areas with only
outside access and open porches, measured from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls of a dwelling.
   GAME ROOM or AMUSEMENT CENTER. Recreational facility which houses four (4)
or more video/game machines and/or amusement devises.
   GROUP DEVELOPMENTS. Consist of commercial, industrial and housing group
development projects, not to include mobile homes or mobile home parks.
      (1)   GROUP COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS consist of more than one (1)
commercial or industrial structure erected on a single lot.
      (2)   GROUP HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS consist of more than one (1) residential
dwelling (single-family, duplex, or multi-family) on a single lot.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the mean finished
ground level adjoining the building to the highest point of the roof.
   JUNK YARD. Any use involving the storage or the dismantling, demolition, or
abandonment, sale or resale of junk including scrap metal, used paper, or other
scrap materials, salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment, storage, baling or otherwise dealing in bones, animal hides, cloth
or rags, used plumbing fixtures, appliances, furniture, and used brick, wood or
other building materials. These uses shall be considered JUNK YARDS whether or
not all or part of the operations are conducted inside a building or in
conjunction with, in addition to, or accessory to, other uses of the premises.
   JUNK YARD, MOTOR VEHICLE. Any place of storage or deposit, whether in
connection with another business or not, which displays, or in or upon which
are displayed, to view from the public highway two (2) or more unregistered
motor vehicles which are unfit for reconditioning for use on the public
highways, used parts of motor vehicles, old iron, metal, glass, paper, cordage
or other waste, discarded or secondhand material which has been a part or is
intending to be a part of any motor vehicle, the sum of which parts or material
shall be equal in bulk to two (2) or more motor vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Junk yards, see S.C. Code § 40-27-110
   LOT. A piece, parcel, or plot of land which may consist of one (1) platted
lot or a lot described by metes and bounds in single ownership, occupied or
intended to be occupied by one (1) principal building and accessory buildings,
including the open space required under this chapter.
Cross-reference:
   Lot size, see §
158.035
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between the side lot lines measured at the front
building setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A mobile home which is:
      (1)   Certified as meeting the 1976 Construction and Safety Standards;
      (2)   Permanently anchored to the site as specified by its manufacturer;
      (3)   Skirted on all sides with a masonry foundation or commercial
skirting material;
      (4)   Provided with cast concrete steps and landing; and
      (5)   Placed on the lot so that its longer axis is parallel to the front
lot line.
   MOBILE HOME. A movable or portable building over 32 feet in length and eight
(8) feet or over in width, constructed to be towed on its own chassis and
designed without a permanent foundation for year-round occupancy and one (1)
which may include one (1) or more components that can be retracted for towing
purposes and subsequently expanded for additional capacity, or of two (2) or
more units separately towable but designed to be joined into one (1) integral
unit, as well as a portable dwelling composed of a single unit. The term MOBILE
HOME used in these regulations shall not include prefabricated, modular or
unitized dwellings placed on permanent foundations, nor shall it refer to
travel trailers, campers or similar units designed for recreation or other
short term uses unless used for a permanent dwelling.
      (1)   DOUBLE-WIDE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home consisting of two (2)
sections combined horizontally at the site while still retaining their
individual chassis.
      (2)   EXPANDABLE MOBILE HOME. A mobile home with one (1) or more room
sections that fold, collapse or telescope into the principal unit when being
transported and which can be expanded at the site to provide additional living
area.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A set acreage of land in ownership used or set apart for
the purpose of supplying parking space for two (2) or more mobile homes and
includes buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosures used for or intended for
use as a part of the mobile home park. A development which is designed and
constructed to accommodate mobile homes. (For specifications or requirements on
these parks, see Chapter 152, Mobile Home Park Chapter of the South Congaree
Town Code.)
   MODULAR HOMES. Structures that are fabricated in a manufacturing facility
and shipped in one (1) or more components for final erection on the
construction site. They will meet all standards set forth by the Southern
Building Codes and must be erected on site by a South Carolina licensed general
contractor.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of a building, structure, or land existing at
the time of enactment of this chapter or subsequent amendment, which does not
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. The area required to load or unload goods or other
material, plus the necessary driveways and maneuvering area.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. The area required to park one (1) automobile, plus
the necessary driveways and maneuvering area.
   PARCEL. A stretch of land under single ownership, either by an individual, a
group of individuals or corporation including the words lot, tract, plot, site
or other division of land regardless of how it is described or its use or
intended use.   
   PROHIBITED USES. Any use which is not expressly permitted in a district
shall be prohibited.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE SYSTEM. Pipelines and all other construction devices to
include treatment facilities up to and including tertiary treatment, and
appliances appurtenant thereto used for conducting sewage, industrial waste or
other waste to a point for ultimate discharge. A septic tank without treatment
beyond that normally associated with septic tank operation is not considered a
public sewage system regardless of size or number of users.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Pipelines and all other construction, devices and
appliances used for providing treated water for human consumption, fire
hydrants and the like. Treated water is defined as water that goes through some
form of treatment plant or treatment process.
   SEPTIC TANK. A tank in which the solid matter of continuously flowing sewage
is disintegrated by bacteria. A SEPTIC TANK is not considered to be a public
sewage system.
   SETBACK LINE (BUILDING SETBACK LINE). A line beyond which no foundation
wall, eaves, or other part of any building shall project unless specified
exceptions are made elsewhere in these regulations.
   SKIRTING. The material which encloses the bottom perimeter of the mobile
home which conceals from sight the wheels, blocks and open area under the
mobile home.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location of the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground, including for purposes of this chapter, mobile homes, travel trailers,
signs, mobile signs and portable signs, but excluded from definition as
STRUCTURES are minor landscaping features such as ornamental pools, planting
boxes, bird baths, paved surfaces, walkways, driveways, recreational equipment,
flagpoles, utility poles and mailboxes.
   YARD. An open or unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal building
and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky except where
encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street
or road and the front line of the building. For the purposes of determining
yard requirements on corner lots and double frontage lots, all sides of a lot
adjacent to streets shall be considered as frontage.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear
line of the lot and the rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, situated between the building and the side lot line and extending
from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a rear or a front line
shall be deemed a side line.
(1985 Code, Ch. 9, Part B)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 158.015 DIVISION OF AREA INTO DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the area described in §§
158.001 through
158.003 hereof is divided into districts as follows:
District Title Section
District Title                      Section
D-1      Development                158.070
R-1      Residential, Single-Family 158.086
R-2      Residential, Duplex        158.087
R-3      Residential, Multi-Family  158.088
C-1      Commercial, General        158.100
C-2      Commercial, Neighborhood   158.101
I-1      Industrial                 158.115
 
(1985 Code, § 9-16)
§ 158.016 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts listed in §
158.015 are hereby established as shown on the map entitled Zoning Map of the
Town of South Congaree, South Carolina, dated as the effective date of this
chapter or any subsequent major amendments hereto.
   (B)   The zoning map described above is made a part of this chapter.
   (C)   An official copy of the zoning map shall be kept on file in the office
of the Zoning Administrator.
(1985 Code, § 9-17)
§ 158.017 RULES FOR DETERMINING BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where reasonable uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of
any of the aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the Zoning
Administrator shall decide the location of the boundaries.
   (B)   And in so doing, the Zoning Administrator shall be guided by the
following rules.
      (1)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
the center lines of streams, railroads, streets or highways, or street, highway
or railroad right-of-way lines, then the center lines or right-of-way line
shall be construed to be the boundaries;
      (2)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they approximately
follow the lot lines, the lot lines shall be considered to be the boundaries;
      (3)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the center lines of streets, highways or railroads,
or rights-of-way of same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and the distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map. If
no distance is given, the dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale
shown on the zoning map; and
      (4)   Where a district boundary line as appearing on the zoning map
divides a lot in single ownership at the time of this enactment, or subsequent
amendment to this chapter, the district requirements for the least restricted
portion of the lot as determined by the property owner shall be deemed to apply
to the whole thereof, provided that the extensions shall not include any part
of a lot more than 50 feet beyond the district boundary lines.
(1985 Code, § 9-18)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 158.030 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity with all of
the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(1985 Code, § 9-26) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.031 YARD SERVICE TO ONE BUILDING.
   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off-street parking.
(1985 Code, § 9-27)
§ 158.032 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING TO A LOT.
   Only one (1) principal building and its customary accessory buildings may
hereinafter be erected on any lot under single ownership except as otherwise
provided by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-28) Penalty, see §
158.999
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions permitting group developments, see §
158.134
   Exceptions permitting mobile home parks, see
Ch. 152
§ 158.033 STREET FRONTAGE.
   No principal building shall be erected on any lot which does not have
immediate frontage on at least one (1) public street or road for a distance of
not less than 25 feet if the lots are on a cul-de-sac. All other lots must meet
the lot width provisions of §§
158.130 through
158.145. Except for street frontage, all cul-de-sac lots must meet all other
setback requirements of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-29) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.034 INSPECTION OF REQUIRED BUFFERS.
   In the event a screen, wall, fence, planted dividing strip or any other type
of buffer is required by this chapter for any use or is required by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment, the screen, wall and the like will be subject to periodic
inspections by the Zoning Administrator to determine that the required walls,
fences and the like, being properly maintained. In the case of landscaping, all
planted material shall be maintained in a healthy, growing condition, neat and
orderly in appearance. Failure to maintain the required walls, fences and the
like to an acceptable standard may be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-30) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.035 MINIMUM LOT SIZE IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   In Residential Zones designated R-1, when public sewage is not available,
the minimum lot or parcel size will be one-half (1/2) of an acre or as
determined by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental
Control’s septic tank installation requirements, whichever is greater.
(1985 Code, § 9-31) (Am. Ord. passed 8-16-2011)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 151
§ 158.036 SUBDIVISION OF PROPERTY OF LESS THAN TEN ACRES.
   Subdivision of property less than ten (10) acres in an area for the purpose
of erecting mobile homes for use other than owner occupied purposes shall be
prohibited. Over ten (10) acres must comply with the Mobile Home Park Chapter,
Chapter 152.
(1985 Code, § 9-32) Penalty, see §
158.999
Cross-reference:
   R-3, multi-family zone, see §§ 158.134, 158.240, 158.241, 158.088
§ 158.037 TIME PERIOD OF COMPLIANCE.
   Unless otherwise stated, all requirements for this Zoning Chapter shall be
complied with before occupancy and use of the building, structure or land shall
be permitted.
(1985 Code, § 9-33) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.038 SCREENING OF TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   All dumpsters, trash cans, trash bins, trash receptacles and any other
device designed for the temporary or permanent collection and maintenance of
trash, garbage or refuse which device shall be located within a commercial
district within the town shall be screened in a way as to be totally out of
sight of any public road or street. Screening material shall be manmade. The
material shall be placed on the property in an orderly fashion so the
applicable receptacle shall be totally invisible from public view.
   (B)   All trash, garbage, refuse or any other waste material located within
a commercial district within the town shall be kept and maintained in a way so
that it does not escape from its receptacle. The trash, litter, garbage or
other refuse on any commercial district shall be at all times maintained in an
appropriate receptacle until a time as it is able to be collected and removed
from the property.
   (C)   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both.
(Ord. passed 5-20-2002)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.050 CONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   The lawful use of any building or structure or land existing at the
time of the enactment of or subsequent amendment to this chapter may be
continued (with the exception of the uses listed in §
158.051) subject to the restrictions contained in this chapter.
   (B)   The non-conforming structure or use shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another non-conforming use;
      (2)   Torn down and rebuilt as a non-conforming use;
      (3)   Extended or enlarged except in conformity with this chapter;
      (4)   Reestablished after vacancy or discontinuance for one (1) year;
      (5)   Rebuilt, altered or repaired, except in conformity with this
chapter, after damage exceeding 75% of the fair market value of the improvement
as determined from the tax records of Lexington County, provided, however, this
provision shall not apply to an owner occupied dwelling;
      (6)   Repaired or altered to an extent exceeding 10% of the current
replacement cost of the building within any period of 12 consecutive months.
Work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing
walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, provided that the cubic content of the
building as it existed at the effective date of this chapter shall not be
increased, and that the cost and time limits set by this section are not
exceeded;
      (7)   Manufactured or mobile homes which do not conform to the
requirements of the chapter shall not be replaced with a non-conforming mobile
home. In the case of a non-conforming mobile home erected prior to 11-2-1987,
the replacement home shall meet the requirements of §
158.054, but a special exception shall not be required. In the case of a non-
conforming mobile home erected after 11-1-1987, the replacement home shall meet
the requirements of §§
158.032 and
158.054, and a special exception shall be required.
      (8)   In the case of replacing a mobile home in an approved mobile home
park, the replacement mobile home must meet the requirements of §
158.054, but a special exception shall not be required.
(1985 Code, § 9-41)
§ 158.051 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The following non-conforming uses of land shall be discontinued or made to
conform with the use provisions of this chapter within the following periods of
time from the date of adoption of this chapter or subsequent amendments
effecting a non-conforming use:
 
Non-conforming outdoor advertising signs and automobile junk yards 3 years
Display of merchandise for sale in required front yards            1 year
 
(1985 Code, § 9-42)
§ 158.052 OFF-STREET AUTOMOBILE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile parking and storage space shall be provided on
every lot on which any of the uses mentioned in this section are hereafter
established.
   (B)   Automobile parking or storage space shall be provided with vehicular
access to a street or alley and shall be equal in area to at least the minimum
requirements for the specific uses as set forth below.
   (C)   An automotive parking space is determined to consist of a space no
less than nine (9) feet by 18 feet for standard size vehicles and no less that
seven (7) feet by 15 feet for compact cars if so marked. No more than 25% of
the parking requirements of this chapter may be satisfied with compact car
spaces. If the required automobile parking or storage space cannot be provided
on the same lot on which the principal use is located, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment may permit the space to be provided on other off-street property
provided the space is within 500 feet of the principal use.
   (D)   The spaces shall be associated with the permitted use and shall not
thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   (E)   All off-street parking and storage space except for single and 2-
family residential uses shall be arranged that vehicles will not be required to
back onto a public street, road, or highway when leaving the premises.
   (F)   Off-street automobile parking and storage spaces shall be equal in
number to at least the minimum requirements for the specific uses set forth
below:
Auto sales and repair                   1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                        auto repair or maintenance space
Churches, synagogues or other places of 1 space for each 4 seats in the main
worship                                 assembly room or sanctuary
                                        3 spaces for each grease rack or
Gasoline service stations               similar facility, plus 1 space for each
                                        employee on the shift with highest
                                        employment
                                        1 space for each 2 beds intended for
Hospitals, nursing homes, sanitariums   patients, not including bassinets, plus
or similar institutions                 1 space for each 3 employees on the
                                        shift with highest employment
Industries                              1 space for each 3 employees on the
                                        shift with highest employment
                                        1 space for each 4 seats in the chapel,
                                        1 additional space for each 2
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           employees, 1 additional space for each
                                        resident family, and 1 additional space
                                        for each funeral vehicle
Motels, hotels, tourist homes, rooming  1 space for each room to be let, plus 1
and boarding houses                     space for each 2 employees on the shift
                                        with highest employment
Offices, including banks                1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Places of public assembly, fraternal    1 space for each 4 seats of maximum
organizations                           seating capacity in the main assembly
                                        room
                                        1 space for each 4 seats provided for
Restaurants or similar eating           patron use and 1 additional space for
establishments                          each 2 employees on the shift with
                                        highest employment
Residences
Single-family and duplex                2 spaces for each dwelling unit
Multi-family                            2 spaces for each dwelling unit
Retail and service businesses           1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                        sales floor area
Schools, public and private             1 space for each 4 seats in the main
                                        auditorium or assembly room
Shopping centers                        1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
                                        Sufficient space to accommodate the
Truck Terminals                         maximum number of trucks to be stored
                                        or to be loading or unloading at the
                                        terminal at any 1 time
Wholesaling and warehousing             1 space for each 3 employees on the
                                        shift with highest employment
 
(1985 Code, § 9-43) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.053 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Every building or structure used for business, trade or industry shall
provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off
a street or public alley.
   (B)   The space shall have access to an alley or to a street.
   (C)   The space shall be so arranged that no vehicle is required to back
onto a public street, road or highway in order to enter or leave the premises.
 
                            1 space 10 feet by 25 feet with overhead clearance
Retail business and service of 14 feet for each 20,000 square feet of total
                            floor area or fraction thereof
                            1 space 10 feet by 50 feet with overhead clearance
                            of 14 feet for each 10,000 square feet of floor
Wholesale and industry      area plus 1 additional space for each 60,000
                            additional square feet of total floor area or
                            fraction thereof
                            Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number
Truck terminals             of trucks to stored or to be loading or unloading
                            at the terminal at any 1 time
 
(1985 Code, § 9-44) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.054 STANDARDS FOR MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   All mobile homes erected in the Town of South Congaree shall meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Department of Housing and Urban Development 1976 Construction and
Safety Standards for Manufactured Housing;
      (2)   South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control
Regulations;
      (3)   Southern Standard Building Code, Fire Code, Plumbing Code and
Electrical Code; and
      (4)   Current state standards for decent, safe, and sanitary housing.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to homes erected prior to 8-1-1988.
   (C)   Those homes shall be considered non-conforming uses, and shall be
controlled by §
158.050.
(1985 Code, § 9-45)
§ 158.055 GARAGE SALES IN ALL ZONES.
   The following regulations are hereby declared essential in order to regulate
garage sales in all zones:
   (A)   Permit.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained from town hall for each sale and same to
be posted at the site of the sale.
      (2)   The cost of each permit is to be $5 per permit per day.
      (3)   The maximum period for each permit is four (4) days consecutively.
      (4)   The maximum number of permits allowed per calendar year is four (4)
per family/location.
   (B)   Removal of tables. All tables, merchandise and the like must be
removed at the end of the permitted time of sale.
   (C)   Merchandise. No new or used merchandise be purchased or brought in for
the sale.
   (D)   Family merchandise. That all merchandise be that of the family or
families conducting the sale.
   (E)   Signs.
      (1)   Two (2) on-site garage sale signs shall be permitted advertising
the sale. The total display area of each of these two (2) signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet.
      (2)   Two (2) off-site garage sale signs may be permitted provided:
         (a)   The total display area of each sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet;
         (b)   No portion of any garage sale sign shall overhang or encroach
upon any public right-of-way;
         (c)   No sign be posted on any private property without the written
permission of the property owner;
         (d)   No sign shall be permitted which is attached to a utility pole
or street sign, or is attached to or painted on tree trunks, rocks, or other
natural objects; and
         (e)   All signs advertising the sale shall be removed at the end of
the permitted time.
   (F)   Public address system. That no public address system be used.
   (G)   Alcoholic beverages. That no alcoholic beverages of any type be served
or given on or near the premises.
   (H)   Sale hours. The hours of the sale shall be from daylight to dark.
Sunday sales shall be from daylight to dark. Sunday sales shall adhere to the
Lexington County Blue Law Regulations.
   (I)   Non-profit organizations. Non-profit organizations will be required to
obtain a permit, but the fee shall be waived.
   (J)   Enforcement. If upon inspection by the Municipal Clerk or his or her
designee, the Inspector, or a police member, he or she finds that in his or her
opinion the section is being violated, a citation will be issued or the right
to continue with the sale will be terminated at once.
   (K)   Violation. The owner of any residence and/or the person to whom a
permit is issued for the purpose of having a garage sale under this section who
shall fail to comply with any part of it shall, upon conviction thereof before
the town judge, be fined the maximum amount able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-
25-65 without indictment by grand jury or imprisoned not more than 30 days for
each offense.
(1985 Code, § 9-46)
USE REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS (D-1)
§ 158.070 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide for tracts of land located
primarily on the fringe of urban growth where the predominant characteristic of
urban development have not yet been fully established, but where the current
characteristics of use are predominantly residential, agricultural, or semi-
developed, with scattered related uses.
   (B)   The future demand for developable land will generate requests for
amendments in zone designations to remove land from the D-1 classification and
place it into other more intensely developed classifications as a natural
consequence of urban expansion.
(1985 Code, § 9-56)
§ 158.071 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Single-family dwellings on individual lots.
   (B)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings and uses of structures
customarily incidental to any permitted use, provided the structures shall not
be located in any required front or side yards and no structure shall be less
than five (5) feet from any property line or principal building.
   (C)   Agriculture uses. Agriculture uses such as general farming dairy
farming, truck farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries, forestry,
wild crop harvesting, vineyards and orchards.
   (D)   Customary home occupations. Customary home occupations as defined in
Chapter 116, Home Occupations.
   (E)   Public utilities. Distribution lines, transformer stations, sanitation
facilities, water tanks and towers, telephone exchanges with no vehicles or
equipment stored on the premises. All district yard requirements must be met
and all uses must be suitably screened against light, fumes, noise, or
unsightliness, protected against becoming attractive nuisances and designed so
as not to cause interference with radio or television reception.
   (F)   Signs. Subject to the provisions of §
158.160 et seq.
(1985 Code, § 9-57) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.072 PERMITTED SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Only after public notice and public hearing, subject to all
appropriate conditions and safeguards, specifically §
158.227, the Board of Appeals may permit a special exception.
   (B)   Mobile/manufactured home to be skirted with commercial skirting
material or masonry perimeters within 90 days from the date of the zoning
permit issued.
   (C)   Any mobile home not skirted after 180 days will be subject to
penalties.
(1985 Code, § 9-58) Penalty, see
158.999
USE REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1, R-2, R-3)
§ 158.085 INTENT.
   To establish residential districts and to protect property in the districts
from the depreciating effects of incompatible land uses. Residential uses are
intended to be the primary use within each district.
(1985 Code, § 9-66)
§ 158.086 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (SINGLE-FAMILY).
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a low-density, single-family district and to
protect property in the district from the depreciating effect of incompatible
land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental
to any permitted uses, provided no accessory structures shall be located in any
required front or side yards and no structure shall be less than five (5) feet
from any property line or principal building.
      (3)   Signs subject to the provisions of§
158.160 et seq.
      (4)   Home occupations subject to the provisions of
Chapter 116, Home Occupations.
   (C)   Churches. Churches, private schools and recreational facilities
located in mobile homes shall be considered as mobile homes, and not as
churches, schools or recreational facilities.
   (D)   Permitted special exceptions. Only after public notice and public
hearing, subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards, the Board of Appeals
may permit a special exception.
      (1)   Nursing or convalescent homes;
      (2)   Hospital and medical treatment facilities;
      (3)   Government buildings and uses except those relating to purpose of
penology and correction;
      (4)   Nursery schools and kindergartens subject to the provision of §
158.139;
      (5)   Mobile/manufactured homes that are compatible with the immediate
surrounding architecture or structures, to be skirted with commercial skirting
materials or masonry perimeters within 90 days from date of zoning permit;
      (6)   Pub1ic and semi-public recreational facilities and uses not
operated for profit, which may include parks, playgrounds, country clubs,
community centers, neighborhood buildings;
      (7)   Churches, including Sunday school or educational buildings and
other places of worship; and
      (8)   Schools.
(1985 Code, § 9-67) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.087 R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (DUPLEX).
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a medium density, duplex residential district,
exclusive of commercial and industrial uses, which will protect property in the
district from depreciating effects of incompatible land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family and 2-family dwellings on individual lots, and in
group housing projects subject to §
158.135;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental
to any permitted uses, provided no accessory structure shall be located in any
required front yard or side yards and the structure shall be less than five (5)
feet from any property line or principal building;
      (3)   Churches and other places of worship, including Sunday schools and
other educational buildings;
      (4)   Schools;
      (5)   Public and semi-public recreational facilities and uses not
operated for profit, which may include parks, playgrounds, country clubs,
community centers, neighborhood building;
      (6)   Home occupations subject to the provisions of
Chapter 116, Home Occupations.
      (7)   Signs subject to the provisions of §
158.160 et seq.;
      (8)   Nursery or kindergarten schools provided all state requirements are
met and subject to the provisions of §
158.139; and
   (C)   Churches. Churches, private schools, and recreational facilities
located in mobile homes shall be considered as mobile homes, and not as
churches, schools or recreational facilities.
   (D)   Permitted special exceptions.
      (1)   Public utilities, transformer stations, water tanks, and towers,
electrical transmission lines and towers, telephone exchanges with no vehicle
or equipment storage;
      (2)   Nursing or convalescent homes;
      (3)   Private, non-profit clubs and lodges;
      (4)   Libraries;
      (5)   Hospital or medical treatment facilities;
      (6)   Governmental buildings and uses, except those used for corrections
and penology; and
      (7)   Mobile/manufactured homes to be skirted with commercial skirting
material or masonry perimeters within 90 days from the date of the zoning
permit issued.
(1985 Code, § 9-68) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.088 R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MULTI-FAMILY).
   (A)   Purpose. To establish a medium to high-density residential district,
exclusive of commercial and industrial uses, which will protect property in the
district from the depreciating effects of incompatible land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family, 2-family and multi-family dwellings on single lots,
or in group housing projects, subject to the provisions of §
158.137;
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental
to any permitted use, provided that no accessory building is located in any
required front or side yards and no structure shall be less than five (5) feet
from any property line or principal building;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Churches and other places of worship, including Sunday schools and
educational buildings;
      (5)   Public and semi-public grounds for games and sports, parks, country
clubs, recreational and community centers or neighborhood buildings and
activities not operated for profit;
      (6)   Rooming and boarding houses;
      (7)   Home occupations subject to the provisions of
Chapter 116, Home Occupations.
      (8)   Signs subject to the provisions of §
158.160 et seq.
      (9)   Public utilities, transformer stations, water- tanks and towers,
electrical transmission lines and towers, telephone exchanges with no vehicles
or equipment stored on the premises;
      (10)   Nursing and convalescent homes;
      (11)   Private, non-profit clubs and lodges;
      (12)   Libraries;
      (13)   Hospital or medical treatment facilities;
      (14)   Governmental buildings and uses, except those used for corrections
or penology;
      (15)   Nursery schools and kindergartens provided all state requirements
are met and subject to the provisions of § 158.139.
   (C)   Permitted special exceptions. Mobile home parks subject to the
provisions of Chapter 152, South Congaree Mobile Home Park Chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-69) Penalty, see §
158.999
USE REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-1, C-2)
§ 158.100 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-1).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This district is intended to be a general commercial zone,
exclusive of industrial uses, in which a wide variety of commercial facilities
can be located serving a large market area.
      (2)   Residential uses are also permitted in this zone as principal uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental
to any permitted use, provided the structures shall not be located in any
required front or side yards and no structure shall be less than ten (10) feet
from any property lines or principal building;
      (2)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics;
      (3)   Automobile servicing including gasoline and repair, excluding
wrecker service and towing services;
      (4)   Banks and other financial institutions;
      (5)   Day nurseries and kindergartens, subject to the provisions of §
158.139 (public and private);
      (6)   Dwelling units in connection with permitted or permissible uses or
structures located on the same premises therewith;
      (7)   Eating and drinking establishments including drive-in facilities;
      (8)   Farm equipment sales and services establishments;
      (9)   Funeral homes;
      (10)   Group commercial development subject to the provisions of §
158.135;
      (11)   Hotels and motels;
      (12)   Light manufacturing uses such as a bakery, dairy products,
processing, soft drink bottling, dry cleaning plant and electronic production;
      (13)   Offices, such as business, professional, governmental or civic
organizations;
      (14)   Printing establishments;
      (15)   Public buildings and land uses of a governmental or administrative
nature;
      (16)   Public utility substations;
      (17)   Recreational facilities, such as clubs, lodges, museums, and
related cultural establishments, and commercial recreational facilities and
uses subject to provisions in §
158.143;
      (18)   Rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes, orphanages,
sanitariums, and hospitals; provided that no facility shall have a lot of less
than two (2) acres, and no building in connection with the facility shall be
closer than 25 feet from any property line.
      (19)   Retail establishments;
      (20)   School facilities, such as public or private schools located in
permanent structures;
      (21)   Service establishments, such as personal, business, professional
and repair;
      (22)   Signs, subject to the provisions of §
158.160 et seq.;
      (23)   TV and radio studios;
      (24)   Dwelling units other than manufactured or mobile homes; and
      (25)   Any other commercial use not specifically listed above which would
be in the harmony with the purpose of this district.
(1985 Code, § 9-76) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.101 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (C-2).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This district is intended for those commercial uses which are
beneficial to residential districts.
      (2)   It is a buffer between neighborhoods and more intense commercial
development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental
to any permitted use, provided the structures shall not be located in any
required front or side yards and no structure shall be less than ten (10) feet
from any property lines or principal building;
      (2)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics;
      (3)   Churches, or other places of worship, including educational
facilities;
      (4)   Day nurseries and kindergartens subject to the provisions of §
158.139;
      (5)   Dwelling units associated with permitted uses and located on the
same lot therewith;
      (6)   Government buildings and uses, except those concerned with
correction or penology;
      (7)   Medical treatment facilities such as dentist's and doctor’s
offices;
      (8)   Libraries;
      (9)   Nursing and convalescent homes; and
      (10)   Public and semi-public recreation and community centers and uses
not operated for profit.
   (C)   Special exceptions.
      (1)   Private, non-profit clubs and lodges;
      (2)   Public utilities, transformer stations, water tanks, electrical
transmission lines and towers, and telephone exchanges, provided that no
vehicles or equipment are stored on the premises;
      (3)   Schools; and
      (4)   Single-family or two (2)-family dwellings on individual lots or
housing developments.
(1985 Code, § 9-77) Penalty, see §
158.999
USE REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)
§ 158.115 INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide areas for industrial and closely
related uses, to encourage the proper design, placement and grouping of
industrial uses, and to protect adjacent districts from potentially harmful
effects.
   (B) This district is not intended to accommodate general retail commercial
uses or residential uses.
(1985 Code, § 9-86)
§ 158.116 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and uses of structures customarily incidental to
any permitted use, provided the structures shall not be located in any required
front or side yards and no structure shall be less than ten (10) feet from any
property line or principal building;
   (B)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, dairy farming, truck
farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry,
wild crop harvesting, vineyards and orchards;
   (C)   Animal hospitals and veterinary clinics;
   (D)   Automotive servicing including gasoline, repair, wrecker services and
towing services;
   (E)   Dwelling units in connection with permitted or permissible use or
structure located on the same premises therewith;
   (F)   Group development industrial group development subject to the
provisions of §
158.136;
   (G)   Junk yards, salvage yards, scrap yards, and second-hand materials
operations, including processing, display and sale thereof;
   (H)   Laundry and dry cleaning processing plants;
   (I)   Lumber and building supply yards, yards for storage of contractors
equipment and supplies, outdoor storage of materials, supplies or equipment.
   (J)   (1)   Light manufacturing such as bakeries, dairy processing, soft
drink bottling, dry cleaning plants and electronic production; and
      (2)   Manufacturing plants, processing plants, and industrial uses which
would not produce excessive noise, excessive vibration, excessive smoke or
particulate matter in the atmosphere, offensive odors, excessive levels of
toxic or noxious matter in the atmosphere or in the water bodies, dangerous
levels of radiation, hazards of fire or explosion, excessive humidity, heat, or
glare, or electromagnetic interference, or other similar conditions which would
be incompatible with adjacent development outside of the industrial district in
which the use is located. Where reasonable doubt exists as to whether or not a
particular use may exceed the limitations described above, the Zoning
Administrator may refer the question to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
determination.
   (K)   (1)   Offices, storage yards, and other facilities of the building
trades such as building, mechanical or electrical contractors; and
      (2)   Business offices associated with, and secondary to, individual
industrial uses within the district.
   (L)   Public buildings and land use of a governmental or administrative
nature;
   (M)   Public utilities, including all facilities, structures, or uses
associated therewith;
   (N)   Quarrying, such as sand and gravel extraction, provided that:
      (1)   The proposed operation will be visually and acoustically
inconspicuous from developed residential property;
      (2)   Trucks and other vehicles connected with the operation will not use
residential service streets in entering and leaving the site; and
      (3)   The utility of the site for other uses in the future will not be
destroyed by the proposed operation.
   (O)   Scientific, technical and medical laboratories and research
facilities;
   (P)   Signs, subject to the provisions of §
158.137;
   (Q)   Storage yards;
   (R)   Trade schools and technical schools engaging in activities of an
industrial nature;
   (S)   Truck terminals;
   (T)   Radio and television stations;
   (U)   Warehousing, wholesaling, bulk storage, supply, and distribution;
   (V)   Wholesale establishments; and
   (W)   Any other industrial uses not specifically mentioned above which will
harmonize with the character and purpose of this district. Where reasonable
doubt exists as to whether or not a particular use harmonizes with the
character and purpose of the district, the Zoning Administrator may refer the
question to the Zoning Board of Appeals for determination.
(1985 Code, § 9-87) Penalty, see §
158.999
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.130 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Single lots.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter.
      (2)   The lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous
frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
      (3)   This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   Adjoining lots. If two (2) or more adjoining lots with continuous
frontage are in a single ownership at any time after the adoption of this
chapter and the lots individually are too small to meet the yard, width, and
area requirements of the district in which they are located, the groups of lots
shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted size
and the lot or lots in one (1) ownership shall be subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-96) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.131 LOT SIZE, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
Lot Size                D-1     R-1     R-2     R-3     C-1     C-2     I-1
Minimum First Unit (Sq. 32,760* 32,760* 15,000* 15,000* 10,000* 10,000* 10,000*
Ft.)
Minimum Second Unit     N/A     N/A     10,000* 10,000* 7,500*  7,500*  7,500*
(Sq. Ft.)
Minimum Each Additional N/A     N/A     10,000* 10,000* 7,500*  7,500*  7,500*
(Sq. Ft.)
Minimum Width of Lot
(Ft.) at Front Setback  90      90      70      70      70      70      70
Line
Maximum Coverage of Lot 25      25      40      40      60      60      N/A
by Building
Yard Setback Lines (Ft.)
Minimum Front           40/35   40/35   40/35   40/35   40/35   40/35   40/35
Minimum Side            15      15      15      15      15      15      15
Minimum Rear            15      15      15      15      15      15      15
All Sides Adjoining     25      25      25      25      25      25      25
Public Road or Street
Setback from side and
rear property lines for 5       5       5       5       10**    10**    10**
accessory structures
Height of Structures    35      35      35      35      35      35      35
(Ft.)
* If no public sewer is available, these minimums or those established by
SCDHEC, whichever is greater.
** In C-1, C-2, I-1 Districts accessory structure devices incidental to serving
and roof over the structure devices are permitted within required front yards
provided that they do not constitute an impediment to visibility across the
yards which would contribute to the creation of traffic hazards, in further
provided that servicing operations in connection therewith can be conducted so
as not to interfere with public use of adjacent sidewalks or public streets.
Also any signs associated with the structures or devices must comply with
provision of this chapter.
The setback requirements of this chapter shall not apply to dwellings where the
average setback line of existing dwellings on the same side of the street is
less than the minimum required. In these cases the setback requirements shall
be the average setback aforementioned, or 10 feet, whichever is greater.
No structures shall be over 3 stories in height.
See the following for special exceptions or regulations: §§
158.135,
158.136, and
158.137 for Group Developments, §§
158.185 et seq. for Cluster Development,
Chapter 152 for South Congaree Mobile Home Park Chapter, §
158.052 for off-street parking and storage
 
(1985 Code, § 9-97) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.132 VISION CLEARANCE.
   In any district, on any corner lot, no fence, sign, structure, planting, or
other obstruction to vision between three (3) and ten (10) feet above the
established street grades shall be erected or maintained within the line
connecting points on the street lot line 20 feet distant from the corner.
(1985 Code, § 9-99)
§ 158.133 ANNEXATION.
   Designation of zoning classification. When annexation is accomplished by
ordinance, the Town Council shall specify an interim zoning district
classification or classifications in the annexation ordinance, with the
classification or classifications to become effective upon the effective date
of the annexation. When annexation is accomplished by election or referendum,
the annexed area shall be classified R-1, with the zoning district
classification effective upon the effective date of the annexation.
(1985 Code, § 9-100)
§ 158.134 AMENDMENT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Immediately after the effective date of the annexation, the Zoning
Administrator shall initiate zoning amendment proceedings as specified by this
chapter for purposes of establishing or confirming appropriate zoning
classifications for the annexed area, and the public hearing therefor shall be
scheduled to be held not less than 60 days after the effective date of
annexation.
   (B)   Also provided that the proposal to be brought before the hearing may
either be to retain all the annexed area in the classification or
classification originally designated to be effective upon annexation or to
change all or part of the annexed area to classifications other than those
originally designated.
(1985 Code, § 9-101)
§ 158.135 GROUP DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Group developments consist of commercial, industrial and housing group
development projects, not to include mobile homes or mobile home parks.
   (B)   Group commercial or industrial developments consist of more than one
(1) commercial or industrial structure erected on a single lot.
   (C)   Group housing developments consist of more than one (1) residential
structure (single-family, duplex or multi-family) on a single lot.
(1985 Code, § 9-102) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.136 REGULATION; GROUP COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL.
   Group housing developments may be established in any district provided that:
   (A)   They constitute only permitted or permissible uses for the district in
which they are located; and
   (B)   They meet all lot, yard, and other requirements of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-103) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.137 REGULATION; GROUP HOUSING.
   Group housing development may be established in the following districts
provided that:
   (A)   Requirements. They meet all lot, yard, and other requirements of this
chapter;
      (1)   R-1 if the group housing development consists of single-family
residence;
      (2)   R-2 if the group housing development consist of only single-family
and duplex residences; and
      (3)   Establishment is permitted outright in R-3 and C-1 districts.
   (B)   Lot size. A group housing project shall not be permitted on a lot or
plot of ground having an
area of less than one (1) acre.
   (C)   Street access. Any building established in connection with the group
housing project which cannot properly be served by emergency or service
vehicles from an abutting street shall be made accessible to the vehicles by a
paved driveway of not less than 20 feet width, exclusive of parking spaces.
   (D)   Off-street parking. Off-street parking facilities established in
connection with developments shall be of the design, location and arrangement
that will not interfere with the efficient flow of traffic through the area and
that will not interfere with the access for emergency or service vehicle, see §
158.052.
   (E)   Separation of buildings. All buildings and structures established in
connection with the projects shall not be less than 20 feet apart.
   (F)   Setback requirements. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, all
buildings and structures established in connection with the development shall
comply with the front yard setbacks established for the district in which
located and shall be set back not less than 15 feet from any side or rear
property line. Parking facilities or driveways shall not be permitted in the
side and rear yard setbacks for a distance of ten (10) feet from the property
line.
   (G)   Uses prohibited. In no case shall a use be permitted in connection
with the development that is not permitted by this chapter in the district in
which the project is to be located.
   (H)   Position of dwelling structure. No dwelling structure established in
connection with a group housing project shall be situated on a lot as to face
the rear of another building or structure within the development or on
adjoining properties for a distance of 100 feet.
   (I)   Screening. Group housing projects shall be effectively screened along
the side and rear property lines by a planting of a vegetative, opaque screen
at least four (4) feet deep and six (6) feet tall or a solid masonry wall at
least six (6) feet tall. If a vegetative screen is selected to fulfill the
requirements of this section, the screen shall be effective within six (6)
months of the initial use of the property for residential purposes. If normal
growth does not permit the fulfillment of the requirements of this section
within the time period, a temporary wood or equivalent screen six (6) feet in
height, approved by the Zoning Administrator, shall be installed until time as
the vegetative screen meets the above requirements.
   (J)   Review by Planning Commission. Before any proposal for construction or
enlargement of any group housing development, the Planning Commission shall
review site plans, descriptions, and other materials as deemed appropriate in
order to determine that the requirements listed above will be met by the
proposed development, and further shall find that the development is in harmony
with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-104) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.138 MOBILE HOME PARK.
   A parcel of land in single ownership used or set apart for the purpose of
supplying parking space for two (2) or more mobile homes and which includes
buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as a
part of a mobile home park. (Refer to Regulation 61-40 (DHEC), S.C. Code of
1976.)
(1985 Code, § 9-105) Penalty, see §
158.999
Cross-reference:
   Mobile home parks, see
Ch. 152
Statutory reference:
   Mobile home park, see S.C. Code, Regulation 61-40 (DHEC)
§ 158.139 DAY NURSERIES AND KINDERGARTENS.
   Day nurseries and kindergartens shall comply with the following minimum
standards.
   (A)   A solid masonry wall or vegetative screening which furnishes equal
protection against noise shall be provided when determined by the Zoning
Administrator to be appropriate.
   (B)   Facilities, operation and maintenance shall meet the requirements of
the South Carolina Department of Social Services.
   (C)   An area adequate for loading and unloading children to be accommodated
shall be provided and the area shall not be located within any public right-of-
way.
(1985 Code, § 9-106) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.140 REQUIRED BUFFER.
   When the rear or side lot line of a lot zoned and used for commercial or
industrial purpose adjoins the rear or side lot line of a lot zoned for
residential purposes, the commercial or industrial property owner shall comply
with the following requirements.
   (A)   Upon a request of the owner of the residentially zoned property, filed
in the town hall with the Zoning Administrator, the commercial or industrial
property owner shall provide a vision screening buffer along the common lot
lines between the commercial/industrial property and the residential property.
   (B)   This buffer shall consist of a visual-screening fence or a solid brick
wall at least six (6) feet tall or a vegetative screen with adult vegetation
being at least six (6) feet tall and four (4) feet thick.
   (C)   A vegetative screen, if selected, must be effective within 12 months
of planting and must provide year round screening.
   (D)   Either type of screening must be approved by the Zoning Administrator
and shall be mutually agreed upon by the concerned land owners.
   (E)   After the screening request is submitted by the residential property
owner, the Zoning Administrator will notify the commercial/industrial property
owner of his or her responsibility and provide a period of six (6) months for
the responsibility to be fulfilled.
(1985 Code, § 9-107) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.141 SETBACKS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Parking facilities or driveways shall not be permitted in the side and rear
yard setbacks for a distance of four (4) feet from the property line for lots
in residential districts.
(1985 Code, § 9-108) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.142 [RESERVED.]
§ 158.143 GAME ROOM; AMUSEMENT CENTERS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate game rooms/
amusement centers to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of
the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulation to
prevent the deleterious location and concentration of game rooms within the
city.
   (B)   License required. A business license is required to operate a game
room subject to provisions of the Business License Chapter of the town.
   (C)   Location of game room/amusement center.
      (1)   Game rooms are allowed within C-1 districts; and
      (2)   Game rooms shall not be operated within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         (c)   A public park adjacent to any residential area;
         (d)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use; or
         (e)   Another game room/amusement center.
   (D)   Regulations for game room/amusement center.
      (1)   Operating times shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday, and 1:30 p.m. through 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (2)   Loitering is prohibited.
      (3)   Premises shall be equipped with lighting sufficient to illuminate
every place to which patrons are permitted access.
      (4)   Age requirements must be strictly adhered to according to the South
Carolina Code.
      (5)   On premise alcoholic consumption is prohibited.
      (6)   Parking lot shall be under jurisdiction of the Police Department. A
letter from the property owner shall be required and signs posted before a
license is issued.
      (7)   If game room/amusement center is an addition to an existing
business, it shall be in an enclosed area not visible to normal patrons.
   (E)   Compliance. Compliance of all regulations in this section shall be the
responsibility of the proprietor.
(1985 Code, § 9-110) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.144 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the continued deleterious location and concentration of sexually
oriented businesses within the city.
      (2)   The provisions of this section have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communication
materials including sexually oriented materials.
      (3)   Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this section to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
      (4)   Neither is it the intent or effect of this section to condone or
legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   (B)   Definitions.
      For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one (1) time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "certain
sexual activities” or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which,
as one (1) of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for
any form of consideration any one (1) or more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations which depict or describe "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas;" or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with "specified sexual activities." A commercial
establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not involve
the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities" or “specified anatomical areas" and still be
categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Other business purposes
will not serve to exempt the commercial establishment from being categorized as
an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one (1) of its principal
business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for consideration the
specified materials which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
         (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities;" or
         (c)   Films, motion pictures video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
         (a)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of
consideration; provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or " specified anatomical areas;" and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
         (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten (10) hours; or
         (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the
room for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas.”
      ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
      ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
      ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one (1) of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as
a new business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a
sexually oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
         (c)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
      PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license
to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
      NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
      NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or female breast.
      PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
      SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
(1) of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         (b)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
theater, escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  The male genitals in a state of sexual
arousal and/ or the vulva or more intimate parts of the female genitals.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
         (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
         (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
         (d)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in division (a) through (c) above.
      SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on 4-6-1993.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
Includes any of the following;
         (a)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   (C)   Classification. Sexually oriented businesses are classified as
follows:
      (1)   Adult arcades;
      (2)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
      (3)   Adult cabarets;
      (4)   Adult motels;
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters;
      (6)   Adult theaters;
      (7)   Escort agencies;
      (8)   Nude model studios; and
      (9)   Sexual encounter centers.
   (D)   Permit required.
      (1)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates a sexually
oriented business without a valid permit issued by the town for the particular
type of business.
      (2)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
Zoning Administrator. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or
diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of
total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six (6) inches.
      (3)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Health Department, Fire Department and building official.
      (4)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a
corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business, each individual
have a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the corporation must sign the
application for a permit as applicant.
      (5)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state, county, or
city permits and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business permit.
   (E)   Issuance of permit and fee.
      (1)   The Town Zoning Administrator shall approve the issuance of a
permit to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless he
or she finds one (1) or more of the following to be true.
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the town of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the permit or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form.
         (d)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit, by the city to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has
not been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
         (f)   The permit fee required by this section has not been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this section.
         (h)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time.
      (2)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $1,000.
   (F)   Inspection. An application of permittee shall permit representatives
of the Police Department, Health Department, Fire Department, Zoning
Department, or other city departments or agencies to inspect the premises of a
sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law,
at any time it is occupied or open for business, and it is unlawful to refuse
to permit the inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (G)   Expiration of permit.
      (1)   Each permit shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided herein. Application for
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit
will not be affected except for good cause shown.
      (2)   When the Zoning Administrator denies renewal of a permit, the
applicant shall not be issued a permit for one (1) year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to denial, the Zoning Administrator that the basis for
denial of the renewal permit has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be
granted a permit.
   (H)   Suspension of permit. The Zoning Administrator may suspend a permit
for a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a permittee or
an employee of a permittee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any division of this section;
      (2)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the
sexually oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises.
   (I)   Revocation of permit.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a permit if a cause for
suspension in division (H) above occurs and the permit has been suspended
within the preceding 12 months for willful and knowing violation of this
section.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a permit if he or she
determines that:
         (a)   A permittee knowingly gave false or misleading material
information in the application submitted to the Zoning Department during the
application process;
         (b)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use
or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
         (c)   A permittee or an employee knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
         (d)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was
suspended;
         (e)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual
conduct to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
         (f)   A permittee is delinquent in payments to the city, county or
state for any taxes or fees past due related to the sexually oriented business.
      (3)   When the Zoning Administrator revokes a permit, the revocation
shall continue for one (1) year, and the permittee shall not be issued a
sexually oriented business permit for one (1) year from the date revocation
became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Zoning Administrator finds
that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant
may be granted a permit if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the
revocation became effective.
   (J)   Transfer of permit. A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit
to another, nor shall a permittee operate a sexually oriented business under
the authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application.
   (K)   Location of sexually oriented businesses.
      (1)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business outside of a designated C-1 district.
All sexually oriented businesses shall be located with a C-1 district.
      (2)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         (c)   A public park adjacent to any residential use; or
         (d)   The property line of a lot devoted to residential use.
      (3)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,000 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
      (4)   A person commits a misdemeanor if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one (1) sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor areas of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
      (5)   For the purpose of this section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary
school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential
district or residential lot.
      (6)   For purposes of division (3) above of this section, the distance
between any two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
closest exterior wall of the structure in which each business is located.
      (7)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on 4-6-1993 that
is in violation of division (1) through (6) of this section shall be deemed a
non-conforming use. The non-conforming use will be permitted to continue for a
period not to exceed two (2) years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. The non-conforming
uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use
may be changed to a conforming use. If two (2) or more sexually oriented
businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location the sexually oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the
after established business(es) is non conforming.
      (8)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business permit of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school public park, residential district, or a
residential lot with 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid permit, and does not apply
when an application for a permit is submitted after a permit has expired or has
been revoked.
   (L)   Additional regulations for adult motels.
      (1)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or a similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable
presumption that the establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in
this chapter.
      (2)   A person commits a misdemeanor if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented business permit, he or she rents or subrents a
sleeping room to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is
rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
      (3)   For purposes of division (2) above of this section, the terms
"rent" or "subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any
form of consideration.
   (M)   Regulations for exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos.
      (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other reproduction which depicts "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas," shall comply with the following requirements.
         (a)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one (1) or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram shall be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and shall be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
(6) inches. The Zoning Administrator may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that the configuration
of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
         (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
         (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator or
his or her designee.
         (d)   It is the duty of the owners and operators of the premises to
ensure that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station. This may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee.
         (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Video reproduction equipment shall not be allowed in restrooms. If
the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner that there is an
unobstructed view from at least one (1) of the manager's stations of each area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. The
view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
         (f)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators, and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure
that the view area specified in division (e) above remains unobstructed by any
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and in every
booth or room in which viewing of videos, as defined in division (a) above is
taking place, the bottom of the door must be at least 18 inches above the floor
level, and to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will, not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (a) above of this
section.
         (g)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at
any time.
         (h)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than one (1) footcandle as
measured at the floor level.
         (i)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operators and it shall
also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure
that the illumination described above, is maintained at all times that any
patron is present on the premises.
      (2)   A person having a duty under divisions (a) through (i) above
commits a misdemeanor if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
   (N)   Exemptions. It is a defense to prosecution under this section that a
person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of South Carolina, a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
education programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one (1) time.
(1985 Code, § 9-111) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.145 AUTHORIZING CERTAIN DWELLINGS AND BUILDINGS TO BE DECLARED UNFIT AND
DEMOLISHED.
   (A)   Authority. Whenever the governing body, Zoning Administrator or their
designated representative finds that there exist in the town dwellings or
buildings which are unfit for human habitation and/or other use due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or other
conditions rendering the dwellings or buildings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous
or detrimental to the health, safety or morals or otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of South Congaree, the governing body, Zoning
Administrator or their designated representative(s) may, upon the approval of a
majority of the members of Council, exercise the town’s police powers to
repair, close or demolish any dwellings or building.
   (B)   Filing of complaint and investigation. That whenever a complaint or
petition is filed with the governing body, Zoning Administrator or their other
designated representative(s), by any one (1) of the administrative heads of the
town departments which routinely deals with areas relevant to this statute, or
by at least five (5) residents or property owners of the town who have some
portions of their property within 2,000 feet of some portion of the property
upon which the dwelling or building or other structure is located, charging
that any dwelling or building or other structure is unfit for human habitation,
or whenever it appears to the governing body, Zoning Administrator or their
other designated representative(s) (on their own motion) that any dwelling or
building or other structure is unfit for human habitation, the governing body,
Zoning Administrator, and or their designated representative shall, if his or
her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue and
cause to be served upon the owner of and all parties in interest in a dwelling
or building or other structure, a complaint and notice in letter form (return
receipt requested) stating the charges in that respect and that a hearing will
be held before the governing body, Zoning Administrator or other designated
representative(s) no less than ten (10) calendar days nor more than 30 calendar
days after the service of the complaint or letter, that the owner and parties
in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint in
letter form and to appear in person or otherwise and give testimony at the
place and time fixed in the complaint, and that the rules of evidence
prevailing in the courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in the
hearings.
   (C)   Notice to owner and necessary action by owner.
      (1)   If, after the notice and hearing, the governing body, Zoning
Administrator and or their designated representative(s) determines that a
dwelling or building or other structure under consideration is unfit for human
habitation, it shall be stated in writing.
      (2)   The writing is to include the findings of fact in support of the
determination, and this writing shall be issued and caused to be served upon
the owner of the property together with or in the form of a notice.
         (a)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or
building or other structure can be made at a reasonable cost in relation to the
value of the dwelling or building or other structure, the owner shall be
required within the time specified in order to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or building or other structure to render it fit for human habitation;
or
         (b)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling or
building or other structure cannot be made at a reasonable cost in relation to
the value of the dwelling or building or other structure, the owner shall be
required, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish the
dwelling or building.
   (D)   Failure to comply. If the owner fails to comply with the order to
repair, alter or improve or remove and demolish, the governing body, Zoning
Administrator, and or their designated representative(s), may cause the
dwellings or building or other structure to be repaired, altered or improved,
or removed, or demolished.
   (E)   Removal or demolition. If the owner fails to comply with the order to
remove or demolish the dwelling or building or other structure, the governing
body, Zoning Administrator, or their other designated representative(s), may
cause the dwelling or building or other structure to be removed or demolished.
   (F)   Costs. The amount of the cost of the repairs, alterations or
improvements, or removal or demolition by the Town of South Congaree shall be a
lien against the real property placed and collected through appropriate
judicial process.
   (G)   Unfitness.
      (1)   A dwelling or building or other structure is unfit for human
habitation if conditions exist in the dwelling, or building or other structure
which are dangerous or injurious to health or safety of the occupants of the
dwelling, building or other structure, the occupants of neighboring dwelling or
building or other structures, or other residents of the town.
      (2)   The conditions may include the following, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing: defects therein increasing the hazards of fire,
accidents, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities; dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; uncleanliness; and any
other conditions in a reasonable way relating to unfitness for human habitation
as previously set forth.
   (H)   Service of complaint.
      (1)   Complaints by letter or orders hereunder shall be delivered to and/
or served upon the persons either personally or by registered mail (return
receipt requested), but if the whereabouts of the persons are unknown and
cannot be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the governing
body, Zoning Administrator, and/or other designated representatives shall make
an affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon
the persons may be made by publishing it once each week for two (2) consecutive
weeks in a newspaper printed and published in the town/county.
      (2)   A copy of the complaint or order shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
      (3)   A copy of the complaint or order shall be filed with the Town
Zoning Administrator and the filings of the complaint or order shall have the
same force and effect as other lis pendens notices provided by law.
   (I)   Rights of persons affected by orders.
      (1)   Any person affected by an order issued by the governing body,
Zoning Administrator or their designated representative(s), may within 60 days
after the posting and service of the order, petition the circuit court for an
injunction restraining the governing body, Zoning Administrator or their
designated representative(s) from carrying out the provisions of the order, and
the court may, upon the petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining the
public officer pending the final disposition of the cause.
      (2)   Hearings shall be had by the court on the petitions within 20 days
or as soon thereafter as possible and shall be give preference over other
matters on the court's calendar as authorized by S.C. Code § 31-15-370, as
amended.
      (3)   The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall
enter the final order or decree as law and justice may require.
      (4)   In all proceedings, the findings of the public officer as to the
facts, if supported by evidence, shall be conclusive.
      (5)   Costs shall be at the discretion of the court.
      (6)   The remedies herein provided shall be exclusive remedies, and no
person affected, by an order of the public officer shall be entitled to recover
any damages for action taken pursuant to any order of the governing body,
Zoning Administrator and or other designated representative(s) or because of
compliance by the person with any order of the public officer.
   (J)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The governing body, Zoning Administrator or their designated
representative(s), may exercise powers and duties as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purposes and provisions of this
section.
      (2)   The following powers in addition to others herein granted:
         (a)   To investigate the dwelling or building or other structure
conditions in the town in order to determine which dwellings or buildings or
other structures therein are unfit for human habitation;
         (b)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and
receive evidence;
         (c)   To enter upon premises for the purposes of making examinations,
provided the entries be made in a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
         (d)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and
employees as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of the
section; and
         (e)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
section to officers and agents as he or she may choose.
   (K)   Proceeds of sale of materials. If a dwelling or building or other
structure is removed or demolished by the governing body, Zoning Administrator
or other designated representative(s), he or she shall sell the materials of
the dwelling or building other structure and shall credit the proceeds of the
sale against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any balance remaining
shall be deposited with the court by the governing body, Zoning Administrator,
and or their other designated representative(s) and shall be secured in a
manner as may be directed by the court and shall be disbursed by the court to
the persons found to be entitled thereto by a final order or decree of the
court.
(1985 Code, § 9-112)
§ 158.146 RESTRICTIONS ON RESIDENCY OF SEX OFFENDERS.
   (A)    For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHILDREN’S RECREATIONAL FACILITY. A facility owned and operated by a
city, county, or special purpose district used for the purpose of recreational
activity for children under the age of 18.
      DAYCARE CENTER. An arrangement where, at any one (1) time, there are
three (3) or more preschool-age children, or nine (9) or more school-age
children receiving child care.
      SCHOOL. Does not include a home school or an institution of higher
education.
      WITHIN 1,000 FEET. A measurement made in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the property
on which the sex offender resides to the nearest property line of the premises
of a school, daycare center, children’s recreational facility, park, or public
playground, whichever is closer.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a sex offender who has been convicted of any of the
following offenses to reside within 1,000 feet of a school, daycare center,
children’s recreational facility, park, or public playground:
      (1)   Criminal sexual conduct with a minor, first degree;
      (2)   Criminal sexual conduct with a minor, second degree;
      (3)   Assault with intent to commit criminal sexual conduct with a minor;
or
      (4)   Kidnapping a person under 18 years of age.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a sex offender who:
      (1)   Resided within 1,000 feet of a school, daycare center, children’s
recreational facility, park, or public playground before the effective date of
this section;
      (2)   Resided within 1,000 feet of a school, daycare center, children’s
recreational facility, park, or public playground on property the sex offender
owned before the sex offender was charged with any of the offenses enumerated
in division (B);
      (3)   Resides within 1,000 feet of a school, daycare center, children’s
recreational facility, park, or public playground as a result of the
establishment of a new school, daycare center, children’s recreational
facility, park, or public playground;
      (4)   Resides in a jail, prison, detention facility, group home for
persons under the age of 21 licensed by the Department of Social Services,
residential treatment facility for persons under the age of 21 licensed by the
Department of Health and Environmental Control, or other holding facility,
including a mental health facility;
      (5)   Resides in a homeless shelter for no more than one (1) year, a
group home for persons under the age of 21 licensed by the Department of Social
Services, or a residential treatment facility for persons under the age of 21
licensed by the Department of Health and Environmental Control, and the site
was purchased by the organization prior to the effective date of this section;
      (6)   Resides in a community residential care facility, as defined in
S.C. Code § 44-7-130(6); or
      (7)   Resides in a nursing home, as defined in S.C. Code § 44-7-130(13).
   (D)   If upon registration of a sex offender, or at any other time, a local
law enforcement agency determines that a sex offender is in violation of this
section, the local law enforcement agency must, within 30 days:
      (1)   Notify the sex offender of the violation;
      (2)   Provide the sex offender with a list of areas in which the sex
offender is not permitted to reside; and
      (3)   Notify the sex offender that the sex offender has 30 days to vacate
the residence.
   (E)   If the sex offender fails to vacate the residence within 30 days of
the local law enforcement agency satisfying the requirements of division (D),
the sex offender shall be punished as provided in §
158.999.
   (F)   (1)   At the beginning of each school year, each school district must
provide:
         (a)   The names and addresses of every sex offender who resides within
1,000 feet of a school bus stop within the school district to the parents or
guardians of a student who boards or disembarks a school bus at a stop covered
by this division; or
         (b)   The hyperlink to the sex offender registry web site on the
school district’s web site for the purpose of gathering this information.
      (2)   Local law enforcement agencies must check the school districts’ web
sites to determine if each school district has complied with this division. If
a hyperlink does not appear on a school district web site, the local law
enforcement agency must contact the school district to confirm that the school
district has provided the parents or guardians with the names and addresses of
every sex offender who resides within 1,000 feet of a school bus stop within
the school district. If the local law enforcement agency determines that this
information has not been provided, the local law enforcement agency must inform
the school district that it is in violation of this division. If the school
district does not comply within 30 days after notice of its violation, the
school district is subject to equitable injunctive relief and, if the plaintiff
prevails, the district shall pay the plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs.
(Ord. passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-2009) Penalty, see §
158.999
SIGNS
§ 158.160 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the 1994 South Carolina Local
Government Comprehensive Planning, Enabling Act, S.C. Code §§ 6-29-310 through
6-29-1200, the Town of South Congaree does ordain and enact into law the
following subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-120) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.161 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all land within the incorporated limits of
the Town of South Congaree.
(1985 Code, § 9-121) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.162 TITLE AND SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Sign
Ordinance” of the Town of South Congaree.
   (B)   Subject to the landowner’s consent, a noncommercial message of any
type may be substituted for any duly permitted or allowed commercial message or
any duly permitted or allowed noncommercial message provided that the sign
structure or mounting device is legal without consideration of message content.
Such substitution of message may be made without any additional approval or
permission. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary within this subchapter. The purpose of this provision is to prevent
any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial speech or
favoring of any particular noncommercial message over another noncommercial
message. This provision does not create a right to increase the total amount of
signage on a parcel, nor does it affect the requirement that a sign structure
or mounting device be properly permitted according to all other provisions of
this subchapter and code.
(1985 Code, § 9-122) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.163 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this subchapter are to:
      (A)   Enhance the health, safety, economy, visual communication and
environment of the community;
      (B)   Promote traffic safety by providing that signs do not distract or
confuse motorists nor impair the ability of motorists to see pedestrians, other
vehicles, obstacles or traffic signs;
      (C)   Promote the safety of persons and property by providing that signs
do not create a hazard due to collapse, fire, collision, decay or abandonment;
      (D)   Promote the efficient transfer of general public and commercial
information through the use of signs;
      (E)   Safeguard the public health and comfort;
      (F)   Prevent the visual overcrowding of land, streets and highways;
      (G)   Prevent adverse community appearance; and
      (H)   Protect the character of the area.
(1985 Code, § 9-123) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.164 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)    Except as specifically defined herein, the words and phrases used in
this chapter shall have their customary meanings as defined in a standard
dictionary.
   (B)   (1)   TENSE. The present tense. Includes the future tense.
      (2)   NUMBER. The singular number, which includes the plural number. The
plural number includes the single number.
      (3)   PERSON. Includes a firm, association, partnership, trust, company,
corporation or any other entity usually defined in legal usage as a person.
      (4)   SHALL and MAY. The word SHALL is mandatory, and the word MAY is
permissive.
      (5)   LOT. Includes the words "plat" and "parcel".
      (6)   ON THE PREMISES. Shall be interpreted to mean "on the same lot" as
applied to signs.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign and its structure that has ceased to be used
when the business activity or firm that such sign advertises is no longer in
operation or when the sign no longer displays copy.
      ADVERTISING SIGN. Any sign, pictorial or otherwise, regardless of size or
shape, which directs attention to a business, commodity, attraction,
profession, service or entertainment conducted, sold, offered, manufactured,
existing or provided at a location other than on the premises where the sign is
located or to which it is affixed. Such signs are sometimes called off-premise
signs or non-point-of-sale signs and include, but are not limited to, those
signs commonly referred to as outdoor advertising signs, billboards or poster
boards.
      ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign of which all or any part thereof visibly moves in
any fashion whatsoever; and any sign which contains or uses for illumination
any light, lights, or lighting device or devices which change color, flash,
alternate, blink,  fluctuate, scintillate, show movement or motion, whirl, or
change the appearance of said or any part thereof automatically. This includes
moving message boards.
      BANNER/PENNANT. Any sign applied to or constructed of paper, plastic or
fabric of any kind (with or without a frame and with or without design or
lettering) used to decorate or attract attention to a location, object,
institution, product service or business. Flags of nations, states or political
subdivisions, shall not be considered BANNERS.
      BILLBOARD. A sign identifying, advertising and/or directing the public to
a business, merchandise, service, institution, residential area or
entertainment which is located, sold, rented, leased, produced, manufactured
and/or furnished at a place other than the real property on which said sign is
located. Such signs are also known as off-premises signs or outdoor advertising
display signs, non-point-of-sale signs, or freestanding signs. Enforcement of
provisions related to billboards (including, but not limited to, amortization
and treatment of nonconformity) is pursuant to appropriate provisions of this
chapter.
      BUSINESS SIGNS. Any sign, pictorial or otherwise, regardless of size or
shape, which directs attention to a business, commodity, attraction,
profession, service or entertainment conducted, sold, offered, manufactured,
existing or provided on the premises where the sign is located or to which it
is affixed. Such signs are sometimes called on-premises signs or point-of-sale
signs.
      CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign on which a message copy is changed manually
through the utilization of attachable letters, numbers, symbols, and other
similar characters or changeable pictorial panels. Poster panels and printed
boards are not considered CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS.
      COMMERCIAL CENTER. A commercial complex consisting of more than one
retail, business or office establishment grouped together, usually developed
under one or multiple owners or management, and generally sharing parking areas
and  vehicular entrances and exits. Commercial centers include strip malls and
indoor shopping malls; these generally may be described as areas where multiple
businesses are attached to one another in a row or rows and generally share
entranceways, parking and landscaping, as well as possible other amenities.
      COPY EXTENSION. Part of the copy of an advertising sign which extends
beyond the edge or border of the sign, sometimes called a cut-out or drop-out.
      DILAPIDATED. Reduced to or fallen into partial ruin or decay from age,
wear, or neglect.
      DIRECTORY SIGN. Any sign listing only the names, uses or locations of
more than one business, activity, firm, professional office or tenant within a
building, group of buildings or commercial center.
      DISPLAY AREA. That area of a sign including the entire area within a
regular geometric shape (square, rectangle, triangle, circle or semicircle) or
combination of regular geometric shapes enclosing all of the elements of
informational or representational matter displayed, including blank masking or
any surface shape intended to convey ideas, information or meaning. Frames or
structural members not bearing informational or representational matter shall
not be included in calculating the display area. For double-faced signs that
are parallel and supported by the same structure, the display areas of the sign
equal one-half (1/2) of the total display area of both faces. The display area
of other multiple-faced signs equals the total display area of all faces.
      EARTH TONE. Color scheme that reflects a palette of natural colors found
in rocks, soil, and vegetation. These colors are usually represented by muted
shades of brown, tan, gray, green, and red.
      FLASHING LIGHTS. Any sign used for identification, direction,
advertising, or promotional purposes that includes lighting fixtures which
flash, blink, cut on and off intermittently, and which is used as an exterior
sign; or any sign that contains an intermittent or sequential flashing light
source or  flashing illumination or which includes the illusion of intermittent
or flashing light by means of animation or an externally mounted intermittent
light source.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is permanently secured on the ground and
which is not attached to, supported by, or erected on a building or other
structure having a principal function other than support of such signs.
Temporary signs may not be transformed into permanent signs. No open space
shall be allowed between the display area and the base of the sign unless it is
landscaped. The landscaping must be approved by the Architectural Review Board.
      INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS. A single retail, commercial or office business or
activity on a separate zone lot not sharing parking areas and vehicular
entrances and exits with another activity.
      INFLATABLE. A sign that requires air or other compressed gas, whether
contained or blown, to keep and maintain its shape or which causes it to
inflate.
      INFORMATION SIGN. Any sign containing no message, copy, announcement or
decoration other than instructions or directions to the public. Such signs
include, but are not limited to, identifying restrooms, public telephones,
walkways, entrance and exit drives, freight entrances and traffic directions.
      MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign erected, stenciled, engraved on, attached to, or
suspended from a marquee. A MARQUEE is defined as any hood, awning or roof-like
structure of permanent construction without pillars or posts which is supported
from a wall of a building, projected beyond the building wall, and generally
designed and constructed to provide protection against the weather.
      MOVING MESSAGE BOARD. An automated electrical sign which uses a pattern
of lights to form various words that move or change throughout the civil day
and which may also be animated.
      PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign intended to be erected or displayed for a
period, generally more than 30 days.
      PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is not permanently fixed to the ground, a
structure, a frame, a building or another surface. Such signs include, but are
not limited to, trailer signs, sandwich board signs, sidewalk or curb signs,
and inflatable signs. A portable sign cannot be changed into a permanent sign.
      PRODUCT SIGN. Any sign which directs attention to products sold, offered
or dispensed on the premises where the sign is located.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which is erected on a building wall or
structure and extends beyond the building wall by more than 12 inches.
      ROOF LINE. The intersection of the roof, a building or structure, and the
perimeter wall of that building or structure.
      SIGN. Any device which informs or attracts the attention of persons not
on the premises on which the sign is located.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign intended to be erected or displayed for a
limited period of time, usually less than 30 days.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign attached to the exterior wall of a building or
structure, which does not extend beyond the building wall more than 12 inches.
      WINDBLOWN SIGN. Any banner, pennant, flag, spinner, streamer or other
sign designed to be moved by the wind.
(1985 Code, § 9-124) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020)
§ 158.165 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Construction standards.
      (1)   Compliance with Building Codes. All signs shall be designed and
constructed to comply with the appropriate provisions of the Town of South
Congaree Building Code for use of materials, loads and stresses.
      (2)   Wiring of electric signs. All electric signs with internal wiring
or lighting equipment and all external lighting equipment used to direct light
signs shall be installed in accordance with the National Electric Code and have
permanently installed underground electrical service. The equipment shall be UL
approved and shall be installed by a UL approved contractor.
      (3)   Clearance from high voltage power lines. All signs shall maintain
horizontal and vertical clearance from all overhead electrical conductors
provided that no sign shall be installed closer than ten (10) feet horizontally
or vertically from any conductor or public utility guy wire.
      (4)   Wind speed. All signs shall be designed to withstand a wind speed
of 95 miles per hour.
      (5)   Colors. All building, structure, fence, wall canopy, and sign
construction shall use earth tone colors. The use of other colors may be
considered provided they are consistent with existing residential structures in
the general area. The use of bright, neon, and/or fluorescent colors is
prohibited.
   (B)   Unsafe or hazardous signs.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected or allowed to remain erected that is
structurally unsafe; hazardous; or, in the opinion of the Building Inspector,
constitutes a danger to the public safety.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, any sign should
become insecure, in danger of falling, or otherwise unsafe, the owner thereof
or the person maintaining the sign shall, upon notice from the Building
Inspector, immediately remove the sign or secure it in a manner to be approved
by the Building Inspector in conformity with the provisions of these
regulations and the applicable building codes or the Building Inspector shall
have the sign removed at the expense of the owner.
   (C)   Maintenance. To ensure that signs are maintained in a safe and
aesthetic manner, the following maintenance requirements shall apply to all
signs:
      (1)   No sign shall be allowed to have more than 20% of its display area
covered with disfigured, chipped, ripped or peeling paint or poster paper for a
period of more than 30 successive days;
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to remain with a bent or broken display
area, broken supports, or loose appendages or struts; or stand more than 15
degrees away from the perpendicular for a period of more than 30 successive
days;
      (3)   No sign shall be allowed to have weeds, trees, vines or other wild
vegetation growing upon it for a period of more than 30 successive days; and
      (4)   No indirect or internally illuminated sign shall be allowed to have
only partial illumination for a period of more than 30 successive days.
   (D)   Visibility.
      (1)   The area within five (5) feet of a freestanding sign shall be kept
clear of all debris. Weeds and grass shall be no higher than 12 inches. The
area around a sign shall be properly maintained and clear of brush, trees and
other obstacles so as to make signs readily visible.
      (2)   At least one (1) sign on each individual business premise or
commercial center shall bear the street address of the business or center.
   (E)   Finish of reverse sides.
      (1)   Reverse sides of signs shall be properly finished with no exposed
electrical wires or protrusions and shall be of one (1) color.
      (2)   The reverse sides of signs shall be maintained so that no more than
20% of the reverse side shall be covered with disfigured, chipped, cracked,
ripped or peeling paint for more than 30 successive days.
   (F)   Sign illumination. Illuminated signs shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Sign illumination shall be placed so as to not to cast rays of
light directly into nearby residences, sleeping accommodations, or the eyes of
vehicle drivers;
      (2)   Floodlights, gooseneck reflectors or other external sources of
illumination shall be contained with a protective casing or shielded by
landscaping; and
      (3)   Temporary signs, as regulated by §
158.168, shall not be illuminated.
   (G)   Visibility at intersections.
      (1)   Sight area maintained. Except in the Intense Development district,
no sign or portion thereof shall be placed within the sight areas of any
intersection of public streets, private streets or driveways. In the Intense
Development district, no sign placed in the horizontal sight area may encroach
upon the vertical sight area.
      (2)   Sight area defined. The vertical dimension of a sight area is
defined as the vertical space between 30 inches and ten (10) feet in height
above the nearest edge of the right-of-way of a public street or edge of a
driveway.
      (3)    Horizontal dimension. The horizontal dimensions of sight areas are
defined as:
         (a)   At the intersection of two (2) streets, a triangle formed by the
street rights-of-way and a straight line connecting them at points 25 feet from
the right-of-way intersection;
         (b)   At the intersection of a street and driveway, a triangle formed
by the street right-of-way, the driveway's edge, and a straight line connecting
them at points 15 feet from the intersection of the right-of-way and the edge
of the driveway; and
         (c)   The sight triangle may have to be modified to meet the speed
limit requirement. Each 10 miles per hour of speed limit requires 100 feet of
visibility. For example, a 35 mile per hour speed limit requires 350 feet of
visibility.
   (H)   Content neutrality as to sign message. This code is to be considered
content neutral. Notwithstanding anything in this chapter or code to the
contrary, no sign or sign structure shall be subject to any limitation based
upon the content (viewpoint) of the message contained on such sign or
displaying on such sign structure.
   (I)   Variances. If the property is such that the required visibility cannot
be achieved, a variance request will be made at no cost to the property owner/
applicant.
   (J)   Standards. The provisions of this subchapter, in their interpretation
and application, shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and general welfare. Whenever
the requirements of this subchapter differ from the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted rules, regulations or ordinances, the more restrictive, or
that imposing the higher standards, shall govern.
(1985 Code, § 9-125) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.166 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following are not subject to the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Signs not exceeding one (1) square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
   (B)   Hiring signs, provided the total area does not exceed six (6) square
feet and the sign is posted for no more than 30 days;
   (C)   Legal notices, identification, and informational or directional signs
erected as required by governmental bodies;
   (D)   Integral decorations or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, moving lights, or any prohibited signs under
§
158.167.
   (E)   Signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in area directing and guiding
traffic on private property but bearing no commercial matter;
   (F)   Wall identification signs and commemorative plaques not more than four
(4) square feet in area, memorial cornerstones, or tablets providing
information on building erection or commemorating a person or event;
   (G)   Flags in compliance with §
158.168(F);
   (H)   Banners erected or authorized by the town;
   (I)   Temporary governmental signs, such as zoning, traffic, and the like;
   (J)   Civic club, religious, public and eleemosynary signs not exceeding six
(6) square feet whether on or off the premises, provided these signs are not
located in the public right-of-way;
   (K)   One (1) sign not exceeding six (6) square feet each of craftsmans,
artisans, house painters, contractors or subcontractors during the period that
such persons are performing repair, remodeling, repainting or improvement work
on the premises on which such signs are erected;
   (L)   Political campaign signs announcing candidates seeking public office
or relating to any election or public referendum. Such signs shall be confined
to placement on private property. Such signs shall be removed within seven (7)
days after the election or referendum has been decided.
   (M)   Weekend directional signs (WEDS) that convey directions to a specific
in-town place or event, provided that the signs meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Shall be allowed from 6:00 p.m. on Friday until 11:59 p.m. on
Sunday. It is the owner’s responsibility to remove all WEDS prior to 11:59 p.m.
on Sunday;
      (2)   Shall each be legibly marked with the owner’s name and written in
weatherproof ink or paint on at least one face;
      (3)   Shall not exceed four (4) square feet of sign area and three (3)
feet in height. WEDS may be double-faced;
      (4)   Must be stand-alone signs and shall not be affixed to any object;
      (5)    Must be firmly secured in the ground so that they will not be
blown into traffic;
      (6)   Shall be made of plastic, metal, laminated cardboard or some other
durable or waterproof material. WEDS shall not be made of paper and shall not
violate §
158.168;
      (7)   Shall contain only directional information. Advertising information
is not allowed;
      (8)   Shall not be placed more than two (2) miles from the specified
property, shall not be closer than one (1) foot from the road right-of-way, and
shall only be placed where the direction changes.
(1985 Code, § 9-126) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020)
§ 158.167 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs imitating traffic or emergency signals. No sign shall be
permitted which imitates an official traffic sign or signal; or contains words
or symbols displayed in a manner which might mislead or confuse drivers of
vehicles; or displays intermittent lights resembling the color, size, shape, or
order of lights customarily used in traffic signals, on emergency vehicles or
on law enforcement vehicles, except as part of a permitted private or public
traffic control sign.
   (B)   Audible signs. No sign shall be permitted which emits or utilizes in
any manner any sound capable of being detected on a public road or adjoining
property by a person of normal hearing.
   (C)   Flashing signs. No sign shall be permitted which utilizes flashing,
blinking, or strobetype lights, or any type of pulsating or moving lights.
   (D)   Moving signs. No sign shall be permitted which moves or presents the
illusion of movement in any manner, except windblown signs in accordance with
the provisions of §
158.168 and mechanical signs in accordance with the provisions of §
158.170(K).
   (E)   Signs attached to or painted on selected features. No sign shall be
permitted which is attached to a utility pole or street sign; or is attached to
or painted on tree trunks, rocks, or other natural objects.
   (F)   Portable signs. No portable sign shall be permitted, except in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Discontinued signs. Signs which advertise a discontinued product,
place, activity, person, institution or business shall be removed by the owner
within 30 days from the date of termination.
   (H)   Signs confusing, distracting or diverting motorists. No sign shall be
permitted which in any manner may unduly confuse, distract or divert the
attention of drivers of vehicles.
   (I)   Obstructing signs. No sign shall be permitted which interferes with
free passage from or obstructs any fire escape, downspout, window, door,
stairway, ladder, or opening providing light or air or intended as a means of
ingress or egress. No sign shall obstruct the view of roads from a pedestrian
walkway.
   (J)   Home occupation signs. Home occupations are not permitted to display
any sign pertaining to the commercial activity in the dwelling.
   (K)   Neon filled tubes. Exposed neon filled tubes or other tubes having the
appearance of exposed neon tubes are prohibited on signs or trim or the
exterior of a business. Any material used to cover the tubes must not have the
appearance of exposed neon filled tubes.
   (L)   Roof signs. Roof signs and signs that project above the rooflines are
prohibited.
   (M)   Vehicle signs. Signs on vehicles either attached to or painted on
vehicles or any type which are conspicuously parked in close proximity to the
right-of-way and are obviously parked in a way to advertise any business to the
passing motorist or pedestrian are prohibited.
    (N)   Fluorescent signs. Signs containing fluorescent colored letters and/
or background are prohibited.
   (O)   Bench signs. Bench signs are prohibited.
   (P)   Searchlights. Searchlights are prohibited.
   (Q)   Flashing and pulsating signs. Signs which contain a high intensity
illuminating device causing it to blink, flash, pulsate, fluctuate or animate
are prohibited.
   (R)   Inflatable signs. Signs that require air or other compressed gas,
whether contained or blown, to keep and maintain its shape or which cause it to
inflate or move are prohibited.
   (S)   Signs in the public right-of-way. Any sign placed on or in the public
right-of-way is prohibited.
   (T)   Windblown signs. All windblown signs are prohibited with the exception
of banners permitted and exempted in §
158.166(H).
   (U)   (1)   Balloons and gas-filled figures used to draw attention to a
business or event are prohibited.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Balloons used to announce a birth and displayed on the
residential property.
         (b)   Helium-filled balloons to be sold or given to patrons at special
events approved by the Council or special sales events.
         (c)   A temporary sign made of helium-filled balloons used for special
events. The sign cannot be used for more than three (3) days and a sign permit
must be obtained.
      (d)   Gas-filled figures used as a display for similar items for sale by
the establishment or for seasonal decorations. The figure must be located near
the establishment’s storefront, cannot interfere with traffic, and cannot be
used as a sign on the road. The figure must be properly secured.
   (V)   Animated signs. “Animated sign” means any sign of which all or any
part thereof visibly moves in any fashion whatsoever; and any sign which
contains or uses for illumination any light, lights, lighting device(s) which
change color, flash, alternate, blink, fluctuate, scintillate, show movement or
motion, whirl, or change the appearance of said or any part thereof
automatically. This includes moving message boards.
   (W)   Abandoned or dilapidated signs. All abandoned and dilapidated signs
are prohibited.
(1985 Code, § 9-127) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.168 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Contractor’s signs. One (1) sign displaying the names of the builders,
contractors, architects, engineers, craftsmen, artisans, and similar
information may be erected upon the premises of any work, construction, major
repairs or improvements. The display area of such signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in the protected Residential and Restricted Development districts
and 50 square feet in the Intense Development district. Such signs shall be
removed within seven (7) days of the completion of the work. No permit is
required for such signs.
   (B)   Real estate signs. Signs offering real estate for sale, rent or lease
are permitted. The display area of such signs shall not exceed six (6) square
feet for individual residential lots and 32 square feet for residential
property greater than ten (10) acres in size and for commercial and industrial
property. Only one (1) sign shall be permitted per individual lot and not more
than one (1) sign per road frontage for residential property greater than ten
(10) acres, commercial or industrial sites. Such signs shall be removed within
seven (7) days of the conveyance or lease of the property. No permit is
required for such signs.
   (C)   Garage or yard sale signs. On-site garage or yard sale signs are
permitted provided that the total display area shall not exceed six (6) square
feet. Such signs may be erected 24 hours before and shall be removed upon
completion of the garage or yard sale. These signs are permitted no more than
twice a year for any lot.
   (D)   Temporary subdivision signs. Temporary signs announcing a land
subdivision development may be erected on the premises of the land subdivision.
Such signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, shall be set back at least
20 feet from all property lines external to the subdivision, and shall be
spaced at least 500 feet apart. Such signs shall be removed within 30 days from
such time as 75% of the lots are conveyed. No permit is required for such
signs.
   (E)   Special events signs. One (1) portable sign or banner shall be
permitted on private property in conjunction with special events in accordance
with the following provisions:
      (1)   For the opening or closing of a business, such signs are permitted
for a period not to exceed 30 days;
      (2)   For a special sale, promotional event, or change of ownership or
management, such signs are permitted for a period not to exceed 20 days. Three
(3) 20-day periods are allowed per calendar year;
      (3)   For civic, public, charitable, educational or religious events,
such signs are permitted for a period not to exceed 20 days. Three (3) 20-day
periods are allowed per calendar year; and
      (4)   The area of the portable sign shall not exceed 32 square feet with
the largest dimension being in the horizontal position. A black matte
background with white nonreflective letters is acceptable. The sign must be on
private property and positioned so that it will not cause a traffic sight
problem.
   (F)   Flags.
      (1)   No more than three (3) flags may be displayed in Restricted,
Intense and Commercial Development districts under the following conditions:
         (a)   The maximum size of the flag flown from the flagpoles mentioned
above shall not exceed six (6) feet by ten (10) feet for 35-foot flag poles or
eight (8) feet by 12 feet for 50-foot flag poles;
         (b)   All flags shall be maintained and kept in good condition;
         (c)   Except for corporate flags, the flags shall not contain any
commercial material. Flags that contain commercial material are temporary signs
subject to the regulations contained herein. The square footage will count
toward the total allowed.
      (2)   These conditions shall not apply to the noncommercial display of
flags in Residential districts or any war memorials on sites donated by any
government.
(1985 Code, § 9-128) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020)  Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.169 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Exempt and temporary signs. Signs exempt from these regulations as
listed in §
158.166 shall be permitted in all zoning districts. Temporary signs, listed in
§
158.168 shall be permitted in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Residential subdivision and group development signs. Permanent signs
displaying no information other than the name of a residential subdivision,
group housing development, or apartment complex shall be permitted. Mobile home
park signs shall comply with the provisions of
Chapter 152, Mobile Home Parks. Such signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in
display area. No more than one (1) sign shall be permitted along each street
frontage. Such signs shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet if located
within a required setback or six (6) feet if located elsewhere. The height
restriction does not apply to gateway structures to residential development
exceeding ten (10) acres in total size.
   (C)   Public and institutional signs. Signs relating to uses of a civic,
charitable, fraternal, cultural, religious, educational, institutional or
governmental nature shall be permitted as follows:
      (1)   In C-1 district, as per the provisions regulating business signs in
§
158.170; and
      (2)   In C-1, signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in display area. Such
signs shall not exceed a height of four (4) feet if located within a required
setback or six (6) feet if located elsewhere.
(Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.170 BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   Location. Business signs shall be permitted in the Restricted
Development and Intense Development districts. Setbacks shall be five (5) feet
from all property lines in the C-1 district and ten (10) feet from all property
lines in the C-1 district.
   (B)   Individual businesses.
      (1)   Wall signs. No portion of a wall sign shall be permitted to project
over the roofline or parapet of the building to which it is attached. The
display area of a wall sign shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of
the wall of the first story of the building to which it is attached.
      (2)   Freestanding signs.
         (a)   The maximum display area for a freestanding sign is 84 square
feet if a changeable copy sign is included or 64 square feet without changeable
copy.
         (b)   Freestanding business signs shall not be more than ten (10) feet
above the grade to which it is attached or the adjacent street level, whichever
is higher. A 20% increase to the maximum height may be allowed for copy
extensions.
      (3)   Maximum number of signs.
         (a)   Except as otherwise specifically stated in these regulations, no
more than two (2) business signs of any type shall be permitted for each street
frontage on a lot on which an individual business is located.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Each 500 feet of frontage or fraction thereof on the same road
shall be counted as separate frontage.
            2.   Wall signs consisting of pre-cast building identification
letters which are an integral part of the structure shall not be counted
against the total number of signs allowed. The sign shall be counted against
the total square footage allowed.
   (C)   Commercial centers. Commercial centers are permitted the following
number of freestanding signs to include a directory sign.
      (1)   Freestanding signs. The freestanding/ directory sign shall conform
to the provisions of §
158.170(A) and §
158.170(C) and shall not exceed one (1) sign per road frontage, with a maximum
display area of 150 square feet and a maximum length of 20 feet.
      (2)   Wall signs. In addition, each business within a commercial center
may erect one (1) wall, projecting or marquee sign. Such sign shall not exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of the area of the wall of the first story of the
building or business to which it is attached.
      (3)   End caps. The end building within a shopping center, which has a
face forward a street may have two (2) wall signs as long as the total allowed
wall signage is not exceeded. One (1) sign must be on the building face and the
other on the side facing the street.
   (D)   Signs for establishments selling gasoline. In addition to other signs
allowed under this section, establishments which sell gasoline may have the
following signs:
      (1)   Signs identifying gasoline prices and/or the location of self-
service areas may be located at and secured to each pump island provided that
each sign does not exceed a surface area of nine (9) square feet per side. The
surface area can be increased to 18 square feet on the street side pump island
if no freestanding gas sign, as described in §
158.164, is utilized; and
      (2)   With the exception of a site located within a shopping center, one
(1) additional ground sign identifying gasoline prices and/or the location of
self-service areas may be located at a place other than the pump island,
provided that:
         (a)   The sign is no longer than 12 feet;
         (b)   The sign is permanently affixed to the ground; and
         (c)   The sign meets all other requirements of this section.
      (3)   Each gasoline pump may display only the brand name or emblem of the
gasoline, which shall not exceed the limits on the face of the pump.
   (E)   Marquee and projecting signs.
      (1)   Maximum height. No portion of a marquee or projecting sign shall be
permitted to project over the roofline of the building to which it is attached.
      (2)   Minimum height. No portion of a marquee or projecting sign shall be
permitted to be lower than 12 feet above ground level.
      (3)   Narrow front yards. Where front yards of less than five (5) feet in
depth are provided, a projecting sign may extend over a public right-of-way,
but in no case shall they exceed the.
   (F)   Wall signs. No portion of a wall sign shall be permitted to project
over the roofline or parapet of the building to which it is attached.
   (G)   Changeable copy signs. Any business permitted to erect a sign may
devote up to 75% of the erected sign area to one (1) manual changeable copy
sign or to one (1) moving message board.
   (H)   Awning signs. Signage on awnings shall be allowed with the following
conditions:
      (1)   Awning signage shall not be allowed in conjunction with any other
form of attached signage on the building wall to which the awning is attached,
except site identification that is less than six (6) square feet;
      (2)   The maximum area of the sign shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the square footage of the awning. The square footage of an awning is equivalent
to the area of the awning, which is visible when viewing an awning as it is
attached to a building wall; and
      (3)   The sign message shall not be duplicated on the building wall to
which the awning is attached.
   (I)   Product signs. Product signs shall be permitted as business signs
provided no such sign shall exceed 16 square feet in display area. The display
area of product signs shall count toward the maximum display area of signs
allowable. Product signs are temporary signs and shall comply with the
restrictions in this section.
   (J)   Information signs. Information signs shall be permitted on business
lots provided that no such sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in display
area. Information signs shall not count toward the maximum number of signs
allowable or the maximum display area of signs allowable. Information signs are
limited to four (4) feet in height.
   (K)   Kiosk signs. Kiosk signs are permitted if they meet the following
conditions:
      (1)   Only one (1) sign is allowed per wall;
      (2)   Each sign is limited to 12 square feet;
      (3)   Signs cannot project over the roof or project outward from the wall
side; and
      (4)   Signs may be lit but must not flash, move or give the appearance of
being neon signs.
   (L)   Mechanically movable signs. A monument sign may have a single portion
of its face dedicated to the use of automated changeable copy. The portion of a
sign dedicated to this type of signage may not exceed 18 square feet.
Automation used to change copy must be completed by the use of a mechanical
device that utilizes interchangeable panels with letters, numbers or common
symbols to convey a message. The use of any type of lighting, including, but
not limited to, digital displays or displays using LED or LCD lighting to
convey a message, is prohibited. No photographs, depictions or animation of any
kind may be used to convey a message. Any type of lighting within the automated
changeable copy portion of the sign is prohibited except backlighting. No panel
within an automated changeable copy portion of a sign can change more
frequently that one (1) time in a 12-hour period.
   (M)   Advertising signs. All off-premise signs are prohibited except those
authorized by §
158.166(M). Existing advertising signs currently in the town limits or those
that are annexed into town shall be allowed to continue as nonconforming signs.
Those nonconforming signs shall not be allowed to enlarge, extend or convert to
electric billboards. Change of copy and regular/ordinary maintenance shall be
allowed.
(1985 Code, § 9-129) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.171 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   (a)   Permanent signs which become non-conforming upon the adoption
or amendment of this subchapter and those signs which were grandfathered are
declared to be inconsistent with the purposes of this subchapter. Such signs
will be brought into conformity by 12:00 a.m. on December 1, 2020.
         (b)   Signs in newly annexed areas that become non-conforming upon
annexation after December 1, 2020, shall be removed, changed, altered or
otherwise brought into conformity within two (2) years of the date of
annexation into the town.
      (2)   Reconstruction. A non-conforming sign shall not be extended or
enlarged except in accordance with this section.
      (3)   Extension or enlargement. A non-conforming sign shall not be
extended or enlarged except in accordance with this section.
      (4)   Reconstruction after damage. A non-conforming sign shall not be
rebuilt, altered, or repaired except in conformity with these regulations after
sustaining damage exceeding 20% of the replacement cost of the sign at the time
of the damage.
      (5)   Ordinary maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prevent the ordinary maintenance and repair of a non-conforming sign or
replacement of a broken part of a non-conforming sign.
      (6)   Change of copy. No non-conforming sign may be altered by changing
copy other than reader board signs. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
prevent the ordinary change of copy on an advertising sign or a business
changeable copy sign. Changing the copy (face of the sign) does require a sign
permit.
      (7)   Abandonment of non-conforming signs. Whenever a non-conforming sign
has been abandoned or the use of the property has been discontinued for a
continuous period of 90 days, the non-conforming sign shall be removed.
   (B)   Temporary signs. All temporary signs not meeting the requirements of
this subchapter must be removed or changed to comply within 30 days of the date
of the adoption of this subchapter.
   (C)   (1)   Change in business. Whenever any non-conforming sign or part
thereof is altered, replaced, converted or changed due to a change in business,
attraction, service, ownership or management, the entire sign shall be brought
into compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   Exception: commercial centers. Nothing in this section should be
construed to require a shopping center sign to be brought into compliance
because of changes in tenants in the ordinary course of business.
   (D)   Substantial repairs, remodeling or expansion. Whenever a business is
repaired, altered, remodeled, or expanded to the extent exceeding 33% of the
current replacement costs of the building within any period of 12 consecutive
months, all signs, other than freestanding signs, shall be brought into
compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Illegal signs. Signs which were erected without a sign permit are
declared illegal and are not grandfathered under §
158.170. All illegal signs must be removed within 30 days after the adoption of
this subchapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-130) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.172 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Town of South Congaree permits. Except as otherwise specifically
stated in this subchapter, no sign shall be erected, placed, replaced or
altered without the owner or agent of the owner having obtained a sign permit.
      (2)   State of South Carolina permits. Businesses and advertising signs
on federal highways require permits from the State of South Carolina. A copy of
this permit must be furnished to the town’s Building Department before the sign
can be erected.
      (3)   Application for permit.
         (a)   All applications for sign permits shall be made to the Zoning
Official or his or her representative.
         (b)   The following information shall be submitted with the
application:
            1.    Documentation of ownership of property on which the sign is
to be erected or written authorization by the owner of the property;
            2.   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
            3.   Site plan showing the precise location of the sign in respect
to property and right-of-way lines and any buildings or other improvements on
the property;
            4.   Exact size, nature and type of sign to be erected; and
            5.   Any other information, specifications, or the like deemed
necessary by the Building Official.
      (4)   Expiration of approval. If a building permit is not obtained within
one (1) year of the sign plans being approved, the approval will expire.
      (5)   Expiration of permit. Any permit issued for the erection of a sign
shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it shall have been started
within six (6) months of its issuance and completed within 12 months of its
issuance.
   (B)   Amendments. This subchapter may be amended by the Town Council of the
Town of South Congaree in accordance with the procedures established by Title 6
of the Code of Laws of 1976.
   (C)   Appeals. Any person who feels the Zoning Official has erred in the
interpretation or enforcement of these regulations may appeal such decision to
the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Variances. A variance may be granted from the provisions of these
regulations by the Zoning Board of Appeals as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Failure to obtain permit. If a sign is erected without a permit, and a
permit is subsequently obtained, the fee for the permit and business license
shall be doubled.
   (F)   Impoundment of signs.
      (1)   If any sign requiring a permit is erected without a permit, or if
any sign is erected in violation of these regulations, the Zoning Official or
dually authorized representative shall have the authority to give the owner
thereof written notice of such violation. The notice shall include a brief
statement of the particulars in which the violation is to be remedied. If the
sign has been permitted, notice to the person receiving the permit shall be
sufficient. If a sign has not been permitted and the owner is not known, a
highly visible sticker reading "VIOLATION" shall be attached to the sign for a
period of ten (10) days. If the sign owner cannot be found, the duty to perform
corrections or removal of the sign will be upon the property owner on whose
property the sign is located.
      (2)   If within ten (10) days the owner of the sign fails to contact the
Zoning Official, bring the sign into conformance with these regulations and
obtain a sign permit, the Building Official shall have the authority to have
the sign removed and impounded without further notice and the cost of removal
shall constitute a lien against the property on which the sign is located. The
town shall not be liable for any damage to the sign or property as a result of
such removal.
      (3)   The Zoning Official shall have the authority to remove and impound,
without notice to the owners thereof, any signs placed within any street right-
of-way; signs attached to trees, rocks, or other natural features; and signs
attached to telephone and utility poles.
   (G)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Any person violating, by act or omission, any provision of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine
not exceeding $500, 30 days in jail, or both, at the discretion of the court.
      (2)   Where such an act or omission is continued in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter after notice of the violation by the Zoning
Official, each and every day during which such act or omission continues shall
be deemed a separate violation.
      (3)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof and any sign company, contractor, architect, surveyor, builder,
engineer, agent, or other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or
maintains such violations may each be found guilty of a separate offense and
suffer the penalties herein provided.
   (H)   Fees. In order to defray some of the administrative costs associated
with processing permit applications and inspecting signs, the following fees
shall apply.
      (1)   Regular fees. Calculated as prescribed by the Building Codes
ordinance of the Town of South Congaree.
      (2)   Temporary sign. Twenty dollars per sign per use period.
      (3)   Reinspection fee. Twenty-five dollars.
(1985 Code, § 9-131) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 20-22,
passed 10-20-2020)
§ 158.173 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Official, assisted by Public Safety, will be responsible for the
enforcement of this subchapter. All regulations, proceedings or penalties of
this sign ordinance are pursuant to the authority and purpose of the South
Congaree Zoning Chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-132) (Am. Ord. 2019-11, passed 12-10-2019)
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT
§ 158.185 INTENT.
   It is the intent of these regulations to encourage variety and flexibility
in land development and land use for residential and commercial areas, subject
to the purpose of zoning and the conditions and safeguards which will promote
the land development plan; to provide a harmonious relationship with
surrounding development, minimizing the influences as land use
incompatibilities, heavy traffic and congestion, and excessive demands on
existing and planned public facilities, to provide a means of developing areas
of physiographic and other physical features to enhance natural beauty and
other attributes, and in so doing, to provide for the use of the lands as
recreational space for the residents of the developments; to encourage the
efficient use of those public facilities required in connection with new
residential and commercial development; and to encourage innovative design
techniques to utilize the environment as a guide to development such as, but
not limited to, zero lot lines, party walls, site location with regard to
energy conservation, and other concepts. The cluster development regulations
shall only be applied upon determination by the Planning Commission that the
proposed development is in harmony with the purpose and intent as stipulated
above.
(1985 Code, § 9-136)
§ 158.186 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLUSTER COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT. A concentration of commercial buildings, or
units thereof, constructed on individual lots. Individual lots shall be located
within an overall tract of land held in common ownership by individual property
owners. Land held in common ownership. shall be reserved for common open space.
   CLUSTER COMMERCIAL UNIT. A building or unit of a building on its own lot,
located within a cluster commercial development.
   CLUSTER HOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit, either attached or detached,
on its own lot located within a cluster housing development.
   CLUSTER HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A concentration of single-family dwelling units
constructed on individual lots. Individual lots shall be located within an
overall tract of land held in common ownership by individual property owners
and reserved for common open space.
(1985 Code, § 9-137)
§ 158.187 LOCATION AND MINIMUM SIZE.
   (A)   Cluster developments shall provide for individual lots of no minimum
size upon which is permitted one (1) dwelling unit in a single structure. Up to
four (4) units may be attached (Party wall, see diagram, Appendix A.). Mobile
homes are excluded from consideration as a cluster development.
   (B)   The diagram in the Appendix is illustrative of the dwelling unit
attached and detached concepts of cluster developments.
   (C)   Cluster developments shall be permitted in the following zone
districts: R-2, R-3, C-1.
   (D)   Cluster developments shall contain a minimum of two (2) acres.
(1985 Code, § 9-138)
Cross-reference:
   Enforcement, see §
158.172
§ 158.188 DENSITY AND RECREATION AREA.
   (A)   The maximum overall density for a residential cluster development
shall be in terms of the number of dwelling units per gross acre of land within
the development, as provided in the table on the following page.
   (B)   The minimum total recreation area ( that part of the living space
which is any large contiguous area for recreation purposes) shall be provided
in residential cluster developments at no less than a minimum ratio of
recreation space area per total floor area, as provided in the table below.
   (C)   If a cluster development embraces one (1) or more zone districts
requiring different maximum permitted overall densities and recreation area
ratios, these values shall be calculated separately for each distinct district
and a weighted average (weighing the area in each zone district in proportion
to its share of the total area of the development in the district) of each of
these values shall be applied to the development.
 
Zone Districts Maximum Unit Density Minimum Recreation Area for Residential
                                    Cluster Development
R-2            8                    .14
R-3            16                   .14
C-1            16                   .12
 
(1985 Code, § 9-139)
§ 158.189 YARDS.
   (A)   Except as required in the following, there shall be no minimum yard
size within cluster developments.
   (B)   However, the Planning Commission shall have review authority for all
yard designations and may require larger or smaller yard sizes based up on the
particular site plans submitted for a specific development. A perimeter
boundary setback of 20 feet measured from the principal structures to the
property line shall be maintained uniformly for the total area within the
cluster development.
(1985 Code, § 9-140)
§ 158.190 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   There shall be no required minimum lot size within cluster developments,
however, the Planning Commission shall have review authority for all lot
designations and may require larger, smaller, or replatted lot sizes and/or
shapes based upon the particular site plans submitted for a specific
development
(1985 Code, § 9-141)
§ 158.191 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   The required accessory off-street parking and loading for cluster
developments shall be as stipulated in §
158.052 of this chapter, except that the Planning Commission may waive the
requirement for on-site parking to allow for clustering of parking spaces.
(1985 Code, § 9-142)
§ 158.192 RECREATION AREA MAINTENANCE.
   Provisions shall be made for the perpetual maintenance of recreation area
designated for use by the residents of a cluster development as generated by
the ratios in §
158.188 of this chapter. This may be accomplished through a homeowners
association established in accord with and chartered by the state under the
applicable regulations, or by any other means acceptable to the Planning
Commission. The association charter or declaration of incorporation shall be
submitted for approval by the Planning Commission and shall be recorded along
with the development plat(s) in the Register of Mesne Conveyance Office.
(1985 Code, § 9-143)
§ 158.193 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   A cluster development shall follow the same rules and procedures for
subdivision approval as outlined in the South Congaree Subdivision Chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-144)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 151
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 158.205 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   A Zoning Administrator designated by the Town Council shall administer
and enforce this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may be provided with the
assistance of the other persons as the South Congaree Town Council may direct.
It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of administration and
enforcement shall first be presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals only upon
reference by, or appeal from, the Zoning Administrator, and that recourse from
the decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be to the courts as provided
by law.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall administer this chapter with its
literal terms and shall have the authority to stop work not complying with the
provisions of this chapter, but shall not have the power to permit any
construction or any use or any change of use which does not conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the function of the Town
Council under this chapter shall not include hearing and deciding questions of
interpretation and enforcement which may arise, but that the Town Council shall
have only the responsibility for acting on proposals for amendment or repeal of
this chapter, and for establishing a schedule of fees and charges as herein
provided.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator, the Planning Commission, its members and
employees in the performance of its function, may enter at a reasonable time
upon any land, make examinations and survey, and place and maintain necessary
monuments and markers thereon; provided, however, that the Planning Commission
shall be liable for any injury or damage to property resulting therefrom.
(1985 Code, § 9-151)
§ 158.206 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include:
   (A)   Interpretation of the terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Administration of the provisions of this chapter relating to zoning
permits;
   (C)   Administration of the provisions of this chapter relating to
applications for variances, appeals from an administrative decision and other
actions before the Zoning Board of Appeals;
   (D)   Administration of the provisions of this chapter relating to
applications for zoning amendments, the presentation of same to the Planning
Commission and Town Council, and giving notice of hearings on the amendment
requests as specified herein;
   (E)   The receipt of complaints from persons who allege that violations of
this chapter have occurred, to properly investigate or cause to be investigated
the complaints, and to initiate or cause to be initiated action to prevent,
enjoin, abate or remove the violations;
   (F)   The maintenance of the official copy of the zoning text and zoning map
and other records and official materials as may relate to the adoption,
amendment, enforcement or administration of this chapter; and
   (G)   Other duties as may properly relate to the accomplishment of the
spirit and intent of this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-152)
§ 158.207 ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation or filling of any lot for
the construction of any building or mobile home or module or to commence
construction of any building or to commence the moving or alteration of any
building or mobile home or or module or to commence the development of land for
a use not requiring a building until the Zoning Administrator has issued a
zoning permit for the work. Form ZF.001 is to be the official zoning permit
application for the conduct of this chapter. (1985 Code, § 9-153) Penalty, see
§
158.999
§ 158.208 APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   In applying to the Zoning Administrator for a zoning permit, the
applicant shall submit an actual dimensioned sketch or scale plan indicating
the shape, size and location of the lot to be built upon; the shape, exact
size, height, use and location of all the buildings already existing on the
lot; the number of dwelling units the building is designed to accommodate, if
any, the location and dimension of the proposed building or alteration; the
setback lines of buildings on adjoining lots; off-street parking space; and
other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be essential for
determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being observed.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may waive the requirements for a scale
drawing in the case of an application for a single-family or two (2)-family
dwelling provided that sufficient information is received to insure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   If the proposed excavation, filling or construction, as set
forth in the application is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
and other ordinances of South Congaree, South Carolina, then in force, the
Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit upon payment of any required
fees.
      (2)   If a zoning permit is refused, the Zoning Administrator shall state
the refusal in writing with the cause.
   (D)   The zoning permit shall contain at least the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The block or street number(s) of the lot(s) to which the permit
applies;
      (3)   The zoning district in which the property is located;
      (4)   Whether the permit authorizes excavation or construction (if
construction, the type of structure to be built);
      (5)   The date of the application; and
      (6)   The signatures of the applicant and the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Before commencing either excavation or construction, the zoning permit
(or copy thereof) shall be placed conspicuously on the excavation or
construction and in a way that it is protected from the weather.
(1985 Code, § 9-154) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.209 CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS.
   Any zoning permit shall become invalid unless the work authorized by it has
been commenced with six (6) months of the date of its issuance, or if the works
is suspended or abandoned for any period of one (1) year.
(1985 Code, § 9-155) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.210 RECORDS OF APPLICATIONS AND CERTIFICATE.
   Records of applications for zoning permits, records of plats and plans in
connection with the permits, and records of all occupancy certificates and
denials shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator and
copies shall be furnished on request to any person have a proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(1985 Code, § 9-156)
§ 158.211 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. The complaint stating fully the causes
and basis thereof, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. He or she
shall record the complaint properly, investigate promptly and take action
thereon as provided by this chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-157)
§ 158.212 REMEDIES.
   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or any other
appropriate authority, or any adjacent or neighboring property owner who would
be damaged by the violations, in addition to other remedies, may institute
injunction or other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the violation
in the case of the building, structure, or land.
(1985 Code, § 9-159)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 158.225 ESTABLISHMENT, MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established which shall consist
of five (5) members who are residents of South Congaree, appointed by the South
Congaree Town Council.
      (2)   The term of office of the members of the Board shall be three (3)
years, provided the initial Zoning Board of Appeals established under this
chapter shall be appointed with the terms as follows:
         (a)   Two (2) to serve for one (1) year;
         (b)   Two (2) to serve for two (2) years; and
         (c)   One (1) for three (3) years.
      (3)   Their successors shall serve for three (3) years or until their
respective successors are appointed.
      (4)   (a)   Members may be removed for cause by the Town Council upon
written charges and after a public hearing.
         (b)   Vacancies shall be filled by the Town Council for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant.
         (c)   Members shall not hold any other public office in South
Congaree.
   (B)   Proceedings of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Board shall elect one (1) of its members Chairperson and one
(1) Vice chairperson who shall serve for one (1) year or until he or she is re-
elected or his or her successor is elected and qualified.
      (2)   The Board shall appoint a secretary who may be an officer of the
governing authority or of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
any chapter or resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at other times as the Board may determine. The Chairperson, or in his or
her absence, the Vice-chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses by subpoena.
      (5)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
the fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and
shall be a public record.
   (C)   Hearings, appeals, and notices.
      (1)   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the town affected
by a decision of the Zoning Administrator.
The appeal shall be taken within 30 days, as provided by the rules of the
Board, by filing with the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken
and with the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
hearing the appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the
parties in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time.
         (b)   At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney.
   (D)   Stay of proceedings.
      (1)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board of
Appeals after notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In this case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by a
court of record on application, on notice to the administrative official from
whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(1985 Code, § 9-201)
§ 158.226 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and duties.
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by the administrative official in the enforcement of this chapter provided that
the appeal must be taken within 30 days after the order, requirement, decision
or determination which is alleged to be in error is made.
   (B)   Variances. 
      (1)   (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases the variances from the terms of this chapter as will not be
contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would result in unnecessary
hardship.
         (b)   A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not be granted
by the Zoning Board of Appeals unless and until:
            1.   A written application for a variance is submitted
demonstrating:
               a.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions
pertaining to the particular piece of property in question because of its size,
shape or topography;
               b.   The application of the chapter to this particular piece of
property would create an unnecessary hardship;
               c.   The conditions are peculiar to the particular piece of
property involved;
               d.   Relief, if granted, would not cause substantial detriment
to the public good or impair the purposes and intent of the chapter or the
comprehensive plan, provided, however, that no variance may be granted for a
use of land or building or structure that is prohibited in a given district by
this chapter; and
               e.   That granting the requested variance will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of
other lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
      (2)   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same district, and no permitted use of lands, structures, or,
buildings in other districts shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a
variance.
      (3)   Notice of public hearing shall be posted on the property for which
the variance is sought and shall be published at least 15 days prior to the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the area in which the
property is located.
      (4)   The hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person, or by
agent or by attorney.
      (5)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make findings that the
requirements of division (B) above have been met by the applicant for a
variance.
      (6)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall further make finding that the
reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      (7)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall further make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
      (8)   In granting any variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this ordinance.
Violation of these conditions and safeguards, when made part of the terms under
which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of the chapter and
punishable under § 158.999.
      (9)   (a)   With respect to uses of land, buildings, and other
structures, this chapter is declared to be a definition of the public interest
by the South Congaree Town Council and the spirit of this chapter will not be
observed by any variance which permits a use not generally permitted in the
district involved or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district.
         (b)   Therefore, under no circumstances shall the Zoning Board of
Appeals grant a variance to permit a use not generally permitted in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms or this chapter in the district.
   (C)   Actions of the Board concerning appeals.  In exercising the powers set
forth in §
158.226, the Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and may make other requirements,
decisions or determinations appealed from and may make other determinations as
ought to be made, and to that end shall have the powers of the administrative
official from whom the appeal is taken.
   (D)   Vote. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant in any matter upon
which it is required to pass under §§
158.240 through
158.246. Notice in writing of the decision of the Board shall be presented to
the appellant, or postmarked, no later than the following day after the
hearing. The notice shall be signed by the secretary of Chairperson and shall
state explicitly the decision of the Board and any special terms of that
decision.
(1985 Code, § 9-202) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.227 SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Duties of the Board in reference to special exceptions.
      (1)   To hear and decide only applications for special exceptions as the
Zoning Board of Appeals is specifically authorized to passed upon by the terms
of this chapter;
      (2)   To decide questions that are involved in determining whether
special exceptions should be granted;
      (3)   To prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity
with this chapter;
      (4)   To deny special exceptions when not in harmony with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   A written application for a special exception shall be submitted
indicating the section of this chapter which the special exception is being
sought and stating the grounds on which it is requested.
      (2)   Notices of public hearing shall be posted on the property for which
the special exception is sought and shall be published at least 15 days prior
to the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the Town of
South Congaree.
      (3)   The public hearing shall be held. Any party may appear in person,
or by agent or attorney.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall make a finding that it is
empowered under the section of this chapter described in the application to
grant the special exception, and that the granting of the special exception
will not adversely effect the public interest.
      (5)   The regulation of this chapter setting forth specific standards to
be met prior to the establishment of any special exception shall be binding
upon the Zoning Board of Appeals and no variance to the requirement shall be
granted.
      (6)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall grant no special exception for
the establishment of any use or structure which necessitates the concomitant
granting of a variance.
      (7)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe a time limit within which
the action for which the special exception is required shall be begun or
completed or both.
   (C)   Effects of failure to meet conditions.
      (1)   Violation of conditions and safeguards prescribed in conformity
with this chapter when made a part of the terms under which the special
exception is granted shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, punishable
under penalties established herein.
      (2)   Failure to begin or complete, or begin and complete, an action for
which a special exception is required, within the time limit specified when the
time limit is made a part of the terms under which the special exception is
granted shall void the special exception.
(1985 Code, § 9-203) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.228 APPEALS FROM THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision
of the Zoning Board of Appeals, or any taxpayer or any officer, department,
board or bureau of the Town of South Congaree may present to the Circuit Court
a petition, duly verified, setting forth that a decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals is illegal, in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of the
illegality.
   (B)   The petition shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the
filing of the decision.
(1985 Code, § 9-205)
§ 158.229 FUNCTIONS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR, BOARD OF APPEALS, TOWN COUNCIL AND
COURTS OF INTERPRETATION, ADMINISTRATION AND APPEAL.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that all questions of administration
and enforcement shall first be presented to the Zoning Administrator, and that
the questions shall be presented to the Zoning Board of Appeals only upon
reference by, or appeal from, the Zoning Administrator, and that recourse from
the decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be to the courts as provided
by law.
   (B)   It is further the intent of this chapter that the function of the Town
Council under this chapter shall not include hearing and deciding questions of
interpretation and enforcement which may arise, but that the Town Council shall
have only the responsibility for acting on proposals for amendment or repeal of
this chapter, and for establishing a schedule of fees and charges.
(1985 Code, § 9-206)
AMENDMENTS
§ 158.240 AMENDMENTS.
   In amending the text of this chapter or in amending the zoning map, the
procedure shall be as follows:
   (A)   Initiation of proposals of amendments. Any individual, corporation, or
agency, public or private, including the Town Council, the Planning Commission
and any department or agency of the town, may initiate a proposal for an
amendment.
   (B)   Request. The request shall be submitted in writing to the Zoning
Administrator, along with payment of a zoning amendment fee, which may be
established by the South Congaree Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 9-226)
§ 158.241 MINIMUM AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR CREATION OF NEW ZONING DISTRICTS.
   No separate zoning district of less than two (2) acres shall be created by
any amendment of this chapter, with the exception of that street frontage known
as Main Street (Highway 302) when the use is for commercial purposes only.
(1985 Code, § 9-228)
§ 158.242 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   All proposed amendments shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for reasonable study and recommendation.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall study the proposals to determine:
      (1)   The need and justification for the change;
      (2)   When pertaining to a change in the district classification of the
property, the effect of the change, if any, on the property and on surrounding
properties;
      (3)   When pertaining to a change in the district classifications of
property, the amount of land in the general area and in the town having the
same district classification as that requested; and
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed amendment to the purposes of the
general planning program, with appropriate consideration as to whether the
proposed change will further the purposes of this chapter and the comprehensive
plan.
(1985 Code, § 9-229)
§ 158.243 PLANNING COMMISSION STUDY AND REPORT TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   All proposed amendments shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, who shall then refer the proposals for amendment to the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have 30 days within which to submit a
report and recommendation to the Town Council.
   (C)   The recommendation shall be advisory only.
   (D)   If the Planning Commission does not submit its report within the
prescribed time, the Town Council shall proceed to act on the proposed
amendment.
(1985 Code, § 9-230)
§ 158.244 PUBLIC HEARING ON PROPOSED AMENDMENT.
   Before enacting an amendment to this chapter, the South Congaree Town
Council or the Planning Commission, if authorized by the governing authority,
shall hold a public hearing thereon, according to procedures outlined in this
chapter.
(1985 Code, § 9-231)
§ 158.245 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   In scheduling a public hearing concerning zoning amendments, the Town
Council shall give public notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Town of South Congaree; once at least 15 days prior thereto, which notice shall
state the time, date and place of the hearing, shall be, blocked in, and shall
have an appropriate descriptive title.
   (B)   When a proposed amendment affects the district classification of
particular pieces of property, the Zoning Administrator shall cause to be
conspicuously located on the property affected one (1) hearing notice for every
100 feet of street frontage or portion, thereof.
   (C)   The notice shall be posted at least 15 days prior to the hearing and
shall indicate the nature of the change proposed, identification of the
property affected, and time, date and place of the hearing. The notice shall be
promptly removed following the scheduled public hearing.
(1985 Code, § 9-232)
§ 158.246 RECONSIDERATION OF PROPOSED AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Council shall not consider a proposed amendment to the zoning map
if the amendment requests a change to the same zoning classification for the
same lot, parcel or portion thereof, for a period of one (1) year from the date
of fina1 determination of the prior request unless the Planning Commission
recommends to the Town Council that the reconsideration be given, after the
Planning Commission has found that either: (a) there has been a substantial
change in the character of the area; or (b) evidence or factors or conditions
exist which were not considered by the Planning Commission or the Town Council
in previous deliberations which might substantially alter the basis upon which
the previous determination was reached.
(1985 Code, § 9-233)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 158.260 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The South Congaree Town Council may establish a reasonable schedule of fees,
charges and expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, appeals,
amendments, and other matters pertaining to these regulations. This schedule of
fees shall be posted in the office of the Zoning Administrator and may be
altered or amended only by the South Congaree Town Council.
(1985 Code, § 9-246)
§ 158.261 FEES.
   The Town Council hereby sets the following fees:
 
Zoning Permit         $20
Zoning Amendment      $65
Subdivision Plat
Simple (1 to 3 lots)  $10
Complex (over 3 lots) $50
Plat (over 10 lots)   $100
 
(1985 Code, § 9-247)
   
§ 158.262 NO ACTION UNTIL FEES PAID.
   No permit, certification, or variance shall be issued or granted unless and
until the costs, charges, fees, or expenses have been paid in full, nor shall
any action be taken on proposed amendments or on proceedings before the Board
of Appeals unless and until applicable charges and fees have been paid in full.
(1985 Code, § 9-248)
LEGAL STATUS
§ 158.275 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid, that declaration shall not affect the validity
of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared
to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(1985 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I)
§ 158.276 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after 5-5-1986.
(1985 Code, Ch. 9, Art. I)
BEAUTIFICATION AND UNIFICATION
§ 158.290 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A visually appealing community increases property values, attracts
businesses, and improves the town’s image. Research shows that a nice-looking
main street promotes good behavior.
   (B)   The purpose of the Town Beautification Plan is a comprehensive long-
range plan intended to guide the beautification of public and commercial
properties along Main Street, Pine Street, and sections of Ramblin Road.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.291 ARCHITECTURE.
   (A)   Structures must be designed to be unobtrusive. In addition, all sides
of a structure should be given the same design consideration as the entrance or
street façade.
   (B)   Structures shall demonstrate the general principles of good design,
including, but not limited to, those dealing with form, mass, scale, detail,
materials, and colors.
   (C)   All architectural plans are to be submitted and subject to the South
Congaree Architectural Review Board’s approval.
   (D)   (1)   Colors.
         (a)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            EARTH TONES. Color scheme that reflects a palette of natural colors
found in rocks, soil, and vegetation. These colors are usually represented by
muted shades of blues, brown, tan, gray, green, and red. These palettes can
create a warm, nature-friendly atmosphere.
         (b)   Context.
            1.   The overall exterior color scheme must be selected to be
harmonious with the neighborhood. Earth tones must be chosen as the predominant
colors. Colors shall not be used to cause the structure to stand out from
others or its background.
            2.    Consideration must be given to the compatibility of colors
with those existing in the vicinity. The size of the structure and the amount
of shading it will receive are also factors in the selection of colors. Colors
that may be approved on sites with good tree coverage providing adequate
shading may not be approved on a site with inadequate shading.
         (c)   Hue. Any accent colors shall be of analogous tints, shades, or
tones that are low in intensity or brightness. Primary; secondary; and highly
saturated, bright tertiary colors should be avoided. Accent colors may only be
approved for very limited use where appropriate to highlight a feature of the
design or provide visual interest. A small area of brighter color may be
appropriate to emphasize an architectural detail but would not be approved for
a larger area. The number of such colors shall be limited and must be
compatible within the overall color scheme.
         (d)   Contrast. Exterior color schemes must avoid placing together
colors with values that are highly contrasting. Subtle levels of contrast are
desirable to emphasize architectural elements or to provide visual interest. A
slightly darker wall color on the bottom story of a two (2) story structure may
help reduce the visual height of the building. The use of black, white or off-
white is typically avoided and may be approved only for very limited use where
a high level of contrast is warranted.
         (e)   Samples.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a5635bf494baf82f468b2912167592f3c70a6682/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2158.png]
 
      (2)   Form.
         (a)   The form or shape of structures should avoid monotonous,
unbroken planes or unrelieved repetition of shape. Visual interest and shadow
play can be created through several techniques, including the use of offsetting
planes with a variety of depths.
         (b)   Roof form is also a key element to achieve character. Gable, hip
or shed roof forms are desirable with a minimum pitch of 6/12. In larger
structures, a variety of forms can provide greater visual interest and break up
large roof planes. Flat roof designs should generally not be used unless
concealed within another roof or other architectural element. Overhangs of
sufficient depth and in proportion to the façade height can also be important
to roof form and for shadow play.
      (3)   Materials. Generally, materials common to the area or historically
present should be selected. Suitable materials may include stucco, hardi-plank,
stone, brick, wood, metal, and glass. Other materials may be considered but in
lesser quantities. A variety of compatible contrasting textures should be used
to provide visual interest. Single material façades are generally not
appropriate. Materials should be arranged in logical fashion, lighter above
heavier, and in relationship to other materials in terms of percentage, not
equal or dominating. Reflective materials other than glass must be avoided. All
materials should be high quality and durable to be selected with the
beautification of South Congaree in mind. All materials are to be submitted and
subject to the South Congaree Architectural Review Board’s approval.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.292 LANDSCAPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of landscaping street frontages and perimeters is
to soften the visual impact of development from public view and adjacent
property and to enhance the appearance of the town.
   (B)   Trees, shrubs, grass and ground cover. Shrubs must be selected to
provide visual interest, and screen fewer desirable elements of the project.
The species used must take into consideration the site's growing conditions and
existing vegetation types. While a variety of species is desirable for texture
and color, emphasis must be given to overall order and continuity of the
landscape plan. Seasonal availability and planting time period also need to be
considered. The number of plants will be determined by the scope of the project
and the function of the landscaping. A variety of sizes is desirable to create
a "layered" appearance for visual interest and a sense of depth. Placement of
shrubs must also take into account the location of existing mature trees so as
not to damage tree roots. Proper spacing and location are required to allow for
plants to reach their mature size and natural shape while avoiding excessive or
unnatural pruning. All landscaping (trees, shrubs, grass and ground cover) are
to be submitted and subject to the South Congaree Architectural Review Board's
approval.
   (C)   Landscape plan required.
      (1)   Landscaping, planting of new vegetation, is to be used to
supplement the existing vegetation and provide for a harmonious setting for the
site's structures, parking areas or other construction. The landscape will
contain four basic elements:
         (a)   Trees;
         (b)   Shrubs;
         (c)   Groundcovers; and
         (d)   Buffers.
      (2)   It requires landscaping between dissimilar land uses, along public
rights-of-way, and within and around parking areas. A minimum overall tree
coverage based on tree diameter is required, which may be met with existing
and/or new trees. Screening for loading, trash collection, display areas, and
utility areas is required. Landscape plans are required for all new development
and certain renovations and expansions.
   (D)   (1)   Required design elements.
         (a)   Parcel(s) that adjoin or front all proposed, future, private and
public streets shall have a minimum street frontage depth of ten (10) feet.
Measurements shall begin at the property line and extend toward the interior of
the parcel(s).
         (b)   Large broad-leaved canopy trees shall average at least one tree
per 35 feet or portion thereof. Placement shall be within 20 feet of the street
frontage property line.
         (c)   Perimeter (sides and rear) landscape areas shall be a minimum of
five (5) feet wide and are required when the surface parking lot can be viewed
by adjoining property or street right-of-way.
         (d)   The street frontage, perimeter and perimeter landscape zones
shall be reserved for landscaping materials only and landscaping shall be
planted over the entire landscape zone.
      (2)   Plans are to be submitted and subject to the South Congaree
Architectural Review Board's approval.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.293 BUFFERS.
   (A)   Buffers must be clearly indicated on submitted site plans for permit
approval and are to be drawn to the same scale. Existing vegetation that will
be protected and retained as part of the buffer must be included with all new
proposed plantings within the buffer areas and identified on the required tree
survey. Proposed plantings are to be drawn depicting maturity.
   (B)   All buffers are to be submitted and subject to the South Congaree
Architectural Review Board’s approval.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 12-10-2019)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating, by act or omission, any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined the maximum amount
able to impose by S.C. Code § 14-25-65 without indictment by grand jury or 30
days in jail or both, at the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Where the an act or omission is continued in violation of the
provisions of these regulations after notice of the violation by Zoning
Administrator, each and every day during which the act or omission continues
shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part
thereof, and any architect, surveyor, builder, engineer, contractor, agent, or
other person who commits, participates in, assists in, or maintains the
violations may each be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided.
   (D)   If a sex offender is in violation of §
158.146 and fails to vacate the residence within 30 days of the local law
enforcement agency satisfying the requirements of §
158.146(D), the sex offender must be punished as follows:
      (1)   For a first offense, the sex offender is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, must be imprisoned not more than 30 days, or fined not
more than $500, or both;
      (2)   For a second offense, the sex offender is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, must be imprisoned not more than three (3) years, or
fined not more than $1,000, or both;
      (3)   For a third or subsequent offense, the sex offender is guilty of a
felony and, upon conviction, must be imprisoned for not more than five (5)
years, or fined not more than $5,000, or both.
(1985 Code, § 9-158) (Am. Ord. passed 8-18-2009)
APPENDIX: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a5635bf494baf82f468b2912167592f3c70a6682/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1400.jpg]
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-6-1985    Annexing Lee and Scurry property as described by tax map
                     number 7898, Block 3, Lot No. 9 and 12.
-        2-1-1988    Annexing Spires property located on Ramblin Road as
                     described by tax map number 07797-2-01.
-        4-4-1988    Annexing the Wilson property located at 2063 Pine Street
                     as R-1 as described by tax map number 6798-8-23.
-        4-4-1988    Annexing the Berry property as C-1 as described by tax map
                     number 06798-05-23.
                     Annexing property bounded on the east by the current town
                     limit, on the north right-of-way of Ramblin Road, on the
-        11-1-1988   west right-of-way of Crystal Lane and on the south
                     property lines of property described by tax map numbers
                     7797-2-6 and 7817-1-53.
                     Annexing property described by tax map numbers 07797-02-31
-        10-16-2000  (31.67 acres), 07797-02-36 (1.97 acres) and 07797-02-40
                     (3.05 acres).
-        2-18-2005   Annexing remaining portion of Spires property as R-
                     1 described by tax map numbers 6799-4-26 and 6799-4-27.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Mid-Carolina Electric Cooperative,
                     Inc. for the right, power and authority to erect and
-        - -         install, maintain and operate in, over, under and upon the
                     streets, alleys and public places of the town its electric
                     facilities.
-        1-1-1985    Granting a franchise to Southern Bell Telephone and
                     Telegraph Company.
                     Granting a franchise to Columbia Cable TV Company, Inc.,
-        1-10-1996   DBA Cablevisions Industries, its successors and assigns,
                     to construct, operate and maintain a cable television
                     system.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to 1985 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Section Code Section
S.C. Section                Code Section
Title 5                     156.001
5-7-30                      111.16
5-11-10 through 5-11-40     30.01
5-15-10                     34.04
5-15-61                     34.02,
                            34.05
5-15-125                    34.02
5-31-50                     111.16
Title 6                     156.001
6-29-310 et seq.            153.001
6-29-310 through 6-29-1200  158.160
6-29-360                    153.005,
                            153.020
6-29-510(E)                 153.087
6-29-760(A)                 153.006
6-29-1110(2)                153.086
7-13-190                    34.02
12-56-10 et seq.            32.40
                            36.99,
                            70.99,
                            92.01,
                            92.99,
14-25-65                    93.99,
                            130.99,
                            131.13,
                            132.99,
                            158.055,
                            158.999
16-23-20                    130.17
25                          158.138s
30-4-70(a)(1)               153.004
31, Ch. 15, Article 1       150.02
31-15-370                   158.145
40-27-110                   158.004
44-7-130(6)                 158.146
44-7-130(13)                158.146
44-95-10 et seq.            93.60
48-35-10 et seq.            92.15,
                            92.16
56-3-20                     93.50
56-3-110                    93.50
56-5-5620 through 56-5-5950 93.54
56-5-5810                   93.50
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1985 CODE
1985 Code 2005 Code
1985 Code          2005 Code
Art. I, Div. 1     93.01
Art. I, Div. 2     94.02
1-1                30.01
1-2                30.02
1-3                30.03
1-4                30.04
1-5                30.05
1-6                30.06
1-8                31.01
1-9                31.02
1-10               31.03
1-11               31.04
1-12               31.05
1-13               31.06
1-14               31.07
1-16               30.07
1-31               10.14
1-32               10.15
1-33               10.16
1-34               10.17
1-35               10.18
1-36               10.19
1-37               10.20
1-52               32.01
1-53               32.02
1-54               32.03
1-61               32.15
1-62               32.16
1-71               32.17
1-72               32.18,
                   32.36
1-81               32.19
1-82               32.20
1-83               32.21
1-84               32.22
1-85               32.23
1-91               11.01
1-92               11.02
1-101              33.01
1-102              33.02
1-103              33.03
1, 1.10            157.001
1, 1.30            157.002
2, 2.10            157.015
2, 2.20            157.016
3-1                34.01
3-2                34.02
3-3                34.03
3-5                34.41
3-6                34.04
3-7                34.05
3-9                34.06
3-11               34.07
3-12               34.08
3-13               34.09
3-14               34.10
3-15               34.25
3-16               34.26
3-17               34.27
3, 3.10            157.030
3, 3.20            157.031
3, 3.30            157.032
3, 3.40            157.033
3, 3.50            157.034
3, 3.60            157.035
3, 3.70            157.036
3, 3.80            157.037
3, 3.90            157.038
3, 3.100           157.039
4, 4.10            157.050
4, 4.20            157.051
4, 4.30            157.052
4, 4.40            157.053
5-1                30.20
5-2                30.21
5-3                30.22
5-4                30.23
5-5                30.24
5-6                30.25
5-7                30.26
5-8                30.27
5, 5.10            157.065
5, 5.20            157.066,
                   157.999
6, Part A          152.000
6, Part B          152.002
6-1                152.015
6-2                152.016
6-3                152.017
6-4                152.018
6-7                152.019
6-8                152.020
6-9                152.021
6-16               152.035
6-17               152.036
6-18               152.037
6-26               152.050
6-27               152.051
6-28               152.052
6-29               152.053
6-41               152.065
6-42               152.066
6-43               152.067
6-44               152.068
6-45               152.069
6-46               152.070
6-47               152.071
6-51               152.085
6-52               152.086
6-53               152.087
6-54               152.088
6-55               152.089
6-56               152.090
6-57               152.091
6-58               152.092
6-59               152.093
6-60               152.094
6-61               152.095
6-62               152.096
6-63               152.097
6-64               152.098
6-65               152.099
6-66               152.100
6-67               152.101
6-68               152.102
6-69               152.103
6-70               152.104
6-71               152.105
6-72               152.106
6-73               152.107
6-74               152.108
6-75               152.109
6-76               152.110
6-77               152.111
6-78               152.112
6-79               152.113
6-80               152.114
6-81               152.115
6-82               152.116
6-83               152.117
6-84               152.118
6-85               152.119
6-86               152.120
6-87               152.121
6-88               152.122
6-89               152.123
6-90               152.124
6-91               152.125
6-92               152.126
6-93               152.127
6-94               152.128
6-95               152.129
6-96               152.130
6-97               152.131
6-110              152.145
6-111              152.146
6-112              152.147
6-113              152.148
6-114              152.149
6-115              152.150
6-116              152.151
6-117              152.152
6-118              152.153
6-119              152.154
6-120              152.155
6-121              152.156
6-122              152.157
6-123              152.158
6-124              152.159
6-125              152.160
6-126              152.161 
6-127              152.162
6-128              152.163
6-129              152.164
6-136              152.175
6-137              152.176
6-141              152.190
6-142              152.191
6-151              152.205
6-152              152.206
6-153              152.207
6-161              152.220
6-171              152.235
6-181              152.999
6, 6.10            157.080
6, 6.20            157.081
6, 6.30            157.082
6, 6.40            157.083
6, 6.50            157.084
7-1                91.01
7-2                91.02
7-3                91.03
7-4                91.04
7-5                91.05
7-6                91.99
7-7                91.06
9, Art. I          158.275,
                   158.276
9, Part B          158.004
9-1                158.001
9-2                158.002
9-3                158.003
9-16               158.015
9-17               158.016
9-18               158.017
9-26               158.030
9-27               158.031
9-28               158.032
9-29               158.033
9-30               158.034
9-31               158.035
9-32               158.036
9-33               158.037
9-41               158.050
9-42               158.051
9-43               158.052
9-44               158.053
9-45               158.054
9-46               158.055
9-56               158.070
9-57               158.071
9-58               158.072
9-66               158.085
9-67               158.086
9-68               158.087
9-69               158.088
9-76               158.100
9-77               158.101 
9-86               158.115
9-87               158.116
9-96               158.130
9-97               158.131
9-99               158.131
9-100              158.133
9-101              158.134
9-102              158.135
9-103              158.136
9-104              158.137
9-105              158.138
9-106              158.139
9-107              158.140
9-108              158.141
9-109              116.01 -
                   116.05
9-110              158.143
9-111              158.144
9-112              158.145
9-120              158.160
9-121              158.161 
9-122              158.162
9-123              158.163
9-124              158.164
9-125              158.165
9-126              158.166
9-127              158.167
9-128              158.168
9-129              158.170
9-130              158.171
9-131              158.172
9-132              158.173
9-136              158.185
9-137              158.186
9-138              158.187,
                   158.999
9-139              158.188
9-140              158.189
9-141              158.190
9-142              158.191
9-143              158.192
9-144              158.193
9-151              158.205
9-152              158.206
9-153              158.207
9-154              158.208
9-155              158.209
9-156              158.210
9-157              158.211
9-158              158.999
9-159              158.212
9-201              158.225
9-202              158.226
9-203              158.227
9-205              158.228
9-206              158.229
9-226              158.240
9-228              158.241
9-229              158.242
9-230              158.243
9-231              158.244
9-232              158.245
9-233              158.246
9-246              158.260
9-247              158.261
9-248              158.262
                   111.01,
10, Art. I         111.02,
                   111.03
10-40              111.15
10-41              111.16
10-42              111.17
10-43              111.18
10-44              111.19
10-45              111.20
10-46              111.21
10-47              111.22
10-61              111.23
10-62              111.24
10-63              111.25
10-64              111.26
10-65              111.27
10-66              111.28
10-67              111.29
10-68              111.30
10-69              111.31
10-70              111.99
11, Art. II        92.01
11-1               92.01,
                   92.99
11-2               92.16
11-3               92.17
11-4               92.18
11-12              91.20
11-13              91.21
11-14              91.22
11-15              91.99
11-16              91.23
11-17              91.24
12                 151.001
12, 2.1            151.002
12, 3.1            151.003
12, 4              151.015
12, 4.1            151.016
12, 4.2            151.017
12, 4.3            151.018
12, 4.4            151.019
12, 5.1            151.030
12, 5.2            151.031
12, 6.1            151.045,
                   151.046
12, 6.2            151.047
12, 6.3            151.048
12, 6.4            151.049
12, 6.5            151.050
12, 6.6            151.051
12, 6.7            151.052
12, 6.8            151.053
12, 6.9            151.054
12, 7              151.065
12, 7.1            151.066
12, 7.2            151.067
12, 7.3            151.068
12, 8.1            151.080
12, 9.1            151.095
12, 9.2            151.096
12, 9.3            151.097
12, 10.2           151.110
12, 10.3           151.111
12, 10.4           151.112
12, 10.5           151.113
12, 10.6           151.114
12, 10.1           151.999
13, Div. 2         155.04
13-1               155.01
13-2               155.02
13-3               155.03
13-20              155.15
                   155.30,
13-30              155.31,
                   155.32,
                   155.33
13-40              155.45
13-41              155.46
13-42              155.47
13-43              155.99
13-44              155.48
13-45              155.49
13-46              155.50
14                 93.99
14-1               93.03
14-2               93.04
14-10              93.05
14-11              93.06
14-12              93.07,
                   93.08
14-26              93.99
14-50              93.20
14-51              93.21
14-52              93.22
14-53              93.23
14-54              93.24
                   156.001,
15, Art. I         156.002,
                   156.003,
                   156.004
15, Art. II        156.015
                   156.030,
                   156.031,
15, Art. III       156.032,
                   156.033,
                   156.034,
                   156.999
                   156.050,
15, Art. IV        156.051,
                   156.052,
                   156.053
                   156.065,
                   156.066,
15, Art. V         156.067,
                   156.068,
                   156.069
26                 93.53
26, Art. V, Div. 8 130.01,
                   130.99
26-41              93.50
26-42              93.51
26-43              93.52
26-44              93.54
26-45              93.99
26-51              93.35,
                   93.46
26-71              95.01
26-72              95.02
26-73              95.03
26-74              95.04
26-75              95.05
26-100             112.01
26-101             112.02
26-102             112.03
26-103             112.04
26-104             112.05
26-105             112.06
26-106             112.07
26-107             112.08
26-108             112.09
26-109             112.10
26-110             112.11
26-111             112.12
26-112             112.13
26-113             112.14
26-114             112.15
26-115             112.16
26-116             112.17
26-117             112.18
26-118             112.19
26-119             112.20
26-131             131.01
26-132             131.02
26-133             131.03
26-134             131.04
26-135             131.05
26-136             131.06
26-137             131.07
26-138             131.08
26-139             131.09
26-140             131.10
26-141             131.11
26-142             131.12
26-143             131.13
26-172             130.15
26-173             130.16
26-174             130.99
26-187             92.30
26-189             92.31
26-201             94.01
26-202             94.03
26-203             94.04
26-204             94.05
26-205             94.06
                   94.07,
26-206             94.08,
                   94.99
26-226             132.01
26-227             132.02
26-228             132.99
26-251             132.15
26-252             132.99
26-253             132.17
26-281             132.16
26-282             132.99
26-311             130.02
26-321             132.99
26-322             132.30
26-323             132.31
26-331             70.99
26-332             70.25
26-333             130.17,
                   130.99
27-1               36.01
27-2               36.02
27-3               36.03
27-6               36.04
27-7               36.05
27-8               36.06
27-9               36.07
27-21              36.20
27-22              36.21
27-23              36.22
27-24              36.23
27-25              36.24
27-26              36.25
27-41              36.99
27-51              36.40
27-52              36.41
27-53              36.42
27-54              36.43
27-55              36.44
27-56              36.45,
                   36.46
27-58              36.47
27, 26-81          70.01
27, 26-82          70.02
27, 26-83          70.03
27, 26-84          70.04
27, 26-85          70.05
27, 26-86          70.06
27, 26-87          70.07
27, 26-88          70.08
27, 26-89          70.09
27, 26-90          70.10
27, 26-91          70.99
28-1               150.01
28-2               150.02
28-20              150.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.           Date Passed Description
-                  - -         TSO Table II
--                 -           152.128
-                  1-1-1985    TSO Table II
-                  6-6-1985    TSO Table I
                               151.125,
                               151.126,
-                  2-17-1986   151.127,
                               151.128,
                               151.129
-                  2-1-1988    TSO Table I
-                  4-4-1988    TSO Table I
-                  4-4-1988    TSO Table I
-                  11-1-1988   TSO Table I
-                  4-1-1989    157.033
-                  1-10-1996   TSO Table II
                               153.001,
                               153.002,
                               153.003,
                               153.004,
                               153.005,
                               153.006,
                               153.020,
                               153.021,
                               153.022,
                               153.023,
                               153.024,
                               153.035,
                               153.036,
                               153.037,
                               153.038,
-                  2-22-1999   153.039,
                               153.040,
                               153.055,
                               153.056,
                               153.070,
                               153.071,
                               153.072,
                               153.085,
                               153.086,
                               153.087,
                               153.088,
                               153.100,
                               153.101,
                               153.102,
                               153.115,
                               153.116
-                  5-15-2000   32.24,
                               32.25
-                  9-18-2000   70.99
-                  10-16-2000  TSO Table I
-                  5-20-2002   158.038
                               34.01,
                               34.02,
                               34.03,
                               34.04,
                               34.05,
                               34.06,
                               34.07,
-                  10-15-2007  34.08,
                               34.09,
                               34.10,
                               34.25,
                               34.26,
                               34.27,
                               34.40,
                               34.41
                               37.01,
-                  10-25-2007  37.02,
                               37.03
-                  8-18-2008   158.146
-                  4-20-2009   31.01
-                  8-18-2009   158.146,
                               158.999
                               92.15,
                               92.16,
                               92.17,
                               92.18,
                               92.19,
92-01              5-18-2010   92.20,
                               92.21,
                               92.22,
                               92.23,
                               92.24,
                               92.25,
                               92.26
93-60              7-20-2010   93.60
-                  8-16-2011   158.035
                               93.70 -
-                  11-15-2011  93.72,
                               93.99
-                  9-18-2012   30.05
                               30.40,
-                  7-16-2013   30.42 -
                               30.45
2014-1             4-15-2014   32.18,
                               Ch. 32 Appendix
2015-1             7-7-2015    31.02,
                               31.03
2015-3             8-6-2015    32.18
                               30.30 -
2016-01            6-23-2016   30.35,
                               32.18
2016-02            6-23-2016   30.40 -
                               30.43
2016-04            12-13-2016  157.100
2016-05            10-26-2016  32.40
                               90.01 -
                               90.12,
                               90.25 -
County. Ord. 17-01 6-26-2017   90.31,
                               90.45 -
                               90.47,
                               90.99
                               156.001 -
                               156.004,
                               156.015,
                               156.030 -
                               156.034,
                               156.050 -
--                 4-27-2018   156.054,
                               156.065 -
                               156.069,
                               156.080 -
                               156.088,
                               156.100,
                               156.101,
                               156.999
2019-04            6-18-2019   110.01 -
                               110.20
2019-05            7-16-2019   153.001 -
                               153.006
2019-07            7-16-2019   153.001 -
                               153.006
                               152.000 -
                               152.002,
                               152.015 -
                               152.021,
                               152.035 -
                               152.043,
                               152.050 -
                               152.053,
                               152.065 -
                               152.071,
                               152.083 -
                               152.132,
2019-09            12-10-2019  152.145 -
                               152.164,
                               152.175,
                               152.176,
                               152.190,
                               152.191,
                               152.205 -
                               152.207,
                               152.220,
                               152.235,
                               152.236,
                               152.250 -
                               152.261,
                               152.999
2019-10            12-10-2019  158.290 -
                               158.293
2020-01            1-21-2020   116.01 -
                               116.06
                               93.01,
                               93.03 -
                               93.08,
                               93.20 -
                               93.25,
                               93.35 -
2020-02            1-21-2020   93.46,
                               93.50 -
                               93.54,
                               93.60,
                               93.70 -
                               93.72,
                               93.99,
                               Ch. 93 Appx.
2020-03            1-21-2020   118.01,
                               118.02
                               94.01 -
                               94.09,
2020-04            1-21-2020   94.13 -
                               94.15,
                               94.99
2020-05            1-21-2020   113.01 -
                               113.05
                               115.01,
2020-06            1-21-2020   115.10 -
                               115.15
                               158.164 -
20-22              10-20-2020  158.168,
                               158.170 -
                               158.172
                              
 
