LINN CREEK, MISSOURI
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 18-001, passed 9-6-2018
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.03   Jurisdiction of code
   
10.04   Catchlines of sections
   
10.05   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Amendments to code
   
10.08   Supplementation of code
   
10.09   Maintenance of copies of code
   
10.10   Organization of code
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Publication of code; evidence
   
10.13   Prosecution where different provisions exist for same offense
 
   
10.99   Ordinance enforcement and administration; penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Linn Creek shall be
designated as the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Linn Creek” and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions and rules of
construction shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BOND.  When a bond is required, an undertaking in writing in such form and
with such sureties as may be satisfactory to the Mayor is sufficient unless
otherwise required by state law or this code.
   CITY or THIS CITY.  The City of Linn Creek, Missouri.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
   CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS, or CITY LIMITS.  The legal boundary of
the City of Linn Creek, Missouri.
   COUNTY or THIS COUNTY.  The County of Camden, Missouri.
   COURT.  The Municipal Court of the city.
   DEFINITIONS.  Unless otherwise expressly provided, definitions given within
a title, chapter, subchapter, section, or division apply only to words or
phrases used in such title, chapter, subchapter, section, or division.
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.  Whenever a provision appears requiring an officer
or the head of a department of the city to do some act or make certain
inspections, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department to
designate, delegate, and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
make the required inspection unless the terms of the provision or section
designate otherwise.
   DESIGNEE.  Following an official of the city, means the authorized agent,
employee, or representative of such official.
   GENDER.  A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships, and corporations as well as to
males.
   INTERPRETATION.  In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general
welfare. Where any provision of the code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than another more general provision imposed by the code, the
provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   JOINT AUTHORITY.  Words importing joint authority to three or more persons
shall be construed as authority to a majority of such persons.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Natural persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs, and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant,
agent, or employee.
   LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION.  All general provisions, terms, phrases, and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Board of Aldermen may be fully carried out.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   NAME OF OFFICER.  Whenever the name of an officer is given, it shall be
construed as though the words “of the City of Linn Creek” were added.
   NON-TECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS.  Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   NUMBER.  A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied
to several persons or things as well as to one person or thing.
   OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OWNER.  Applied to a building or land, any part owner, joint owner, tenant
in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety of the whole or a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON.  A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and
any other group acting as a unit, as well as individuals. PERSON shall also
include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, or other representative
appointed according to law. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of
this code prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or associations,
the word shall include the partners or members thereof, and as to corporations,
shall include the directors, officers, agents, or members thereof who are
responsible for any violation of such section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property, except real property, as
herein described.
   PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY.  Real, tangible, and intangible personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   PUBLIC WAY.  Any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway, sidewalk, or
other public thoroughfare.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Including the terms PREMISES, REAL ESTATE, or LANDS, shall
be deemed to be co-extensive with lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   RESIDENCE.  The place adopted by a person as his or her place of habitation,
and to which, whenever he or she is absent, he or she has the intention of
returning. When a person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place
where such person sleeps shall be deemed his or her RESIDENCE.
   REVISED STATUTES or RSMo.  The Revised Statutes of Missouri, as amended.
   SEAL.  The seal of the City of Linn Creek.
   SHALL and MAY.  The word SHALL, as used in this code, is mandatory; MAY is
permissive or discretionary.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Where the written signature or subscription of
any natural person is required, the proper handwriting of such person or his or
her mark, when such person cannot write, shall be intended.
   STATE.  The State of Missouri.
   STREET.  Any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley,
or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words shall include every other
of them.
   TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Goods, chattels, and all personal property,
except intangible personal property.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
   TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
   WEEK.  Seven days.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING, and WORD FOR WORD.  Printing, lithographing, or other
modes of representing words and letters; but, in all cases where the signature
of any natural person is required, the proper handwriting of the person, or his
or her mark, is intended.
   YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.03  JURISDICTION OF CODE.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code shall apply to acts
performed within the corporate limits of the city. The provisions of this code
shall also apply to acts performed outside the corporate limits and up to the
limits prescribed by law where the law confers power on the city to regulate
such particular acts outside the corporate limits.
§ 10.04  CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section; nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
§ 10.05  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code and ordinances existing at the time of
the effective date of this code shall be considered as continuation thereof and
not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
sections, divisions, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are severable
and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, division, or section of this code shall
be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, divisions, and sections of this code,
since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Aldermen without the
incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause,
sentence, division, or section.
§ 10.07  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code, which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein or, in the case of
repealed chapters, sections, and divisions or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby and the subsequent ordinances as numbered
and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of
such subsequent ordinances until such time that this code and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language: “That section            of the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Linn Creek, Missouri, is hereby amended to read as
follows: (Set out new provisions in full)”.
   (C)   When the Board of Aldermen desires to enact an ordinance of a general
and permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which
the Board of Aldermen desires to incorporate into the code, a section in
substantially the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
“Section             . It is the intention of the Board of Aldermen, and it is
hereby ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made
a part of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Linn Creek, Missouri, and the
sections of this ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention”.
   (D)   All titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code desired to
be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.08  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of Aldermen.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Board during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into the
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words to the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections      to      ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.09  MAINTENANCE OF COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   The City Clerk shall keep two copies of this code.
      (2)   These copies shall be printed or otherwise mounted to withstand
heavy usage and preserved by the City Clerk in a book or binder in looseleaf
form, or in such other form as the Board of Aldermen may consider most
expedient, so that all amendments thereto and all general ordinances hereafter
passed may be inserted in their appropriate places in such volumes, and all
sections of this code or ordinances repealed from time to time may be extracted
therefrom for the purpose of maintaining the two copies in such condition that
they will show all general ordinances passed up to date at any time in such
manner that ready reference may be had thereto.
   (B)   In determining whether or not any ordinance hereafter passed, or any
part thereof, shall be inserted in such volume, and in determining the form,
chapter, article, or section which shall be taken out, if any doubt arises, the
City Clerk shall be guided by the advice of any regular or special city
counselor.
§ 10.10  ORGANIZATION OF CODE.
   The ordinances in this code are organized into titles, chapters,
subchapters, sections, and divisions, as identified in the following
definitions.
   (A)   Title. TITLE is the largest unit of organization in this code. TITLES
divide ordinances and resolutions by broad subject matter into the following
categories:
         I.    General Provisions
         III.    Administration
         V.    Public Works
         VII.    Traffic Code
         IX.    General Regulations
         XI.    Business Regulations
         XIII.    General Offenses
         XV.    Land Usage
   (B)   Chapter. A CHAPTER organizes the information that is contained within
a title.
   (C)   Subchapter. A SUBCHAPTER itemizes the information found in a chapter
by breaking it into smaller parts according to subject matter.
   (D)   Section. A SECTION is the basic unit of a code, designated by the
symbol “§”.
   (E)   Division. A DIVISION separates a section into paragraphs, designated
by letters and numbers as follows.
   (A)   First division.
      (1)   Second division.
         (a)   Third division.
            1.   Fourth division.
               a.   Fifth division.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   (A)   Designated. The city shall observe Central Standard Time in accordance
with 15 U.S.C. § 261 and 49 C.P.R. § 71 .6. The city shall observe daylight
saving time in accordance with 15 U.S.C. § 260a and 49 C.F.R. § 71.2.
   (B)   Referred to in ordinances, notices, documents, and the like.
      (1)   When reference is made to any time without qualification in any
ordinance, resolution, or order heretofore passed or which may be passed
hereafter by the Board of Aldermen or in any official notice, advertisement, or
document of the city or in any contract to which the city is a party, it shall
be understood to refer to the official time of the city as described in
division (A) above.
      (2)   When the words “daylight saving time” are used, the reference shall
be to the advanced time provided by 15 U.S.C. § 260a and 49 C.P.R. § 71.2.
   (C)   Application. In all ordinances, resolutions, or orders of the Board of
Aldermen and in all official notices, advertisements, or documents of the city
and in all contracts to which the city is a party relating to the time of
performance of any act by any officer or department of the city or relating to
the time within which any rights shall accrue or determine or within which any
act shall or shall not be performed by any person, it shall be understood and
intended that the time shall be the official time of the city as prescribed in
division (A) above.
   (D)   Public timepieces. All clocks or other timepieces in or upon public
buildings or other premises maintained at the expense of the city shall be set
and run according to the official time, as provided in division (A) above. It
is hereby made the duty of the officer or other person having control and
charge of any such building and premises to see that the clocks or other
timepieces are set and run in accordance with official time.
§ 10.12  PUBLICATION OF CODE; EVIDENCE.
   When the code shall be printed and bound, it shall be deemed a sufficient
publication of all ordinances contained therein, and they shall be received in
evidence without further proof in all cases, suits, or proceedings had,
instituted or prosecuted under the provisions thereof, and in pleading any
ordinance or part of ordinance in prosecutions and proceedings had by virtue of
any of the provisions thereof, it shall be sufficient to designate the number
of the section or chapter under which the action is instituted or proceedings
had.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 71.943
§ 10.13  PROSECUTION WHERE DIFFERENT PROVISIONS EXIST FOR SAME OFFENSE.
   In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable, or shall be
created by different clauses or sections of the ordinances of the city, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense.
§ 10.99  ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty provisions.
      (1)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city, or in any
rule, regulation, notice, condition, term, or order promulgated by any officer
or agency of the city under authority duly vested in him, her, or it, any act
is prohibited or is declared to be unlawful or an offense or misdemeanor or the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided
therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any such
ordinance, rule, regulation, order, or notice shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment; but, in any case wherein the penalty for an offense is fixed
by any statute, the same penalty shall apply.
      (2)   Except where otherwise provided, each and every day any violation
of this code or any ordinance of the city or any rule, regulation, order, or
notice promulgated by any officer or agency of the city under authority duly
vested in him, her, or it shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment
thereof or by any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, such prohibition shall
extend to and include the causing, securing, aiding, or abetting of another
person to do said act. Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, an attempt
to do the act is likewise prohibited.
   (B)   Equitable relief. In addition to any other remedies or penalties
established for violations of any ordinance or code section, or any rule,
regulation, notice, condition, term or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the city under duly vested authority, the city official responsible
for the enforcement of such ordinance, code section, rule, regulation, notice,
condition, term, or order may, on behalf of the city and after approval by the
Board of Aldermen, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for such legal or
equitable relief as may be necessary to enforce compliance with such ordinance,
code section, rule, regulation, notice, condition, term, or order. In such
action, the court may grant such legal or equitable relief, including, but not
limited to, mandatory or prohibitory injunctive relief, as the facts may
warrant. Upon the successful prosecution of any such action, the city may be
awarded by the court reasonable attorney fees as allowed by law.
   (C)   Restrictions on delinquent applicants.
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         APPLICANT. An individual or a corporation, firm, partnership, joint
venture, association, organization, or entity of any kind, including any
shareholder, owner, officer, partner, joint venturer, or member of such entity
or any other person holding an ownership interest in such entity requesting any
city permit, license, franchise, or other approval.
         RELATED PERSON OR ENTITY.
            1.   A firm, partnership, joint venture, association, organization,
or entity of any kind in which the applicant holds any stock, title, or other
ownership interest of at least 20%;
            2.   A firm, partnership, joint venture, association, organization,
or entity of any kind which holds any stock, title, or other ownership interest
in the applicant of at least 20%; or
            3.   An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
organization, or entity of any kind, whose affairs the applicant has the legal
or practical ability to direct, either directly or indirectly, whether by
contractual agreement, majority ownership interest, any lessor ownership
interest, familial relationship, or in any other manner.
         RELEVANT LAW.
            1.   Any statute or regulation of the United States or the state;
            2.   Any ordinance or code section of the city, or any rule,
regulation, notice, condition, term, or order promulgated by any officer or
agency of the city under duly vested authority of the city; or
            3.   Any final judgment or order of any court of competent
jurisdiction, when a statute, ordinance, code section, rule, regulation,
notice, condition, term, order, or judgment at issue regulates conduct or
conditions germane to the issuance of the requested permit, license, franchise,
or other approval as provided by the applicable ordinance or code section of
the city.
      (2)   In enforcing or administering the ordinances of the city, no
permit, license, franchise, or approval of any kind shall be granted to any
applicant:
         (a)   Who is charged with, or in violation of, any relevant law; or
         (b)   Who is related to or associated with a related person or entity
who is charged with, or in violation of, any relevant law, until such time as
the applicant or the related person or entity resolves the pending charge or
comes into compliance with the relevant law.
      (3)   The reviewing or enforcement officer may consider past violations
of relevant law by an applicant or a related person or entity in considering
whether to issue a permit, license, franchise, or approval requested by an
applicant.
      (4)   The reviewing or enforcement officer may refuse to accept the
refiling of a denied application for one year from the date of the denial
unless the officer finds that the application has been substantially revised,
or that substantial new facts or change in circumstances warrant reapplication.
      (5)   Any aggrieved applicant may appeal the decision of the reviewing or
enforcement officer to the Board of Aldermen within five business days of said
decision. The Board of Aldermen may reverse or modify the decision of the
reviewing or enforcement officer; provided, the applicant:
         (a)   Establishes a good-faith effort to effect compliance with this
section and any relevant law or, if applicable, an inability to do so because
of the ownership structure of any pertinent related entity; or
         (b)   Establishes that the applicant has not been charged with, or is
not in violation of, any relevant law.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   BOARD OF ALDERMEN
      
32.   CITY POLICIES
      
33.   POLICE
      
34.   FINANCES
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
CHAPTER 30:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
30.01   City Clerk
   
30.02   Deputy Clerk/Collector
   
30.03   Court Clerk
   
30.04   Judges
   
30.05   Traffic Engineer
   
30.06   Attorneys
   
30.07   Mayor
§ 30.01  CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Selection, tenure, and compensation.
      (1)   The Board of Aldermen shall elect a clerk for such Board, to be
known as the City Clerk.
(RSMo. § 79.320)
      (2)   The position is subject to reappointment every two years upon
elective change in administration.
      (3)   The beginning rate of compensation will be determined by the Board
of Aldermen.
      (4)   Salary increases and all other employee benefits will be as
established in the city’s Employee Handbook.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall also be subject to all other guidelines set
forth in the city’s Employee Handbook.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   As an appointive office, the City Clerk need not be a voter of the
city nor a resident of the city.
      (2)   The City Clerk should possess the necessary skills for the position
and should be able to work compatibly with the Board members, city employees,
and general public.
(RSMo. § 79.320)
      (3)   Desirable qualifications for the position are:
         (a)   Knowledge of the principles and methods of finance, accounting,
and auditing;
         (b)   Knowledge of modern office management procedures, practices, and
equipment;
         (c)   Knowledge of purchasing procedures; and
         (d)   Ability to understand and carry out complex oral and written
instructions.
(RSMo. § 79.250)
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall keep a journal of the proceedings of the Board
of Aldermen.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall safely and properly keep all the records and
papers belonging to the city.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall be the general accountant of the city.
      (4)   The City Clerk is empowered to administer official oaths and oaths
to persons certifying to demands or claims against the city.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall perform any duties as specified by the Board
of Aldermen, including the following:
         (a)   Report monthly, semi-annually, and annually to the Board a full
statement of receipts and expenditures;
         (b)   Publish financial reports in a local newspaper at the times
required by city ordinance and state law;
         (c)   Assist in the preparation of the city budget;
         (d)   Prepare Board agendas and deliver to Board members a few days in
advance of the next scheduled meeting;
         (e)   Assist in the preparation of ordinances;
         (f)   Coordinate the city elections with the Camden County Clerk;
         (g)   Publish requests for bids, notices of hearings, and other
official notices;
         (h)   Instruct and train other employees;
         (i)   Administer the city’s payroll and insurance programs;
         (j)   Issue licenses and permits;
         (k)   Serve as purchasing agent;
         (l)   Handle zoning/floodplain development applications and
applications for water and sewer service;
         (m)   Have water meters read;
         (n)   Send monthly water and sewer bills;
         (o)   Serve as secretary to other city boards and commissions; and
         (p)   Perform any other duties as assigned.
(RSMo. § 79.320)
   (D)   Removal.
      (1)   An appointee City Clerk may be removed from office by the Mayor and
a majority of the Aldermen, or by two-thirds of the Aldermen without the
Mayor’s approval.
      (2)   There is no requirement to show cause for the removal.
(RSMo. § 79.240)
   (E)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs in an appointed City Clerk’s position,
the Mayor shall appoint a suitable person to discharge the duties of such
office until the next Board of Aldermen meeting thereafter, at which time the
Board of Aldermen shall permanently fill such vacancy.
(RSMo. § 79.280)
(Ord. 96-005, passed 3-28-1996)
§ 30.02  DEPUTY CLERK/COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Selection, tenure, and compensation.
      (1)   The Board of Aldermen shall appoint a clerk, to be known as Deputy
City Clerk/Collector.
      (2)   The position is subject to reappointment every two years upon
elective change in administration.
      (3)   The beginning rate of compensation will be determined by the Board
of Aldermen.
      (4)   Salary increases and all other employee benefits will be as
established in the city’s Employee Handbook.
      (5)   The Deputy City Clerk/Collector shall also be subject to all other
guidelines set forth in the city’s  Employee Handbook.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   As an appointive office, the Deputy City Clerk/Collector need not
be a voter of the city nor a resident of the city.
      (2)   The Deputy City Clerk/Collector should be able to work compatibly
with the Board of Aldermen, city employees, and the general public.
      (3)   Considerable knowledge and experience in modern office practices,
including computer skills.
      (4)   Knowledge of the principles and methods of finance, accounting, and
auditing.
      (5)   Ability to understand and carry out complex oral and written
instructions.
      (6)   Be able to work under standard operating procedures and to abide by
policies stated or granted by the municipal code.
      (7)   Have a high school diploma or equivalent.
   (C)   Duties.   Under the direct supervision of the City Clerk, the Deputy
City Clerk/Collector performs a variety of duties, including:
      (1)   Assist the City Clerk in the performance of his or her duties;
      (2)   Perform the duties of the City Clerk in his or her absence;
      (3)   Assist in the preparation and distribution of committee or Board
packets to the Board of Aldermen and respective municipal committees;
      (4)   Provide clerical support to the Administration Department;
      (5)   Development of an annual report to the Board of Aldermen stating
the various moneys collected during the year and the amounts uncollected and
the names and reasons of persons failing to pay; and
      (6)   Other duties as assigned.
   (D)   Removal.
      (1)   An appointed Deputy City Clerk/Collector may be removed from office
by the Mayor and a majority of the Aldermen, or by two-thirds of the Aldermen
without the Mayor’s approval.
      (2)   There is no requirement to show cause for removal.
   (E)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs in an appointed Deputy City Clerk/
Collector’s position, the Mayor shall appoint a suitable person to discharge
the duties of such office until the next Board of Aldermen meeting thereafter,
at which time the Board of Aldermen shall permanently fill such vacancy.
(Ord. 99-003, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 30.03  COURT CLERK.
   (A)   Supervision of the Municipal Court Clerk/Deputy City Clerk.
      (1)   When performing clerical duties for the Municipal Court as the
Municipal Court Clerk, the employee is under the supervision of the Municipal
Judge.
      (2)   When performing clerical duties for the city as the Deputy City
Clerk, the employee is under the supervision of the Mayor and City Clerk.
   (B)   Role and duties of the Municipal Court Clerk. The Municipal Court
Clerk shall assist the Municipal Judge in administering the Municipal Court.
The Municipal Court Clerk’s duties shall include, but shall not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Prepares all dockets, docket books, case files, issuance of
subpoenas, recording of depositions, granting continuances and issuance of
bench warrants, court orders, and official correspondence;
      (2)   Receive incoming mail and answers phone calls;
      (3)   Prepare monthly reports and makes distribution as required;
      (4)   Issue uniform traffic tickets to Chief of Police and police
officers and maintains the official record of the issuance of all uniform
traffic tickets;
      (5)   Receive and prepare traffic tickets and violations forwarded to the
Municipal Court for prosecution;
      (6)   Operate a variety of office equipment, including a personal
computer, maintain files, and prepare routine correspondence;
      (7)   Attend all Municipal Court proceedings and assist the Municipal
Judge and Prosecuting Attorney in the orderly operation of the Municipal Court;
      (8)   Maintain knowledge of current procedural changes and legal
practices and research alternative procedures and policies as directed by the
Municipal Judge and the Prosecuting Attorney;
      (9)   Continue employee development by attending seminars and workshops.
Employee is encouraged to obtain certification as Court Clerk Administrator;
      (10)   Maintain accounting, recording, balancing, and depositing of all
money received by the court;
      (11)   Dispose of and maintain disposition records of all case files
under the existing state statutes of disposition on records; and
      (12)   Perform other duties as may be directed.
   (C)   Defining the role and duties of the Deputy City Clerk. The Deputy City
Clerk shall assist the City Clerk in performing administrative duties for the
city and the Deputy City Clerk’s duties shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Assist the City Clerk in the performance of his or her duties;
      (2)   Perform the duties of the City Clerk in his or her absence;
      (3)   Provide clerical support to the city administration; and
      (4)   Perform other duties as may be directed.
   (D)   Municipal Clerk/Deputy City Clerk, selection, tenure, compensation.
      (1)   Selection, tenure, and compensation of court personnel is not
included in the duties and powers of the Municipal Judge set forth in RSMo. §
479.070. The selection, tenure, and compensation of Municipal Clerks shall be
as provided by the municipality: provided, however, that the compensation shall
not be predicated upon the amount of fines levied or the number of guilty pleas
or adjudications of guilt in cause processed through the Municipal Division or
the Traffic Violations Bureau.
      (2)   The Municipal Court Clerk/Deputy City Clerk is appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the Board of Aldermen.
      (3)   The position is subject to reappointment every two years upon
elective change in administration.
      (4)   Beginning rate of compensation will be determined by the Board of
Aldermen.
      (5)   Salary increases and all other employee benefits will be as
established in the city’s Employee Handbook.
      (6)   The Municipal Court Clerk/Deputy City Clerk, as a city employee, is
also subject to all other guidelines set forth in the city’s Employee Handbook.
   (E)   Physical demands.
      (1)   The physical demands described here are representative of those
that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions
of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions.
      (2)   While performing the duties of this job, the employee is frequently
required to sit and talk or hear, use hands to finger, handle, feel, or operate
objects, tools, or controls, and reach with hands and arms. The employee is
occasionally required to walk.
      (3)   The employee must occasionally lift and or move up to 25 pounds.
Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision and the
ability to adjust focus.
   (F)   Work environment.
      (1)   The work environment characteristics described here are
representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential
functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable
individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
      (2)   The noise level in the work environment is usually quiet.
(Ord. 11-003, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 30.04  JUDGES.
   (A)   Selection, tenure, and compensation.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the Board of Aldermen.
      (2)   The position is subject to reappointment every two years upon
electoral change in administration.
      (3)   The compensation of the Municipal Judge shall be set by the Board
of Aldermen and shall not be dependent in any way upon the number of cases
tried, the number of guilty verdicts reached, or the amount of fines imposed or
collected.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge shall be at least 21 years of age. No person
shall serve as Municipal Judge after that person has reached that person’s
seventy-fifth birthday.
      (2)   The Municipal Judge need not be a resident of the municipality, but
shall be a resident of the state.
      (3)   The Municipal Judge may be a part-time judge and may serve as
Municipal Judge in more than one municipality.
   (C)   Duties, powers, jurisdiction of Municipal Judge.
      (1)   The judge selected shall be a Municipal Judge of the circuit court
of the circuit in which the city is located.
      (2)   The Municipal Judge shall be subject to the rules of the circuit
court which are not inconsistent with the rules of the supreme court.
      (3)   The presiding judge of the circuit shall have general
administrative authority over the judges and court personnel of the municipal
division.
      (4)   The Municipal Judge shall not hold any other office in the city.
      (5)   The Municipal Judge shall be a conservator of the peace.
      (6)   The Municipal Judge shall keep a docket in which every case
commenced before the court and the proceedings shall be entered therein. Such
docket and records shall be records of the circuit court.
      (7)   Said docket and records and all books and papers pertaining to the
Municipal Judge’s office shall be delivered to the successor of the office or
to the presiding judge of the circuit.
      (8)   The Municipal Judge shall have the power to administer oaths and
enforce due obedience to all orders, rules, and judgments made, and the
Municipal Judge may fine or imprison for contempt committed while holding
court, in the same manner and to the same extent as a circuit judge.
      (9)   The Municipal Judge shall have the power to place on probation
persons convicted of any offense within the Municipal Court’s jurisdiction,
except as otherwise provided by state law.
(Ord. 98-002, passed 2-10-1998)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 479.070
§ 30.05  TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby designated to serve as the City Traffic
Engineer in addition to his or her other functions and duties, and he or she
shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic as provided in
RSMo. Chapter 300.
   (B)   He or she shall determine the installation and maintenance of traffic
control devices and signs, conduct analysis of traffic accidents and devise
remedial measures, conduct investigations of traffic conditions, plan the
operation of traffic on city streets and highways of the city, and cooperate
with the Board of Aldermen in the development of ways and means to improve
traffic conditions.
   (C)   He or she shall receive complaints having to do with all traffic
matters and shall recommend to the Board of Aldermen ways to improve or resolve
such matters.
   (D)   He or she may place and maintain such additional traffic control
devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate, guide, or warn traffic.
   (E)   He or she is empowered to make regulations necessary to make effective
provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make and enforce
temporary and experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days without approval by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 99-007, passed 6-29-1999)
§ 30.06  ATTORNEYS.
   (A)   Prosecuting Attorney.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of the majority of the
members of the Board of Aldermen, shall appoint the Prosecuting Attorney, who
shall be licensed in the State of Missouri.
      (2)   The Prosecuting Attorney need not be a resident of the city.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Prosecuting Attorney to prosecute the
violations of the city ordinances before the Municipal Judge.
      (4)   The salary of the Prosecuting Attorney shall be approved by the
Board of Aldermen and shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   City Attorney.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of the majority of the
members of the Board of Aldermen, shall appoint the City Attorney, who shall be
licensed in the State of Missouri.
      (2)   The City Attorney need not be a resident of the city.
      (3)   The City Attorney shall attend all regular and closed session
meetings of the Board of Aldermen and shall be the legal advisor to the Board
of Aldermen on all matters affecting the best interests of the city.
      (4)   The City Attorney shall be available from time to time to answer
any questions arising from day-to-day city operations and to guide city
officials as necessary in legalities.
      (5)   The City Attorney shall act as Parliamentarian for meeting of the
Board of Aldermen.
      (6)   The salary or fees of the City Attorney and the necessary expenses
incurred in defense of litigation or other city business affairs shall be
approved by the Board of Aldermen and shall be paid by the municipality.
   (C)   Dual functions.
      (1)   The positions of Prosecuting Attorney and City Attorney may be held
by the same person.
      (2)   In such case, the salaries or fees of each position may be
combined, approved by the Board of Aldermen, and shall be paid by the
municipality.
   (D)   Employment of special counsel. The Mayor, with the consent and
approval of the majority of the members of the Board of Aldermen, shall have
the authority to employ special counsel to represent the city, either in case
of vacancy in the office of the City Attorney, or to assist the City Attorney,
and to pay reasonable compensation thereof.
(Ord. 01-003, passed 4-17-2001)
§ 30.07  MAYOR.
   (A)   Office hours.
      (1)   It is deemed vital to the best interests of the city that the
position of Mayor requires a minimum of 35 office hours per week to be spent in
administering to the affairs of the city.
      (2)   Failure to fulfill the 35-hour requirement will result in the
forfeiture of the $1,000 monthly Mayoral compensation for that month or period
in which the requirement was not met.
   (B)   Compensation. The Mayor shall receive as compensation the sum of
$1,000 per month.
(Ord. 96-002, passed 1-30-1996; Ord. 14-003, passed 3-6-2014)
CHAPTER 31:  BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Section
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Meetings
   
31.03   Recording of abstentions on vote
   
31.04   Voting; term
§ 31.01  COMPENSATION.
   Board members shall each receive as compensation the sum of $25 for each
Board meeting attended and the sum of $12.50 for each workshop attended.
Compensation will be paid monthly by the first regular Board meeting of the
month for the previous month.
(Ord. 14-003, passed 3-6-2014)
§ 31.02  MEETINGS.
   The Board of Aldermen meetings be set for the first and third Thursday of
each month at 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 14-002, passed 2-6-2014)
§ 31.03  RECORDING OF ABSTENTIONS ON VOTE.
   In the event that a member of the Board of Aldermen states that he or she is
abstaining, the vote shall be recorded as an abstention and not recorded as a
yea or nay.
(Ord. 00-002, passed 3-7-2000)
§ 31.04  VOTING; TERM.
   (A)   The office of Aldermen shall be at large.
   (B)   Each year, one-half of the Board of Aldermen shall stand for election
at large for a two-year term. The two candidates receiving the most votes shall
be deemed elected as the new Alderman for the term said out herein.
(Ord. 14-008, passed 10-2-2014)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Election filing period
   
32.02   Reimbursement of health insurance coinsurance
   
32.03   Reimbursement for use of personal vehicles
   
32.04   Motor vehicle insurance
   
32.05   Contractor training
   
32.06   Open meetings and records
Officials/Employees
   
32.20   Employee Handbook adopted
   
32.21   Sick pay
   
32.22   Benefits
   
32.23   Parole, probation, and compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  ELECTION FILING PERIOD.
   (A)   Municipal general election date. Municipal general elections shall be
held annually on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in April.
   (B)   Uniform filing period.
      (1)   The uniform filing period opens at 8:00 a.m. on the fifteenth
Tuesday prior to the election.
      (2)   The uniform filing period closes at 5:00 p.m. on the eleventh
Tuesday prior to the election.
   (C)   The City of Linn Creek, Missouri, is authorized to forgo annual
elections if the number of candidates who have filed for a particular office is
equal to the number of positions in the office to be filled by the election.
(Ord. 97-006, passed 12-9-1997; Ord. 17-001, passed 12-15-2017)
§ 32.02  REIMBURSEMENT OF HEALTH INSURANCE COINSURANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COINSURANCE.  The portion of eligible expenses in excess of the
deductibles that is the employee’s responsibility and is specified as the
coinsurance level. If the employee’s COINSURANCE for care received during a
calendar year reach the individual coinsurance maximum, no further coinsurance
will be required for care he or she receives during the remainder of that
calendar year.
      DEDUCTIBLE.  The individual deductible is the amount of eligible expenses
that an employee must incur and be responsible for paying in a calendar year
before insurance provider will make any payments for benefits.
      EMPLOYEE.  A full-time employee of the city who is enrolled on the city’s
group health insurance policy.
      NETWORK PROVIDER.  A provider of medical care who is registered as a
participating provider and listed in the provider directory.
      NON-NETWORK PROVIDER.  A provider of medical care who is not registered
with the insurance provider.
      PROVIDER.  A hospital, ambulatory surgical center, home health care
agency, skilled nursing facility, supplier of ambulance services or durable
medical equipment, home infusion therapy care provider and home respiratory
therapy care provider, physician, or other licensed health care professionals
licensed to render care which is a benefit under the health insurance
certificate.
   (B)   Reimbursement.
      (1)   Employees of the city shall be reimbursed, up to a maximum of $500,
for the coinsurance of the insurance that is used.
      (2)   When the coinsurance level is 20%, maximum $500, for all care
received from network providers and ambulance services related to an emergency
medical condition, the city will reimburse the employee 100% of the coinsurance
at the 20% level.
      (3)   When the coinsurance level is 50%, maximum $1,250, for all care
received from non-network providers, the city will only reimburse the employee
for that part that would be equal to the 20% coinsurance; which is 40% of the
coinsurance at the 50% level.
      (4)   Reimbursement requests must be submitted to the City Clerk and
include the original insurer explanation of benefits showing the claim
processing detail and the original medical bill. The City Clerk will make
copies of the originals and return the originals to the employee.
      (5)   All reimbursement requests must be approved and signed by the Mayor
prior to reimbursement.
      (6)   Coinsurance used by covered dependents of employees will be the
responsibility of the employee.
(Ord. 06-001, passed 2-21-2006)
§ 32.03  REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PERSONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Employees of the city shall be reimbursed for the use of their
personal vehicle on official city business.
   (B)   The rate of mileage reimbursement shall be the same as that in the
most recent version of the U.S. General Service Administration's Privately
Owned Vehicle Mileage Reimbursement Rates as published each December in the
Federal Register.
   (C)   Reimbursement requests must be itemized and indicate the date,
destination, purpose of the trip, and miles driven. Distance is to be totaled
and the reimbursement amount computed in accordance with 41 C.F.R. § 301-
10.301.
   (D)   All reimbursement requests must be approved and signed by the Mayor
prior to reimbursement.
   (E)   The employee may elect to accept the reimbursement amount, as approved
by the Mayor, by direct payment or by charging to the city a like amount in
fuel at a designated fuel center.
(Ord. 05-003, passed 6-7-2005)
§ 32.04  MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE.
   (A)   All motor vehicles licensed by the state shall be required to have the
minimum amount of motor vehicle insurance, as determined by the state’s
Department of Revenue, when operating within the corporate limits of the city,
and said operator must provide evidence of said insurance coverage upon request
of a police officer of the city.
   (B)   Failure to have the required insurance or failure to produce evidence
of the same shall result, upon conviction, in assessment of a fine of not less
than $100 nor more than $500, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   The request for the required insurance by a police officer of the city
can only be made in conjunction with a motor vehicle or operator violation or
as a result of a motor vehicle accident.
(Ord. 98-004, passed 4-1-1998)
§ 32.05  CONTRACTOR TRAINING.
   (A)   The public works projects of this city are subject to the requirements
of RSMo. § 292.675, which requires all contractors or subcontractors doing work
on the project to provide and require its on-site employees to complete a ten-
hour course in construction safety and health approved by the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or a similar program approved by the
state’s Department of Labor and Industrial Relations which is at least as
stringent as an approved OSHA program. The training must be completed within 60
days of the date work on the project commences. On-site employees found on the
worksite without documentation of the required training shall have 20 days to
produce such documentation.
   (B)   Any request for bids shall specify the requirements of RSMo. §
292.675.
   (C)   Any contract awarded shall specify the requirements of RSMo. § 292.675
and shall include a notice of the penalties for a contractor’s failure to
comply with that statute.
(Ord. 12-002, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 32.06  OPEN MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   The Board of Aldermen hereby adopt the following policy to apply to all
governmental bodies and committees of this municipality.
   (A)   All meetings, records, and votes are open to the public, except the
governmental body may close any meeting, record, or vote relating to the
following:
      (1)   Legal actions, causes of action, or litigation involving a public
governmental body and any confidential or privileged communications between a
public governmental body or its representatives and its attorneys. However, any
vote relating to litigation involving a public governmental body shall be made
public upon final disposition of the matter voted upon; provided, however, in
matters involving the exercise of the power of eminent domain, the vote shall
be announced or become public immediately following the action on the motion to
authorize institution of such a legal action. Legal work product shall be
considered a closed record;
      (2)   Lease, purchase, or sale of real estate by a public governmental
body where public knowledge of the transaction might adversely affect the legal
consideration therefor. However, any vote or public record approving a contract
relating to the lease, purchase, or sale of real estate by a public
governmental body shall be made public upon execution of the lease, purchase,
or sale of the real estate;
      (3)   Hiring, firing, disciplining, or promoting an employee of a public
governmental body. However, any vote on a final decision, when taken by a
public governmental body, to hire, fire, promote, or discipline an employee of
a public governmental body must be made available to the public with a record
of how each member voted within 72 hours of the close of the meeting where such
action occurs; provided, however, that any employee so affected shall be
entitled to prompt notice before such decision is made available to the public;
      (4)    Welfare cases if identifiable individuals;
      (5)   Preparation, including any discussions or work product, on behalf
of a public governmental body or its representatives for negotiations with
employee groups;
      (6)   Software codes for electronic data processing and documentation
thereof;
      (7)   Specifications for competitive bidding, until either the
specifications are officially approved by the public governmental body or the
specifications are published for bid;
      (8)   Sealed bids and related documents, until the earlier of either when
the bids are opened, or all bids are accepted or all bids are rejected;
      (9)   Individually identifiable personnel records, performance ratings,
or records pertaining to employees or applicants for employment, except that
this exemption shall not apply to the names, positions, salaries, and lengths
of service of officers and employees of public agencies once they are employed
as such;
      (10)   Records that are protected from disclosure by law;
      (11)   Meetings and public records relating to scientific and
technological innovations in which the owner has a proprietary interest;
      (12)   Confidential or privileged communications between a public
governmental body and its auditor, including all auditor work product;
      (13)   Operational guidelines and policies developed, adopted, or
maintained by any public agency responsible for law enforcement, public safety,
first response, or public health for use in responding to or preventing any
critical incident which is or appears to be terrorist in nature and which has
the potential to endanger individual or public safety or health. Nothing in
this exception shall be deemed to close information regarding expenditures,
purchases, or contracts made by an agency in implementing these guidelines or
policies. When seeking to close information pursuant to this exception, the
agency shall affirmatively state in writing that disclosure would impair its
ability to protect the safety or health of persons, and shall in the same
writing state that the public interest in nondisclosure outweighs the public
interest in disclosure of the records;
      (14)   (a)   Existing or proposed security systems and structural plans
of real property owned or leased by a public governmental body, and information
that is voluntarily submitted by a non-public entity owning or operating an
infrastructure to any public governmental body for use by that body to devise
plans for protection of that infrastructure, the public disclosure of which
would threaten public safety.
         (b)   Records related to the procurement of or expenditures relating
to security systems purchased with public funds shall be open.
         (c)   When seeking to close information pursuant to this exception,
the public governmental body shall affirmatively state in writing that
disclosure would impair the public governmental body’s ability to protect the
security of safety of persons or real property, and shall in the same writing
state that the public interest in nondisclosure outweighs the public interest
in disclosure of the records.
         (d)   Records that are voluntarily submitted by a nonpublic entity
shall be reviewed within 90 days of submission to determine if retention of the
document is necessary in furtherance of a security interest. If retention is
not necessary, the documents shall be returned to the nonpublic governmental
body or destroyed.
      (15)   Records that identify the configuration of components or the
operation of a computer, computer system, computer network, or
telecommunications network, and would allow unauthorized access to or unlawful
disruption of a computer, computer system, computer network, or
telecommunications network of a public governmental body. This exception shall
not be used to limit or deny access to otherwise public records in a file,
document, data file, or database containing public records. Records related to
the procurement of or expenditures relating to such computer, computer system,
computer network, or telecommunications network, including the amount of moneys
paid by, or on behalf of, a public governmental body for such computer,
computer system, computer network, or telecommunications network shall be open;
and
      (16)   Credit card numbers, personal identification numbers, digital
certificates, physical and virtual keys, access codes, or authorization codes
that are used to protect the security of electronic transactions between a
public governmental body and a person or entity doing business with a public
governmental body. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to close the record
of a person or entity using a credit card held in the name of a public
governmental body or any record of a transaction made by a person using a
credit card or other method of payment for which reimbursement is made by a
public governmental body.
   (B)   All records that may be closed hereby are deemed closed records unless
the governmental body votes to make them public. Before closing a meeting to
the public, a majority of a quorum of the governmental body must vote to do so
in a public vote. The vote of each member of the governmental body on the
question of closing the meeting or vote and the reason for closing the meeting
by reference to a specific exception shall be announced at a public meeting and
entered into the minutes.
   (C)   The governmental body shall give notice of the time, date and place of
a closed meeting and the reason for holding it by reference to a specific
exception. The notice shall be the same as in division (D) below. No other
business may be discussed in a closed meeting that does not directly relate to
the specific reason announced to close the meeting to the public. Public
governmental bodies holding a closed meeting must close only an existing
portion of the meeting facility necessary to house the members of the public
governmental body in the closed session, allowing members of the public to
remain to attend any subsequent open session held by the public governmental
body following the closed session.
   (D)   The governmental body shall give notice of the time, date, place, and
tentative agenda of each meeting. The notice shall be placed on the appropriate
bulletin board at City Hall at least 24 hours, exclusive of weekends and
holidays, prior to the meeting. If an emergency makes it impossible to give 24
hours’ notice, the reason must be reflected in the minutes. Notice also shall
be given to any representative of the news media who requests notice of a
particular meeting.
   (E)   Each meeting shall be held at a place reasonably accessible to the
public, and at a time reasonably convenient to the public, unless for good
cause such a place or time is impossible or impractical. When it is necessary
to hold a meeting on less than 24 hours’ notice, or at a place that is not
reasonably accessible to the public, or at a time that is not reasonably
convenient to the public, the nature of the good cause justifying that
departure from the normal requirements shall be stated in the minutes.
   (F)   A formally constituted subunit of a parent governmental body may
conduct a meeting without notice during a lawful meeting of the parent
governmental body, a recess in that meeting, or immediately following that
meeting, if the meeting of the subunit is publicly announced at the parent
meeting and the subject of the meeting reasonably coincides with the subjects
discussed or acted upon by the parent governmental body.
   (G)   A public body shall allow for the recording by audiotape, videotape,
or other electronic means of any open meeting. A public body may establish
guidelines regarding the manner in which such recording is conducted so as to
minimize disruption to the meeting. No audio recording of any meeting, record,
or vote closed pursuant to the provisions of RSMo. § 610.021 shall be permitted
without permission of the public body. Any person who violates this provision
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor.
   (H)   Any member of a public governmental body who transmits any message
relating to public business by electronic means shall also concurrently
transmit that message to either the member’s public office computer or the
custodian of records in the same format. The provisions of this section shall
only apply to messages sent to two or more members of that body so that, when
counting the sender, a majority of the body’s members are copied. Any such
message received by the custodian or at the member’s office computer shall be a
public record subject to the exceptions above.
   (I)   (1)   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of records and will be
responsible for maintenance and control of all records. The custodian shall
provide public access to all public records as soon as possible, but no later
than the third business day following the date the request is received by the
custodian. If additional delay is necessary, the custodian shall give an
explanation for the delay and the date the record will be available for
inspection.
      (2)   If a request for access is denied, the custodian shall provide,
upon request, a written statement of the grounds for such denial. Such
statement shall cite the specific provision of law under which access is denied
and shall be furnished to the requester no later than the end of the third
business day following the date the request for the statement is received.
      (3)   The custodian shall charge $0.10 per page no larger than nine by 11
inches, $10 per hour for duplicating time, and the actual cost of research
time. The custodian shall receive payment prior to duplicating copies.
      (4)   Fees for providing access to public records maintained on computer
facilities, recording, tapes or disks, videotapes or films, pictures, maps,
slides, graphics, illustrations or similar audio or visual items or devices,
and for paper copies larger than nine by 14 inches shall include only the cost
of copies, staff time, which shall not exceed the average hourly rate of pay
for staff of the public governmental body required for making copies and
programming, if necessary, and the cost of the disk, tape, or other medium used
for the duplication. Fees for maps, blueprints, or plats that require special
expertise to duplicate may include the actual rate of compensation for the
trained personnel required to duplicate such maps, blueprints, or plats. If
programming is required beyond the customary and usual level to comply with a
request for records or information, the fees for compliance may include the
actual costs of such programming.
      (5)   The custodian may designate deputy custodians in the following
departments: administration and court.
(Ord. 04-004, passed 8-17-2004)
OFFICIALS/EMPLOYEES
§ 32.20  EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Office Employee Handbook will be distributed to all present office
employees and all future office employees of the city and will be their guide
to questions which might arise during the course of their employment with the
city.
   (B)   The Office Employee Handbook shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Amendments to the employment categories, vacation benefits, holidays,
and sick leave benefits sections in the Office Employee Handbook and the Police
Department Employee Handbook are adopted by reference and continue in force.
(Ord. 02-005, passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 02-006, passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 12-005,
passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 13-005, passed 8-6-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. §§ 610.021, 610.022, 610.025
§ 32.21  SICK PAY.
   (A)   All full-time city employees whose rate of pay is on a monthly basis
shall earn sick leave at regular pay at the rate of one-half day for each
calender month of service. Sick leave shall begin to accrue upon the successful
completion of the six-month probationary period.
   (B)   Sick leave may never be taken in advance of earning the time. Sick
leave may be accumulated up to six days in one calendar year. Each year shall
begin a new series of accrual, and the previous years accumulated days shall be
taken off the sick leave record with no compensation.
   (C)   An employee may be eligible for sick leave for the following reasons:
      (1)   Personal illness or physical incapacity; or
      (2)   Quarantine of an employee by a physician.
   (D)   An employee who is unable to report for work because of one of the
above reasons shall report the reason for his or her absence to the City
Administrator, City Clerk, or Mayor within four hours from the time he or she
is expected to report for work. Sick leave with pay in excess of two working
days shall be allowed only after presenting a written statement by a physician
certifying that the employee’s condition prevented the employee from appearing
for work.
   (E)   An employee terminating from city service shall not be allowed the use
of sick leave in the last two calendar weeks of employment. Unused sick leave
will not be compensated for in any way at the time of resignation or dismissal
of an employee.
   (F)   Abuse of sick leave privilege can result in dismissal.
   (G)   As required by 42 U.S.C. § 2000e(k), pregnancy and pregnancy-related
conditions shall be treated the same as any other illness or short-term
disability.
   (H)   Sick leave is provided as an aid to salaried employees and should be
used only when there is a real need. Each employee should make every effort to
establish steady work habits.
(Res. 91-006, passed 11-19-1991)
§ 32.22  BENEFITS.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to
extend to all eligible employees and officials of said city who are not
excluded by law or by this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function of said city, the benefits of the system
of Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability Insurance, as authorized by the RSMo.
§§ 105.300 through 105.445, as the same may be now and hereafter in effect.
   (B)   There shall be deducted from the wages of all employees and officials
of the city, to whom the benefits of said system of Federal Old-Age, Survivors,
Disability Insurance are extended, by virtue of the plan and agreement
hereinbefore provided for, the amount of each of said employees’ and officials’
contributions, as determined by the applicable state and federal laws and by
said plan and agreement, the aggregate amount of said deductions to be paid
into the OASDI Trust Fund created pursuant to RSMo. § 105.390: provided,
however, that from the first payment of wages made to each of said employees
and officials after the benefits of said system have been extended to such
employees and officials, there shall be deducted a sum equal to the amount
which would have been due and payable from each said employee and official had
said extension of benefits been provided and effective on January 1, 1988.
   (C)   There is hereby authorized to be appropriated from the General Fund,
and there is, and shall be, appropriated the sum or sums of money necessary to
pay the contributions of the city, which shall be due and payable by virtue of
the extension of the benefits of the Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability
Insurance System to the eligible employees and officials of said city, said sum
or sums of money to be paid into the OASDI Trust Fund created pursuant to RSMo.
§ 105.390: provided, however, that in making the first payment to said OASDI
Trust Fund, after the benefits of said system have been extended to such
employees and officials, said first payment shall include a sum equal to the
amount which would have been due and payable had said extension of benefits
been provided and effective on January 1, 1988. The fund from which said
appropriation is made will, at all times, be sufficient to pay the
contributions of the city by this section directed to be paid to said OASDI
Trust Fund.
   (D)   The city shall fully comply with, and shall keep such records, make
such reports, and provide such methods of administration of said plan and
agreement as may be required by all applicable state and federal laws, rules,
and regulations now and hereafter in effect with respect to the extension of
the benefits of the Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability Insurance System to
the employees and officials of this city. For the purpose of administering said
plan and agreement, the City Clerk shall be the official who shall make all
required reports, keep all records, and be responsible for the administration
of said plan and agreement.
(Ord. 88-50, passed 3-21-1988)
§ 32.23  PAROLE, PROBATION, AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Parole or probation. Any judge hearing violations of municipal
ordinances may, when in his or her judgment it may seem advisable, grant a
parole or probation to any person who shall plead guilty or who shall be
convicted after a trial before said judge.
   (B)   Conditions of probation: compensation of victims: free work, public or
charitable.
      (1)   The condition of probation shall be such as the court in its
discretion deems reasonably necessary to ensure that the defendant will not
again violate the law.
      (2)   When a defendant is placed on probation, he or she shall be given a
certificate explicitly stating the conditions on which he or she is being
released.
      (3)   In addition to such other authority as exists to order conditions
of probation, the court may order such conditions as the court believes will
serve to compensate the victim, any dependent of the victim, or society. Such
conditions may include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Restitution to the victim or any dependent of the victim, in an
amount to be determined by the judge;
         (b)   The performance of a designated amount of free work for a public
or charitable purpose or purposes, as determined by the judge;
         (c)   The assessment of such jail time, so long as such jail time is
within the range of punishment authorized by ordinance or law for the offense
charged;
         (d)   The assessment of a such fine so long as such amount is within
the range of punishment authorized by ordinance or law for the offense charged;
and/or
         (e)   Completion of alcohol or substance abuse education, evaluation,
or treatment programs at the expense of the defendant.
      (4)   The defendant may refuse probation conditioned on the performance
of free work. If he or she does so, the court shall decide the extent or
duration of sentence or other disposition to be imposed and render judgment
accordingly.
      (5)   The court may modify or enlarge the conditions of probation at any
time prior to the expiration or termination of the probation term.
      (6)   The court may suspend either the imposition or execution of
sentence as a condition of
probation.
   (C)   Any county, city, person, organization, or agency, or employee of a
county, city, organization, or agency charged with the supervision of such free
work or who benefits from its performance shall be immune from any suit by the
defendant or any person deriving a cause of action from him or her, if such
cause or action arises from such supervision or performance, except for an
intentional tort or gross negligence. The services performed by the defendant
shall not be deemed employment within the meaning of the provisions of RSMo.
Chapter 288.
(Ord. 98-001, passed 1-27-1998)
CHAPTER 33:  POLICE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Training
   
33.02   Police Department Employee Handbook adopted
   
33.03   Standard operating procedure adopted
   
33.04   Standard operating procedure amendments
   
33.05   Fresh pursuit
Excessive Force
   
33.20   Policy adopted
   
33.21   Violation
Chief of Police
   
33.35   Tenure and compensation
   
33.36   Qualifications
   
33.37   Role and duties
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  TRAINING.
   (A)   All newly hired peace officers shall be required to have no less than
120 hours of training for certification by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Newly hired law enforcement officers shall have a one-year period
after appointment to be certified by the Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 96-001, passed 1-16-1996)
§ 33.02  POLICE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Police Department Employee Handbook will be distributed to all
present Police Department employees and all future Police Department employees
of the city, and will be their guide to questions which might arise during the
course of their employment with the city.
   (B)   The amendments shown in Exhibit A to the employment categories,
vacation benefits, holidays, and sick leave benefits sections in the Office
Employee Handbook adopted by Ord. 02-005 and the Police Department Employee
Handbook, adopted by division (A) above, be adopted.
   (C)   The section on cell phones be added under work conditions and hours of
the Police Department Employee Handbook, adopted by division (A) above, be
adopted.
   (D)   The amendment to the dress code and insignias, as shown in Exhibit A
of Ord. 17-009 amending Ord. 17-002, is adopted.
(Ord. 02-006, passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 12-005, passed 7-3-2012; Ord. 13-005,
passed 8-6-2013; Ord. 17-009, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 33.03  STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE ADOPTED.
   The standard operating procedure will be presented to all present Police
Department personnel and all future personnel of the Department.
(Ord. 92-001, passed 1-21-1992)
§ 33.04  STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   It has been deemed to be in the best interests of the city and the
Police Department to make additions, corrections, or deletions to certain areas
of the Police Department standard operating procedures. These standard
operating procedures will provide the guidelines for both regular and reserve
officers in carrying out the procedures as authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
These procedures will be complied in the form of manuals, to be distributed to
all present and future regular and reserve officers.
   (B)   It has been deemed to be in the best interests of the city and the
Police Department to make additions, corrections, or deletions to section
number 99-09 Pursuit & Emergency Vehicle Operations of the Police Department
Standard Operating Procedures.
   (C)   It has been deemed to be in the best interests of the city and the
Police Department to make additions, corrections, or deletions to section
number 99-06 departmental property and add section number 07-01 ride along
program of the Police Department standard operating procedures.
   (D)   It has been deemed to be in the best interests of the city and the
Police Department to add section number 08.001 inclement weather operations of
the Police Department Standard Operating Procedures.
   (E)   It has been deemed to be in the best interests of the city and the
Police Department to add section number 14.001 patrol rifle policy of the
Police Department standard operating procedures.
(Ord. 96-006, passed 3-28-1996; Ord. 03-006, passed 8-5-2003; Ord. 05-001,
passed 1-18-2005; Ord. 07-001, passed 4-17-2007; Ord. 08-002, passed 4-1-2008;
Ord. 14-001, passed 1-7-2014)
§ 33.05  FRESH PURSUIT.
   (A)   The term FRESH PURSUIT shall include hot or fresh pursuit of a person
who has committed a felony or is reasonably suspected of having committed a
felony in this state, or who has committed or attempted to commit in this state
a criminal offense or violation of municipal or county ordinance in the
presence of the arresting officer or for whom such officer holds a warrant of
arrest for a criminal offense. FRESH PURSUIT as used herein shall imply instant
pursuit.
   (B)   City police officers certified pursuant to RSMo. Chapter 590 may
engage in fresh pursuit of a person who is reasonably believed by such officer
to have committed a felony in this state or who has committed or attempted to
commit, in the presence of such officer, any criminal offense or violation of a
municipal or county ordinance, or for whom such officer holds a warrant of
arrest for a criminal offense, shall have the authority to arrest and hold in
custody such person anywhere in this state.
   (C)   Fresh pursuit may only be initiated from within the corporate city
limits of the city and shall be terminated once the officer is outside the city
limits and has lost contact with the person being pursued. If the offense is a
traffic violation, the uniform traffic ticket shall be used as if the violator
had been apprehended within the city limits in which the offense occurred.
Pursuing officer will advise the dispatcher when entering another jurisdiction.
   (C)   Police officers are to remember that public safety is of the utmost
importance and cease fresh pursuit immediately if the officer deems it unsafe,
a supervisor orders it terminated, or requested to terminate the pursuit by
another agency.
(Ord. 99-006, passed 4-20-1999)
EXCESSIVE FORCE
§ 33.20  POLICY ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts and will enforce this policy prohibiting the use of
excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any
individual engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations. The city also
prohibits the physical barring of any entrance or exit to such a facility and
will enforce all applicable state laws in this regard.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 33.21  VIOLATION.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this subchapter will
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 5-3-2011)
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 33.35  TENURE AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval
of the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The beginning rate of compensation will be determined by the Board of
Aldermen.
   (C)   Salary increases and all other employee benefits will be as
established by the city Police Department Employee Handbook.
   (D)   A workweek will consist of no less than 40 hours a week, which can
include holiday time, sick time, and/or vacation.
   (E)   This is a salaried position and no additional compensation will be
given for over 40 hours. Under special circumstances, the Board of Alderman may
approve additional compensation.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 2-5-2015)
§ 33.36  QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Knowledge of the principles and practices of management, and knowledge
of modern methods and system of policing in the community.
   (B)   The ability to develop thorough skillful leadership and harmonious
working relations through which a high standard of work performance may be
maintained.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 2-5-2015)
§ 33.37  ROLE AND DUTIES.
   (A)   This is the top administrative position for the Police Department, and
the Chief of Police is responsible to the Mayor and/or City Administrator and
the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The Chief of Police will be in full uniform at all times when on duty.
   (C)   This position requires the ability to plan, control, train, and budget
utilizing humanistic, technical, and conceptual skills.
   (D)   Knowledge of federal, state, and city laws are necessary to provide
police services without violation of people’s rights and causing undue
liability by enforcing city ordinances.
   (E)   The maximum shift hours in a day that may be scheduled for the Chief
of Police is 12 hours, unless prior written approval is made by the Mayor. The
Chief of Police may schedule his or her shift between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
12:00 p.m. No hours will be permitted between 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m., except
at the discretion of the Mayor.
   (F)   The Chief of Police will notify dispatch when coming on duty and
ending duty; this is to include administrative time as well as patrol time.
   (G)   The Chief of Police will work holidays on rotation with other
officers.
   (H)   Because of the current size of the city and the Police Department, the
Chief of Police’s job is to be considered a working position. At least one-half
of the Chief of Police’s time is to be spent on patrol duty.
   (I)   Maintain co-operation, communication, and a good working relationship
with other city departments and attend meetings as required.
   (J)   Maintain a good working relationship with other police and law
enforcement agencies in the area, including prosecutors, probation, water
patrol, and the lake area drug task force regarding crime control, prevention,
and successful prosecution.
   (K)   Formulate Department policies and rules, updating the standard
operating manual as needed and submit to the Mayor and Board of Aldermen for
approval.
   (L)   Prepare annual budget, control spending, and authorize expenditures up
to $300. Expenditures over $300 must be presented to the Board of Aldermen for
approval.
   (M)   Taking into consideration safety, oversee maintenance of all
equipment, including service and replacement.
   (N)   Keep a current inventory of all Police Department equipment, supplies,
and materials and maintain the required system or methods for replacing and
resupplying said equipment, supplies, and materials.
   (O)   Identify, apply for, and administer any and all police grants for the
benefit of the city.
   (P)   Taking into consideration the size and general population of the city,
perform whatever task as needed to maintain a safe and progressive working
environment for the city.
   (Q)   Attend information meetings, organizational hearings, educational
functions/facilities, and/or service organizations for the purpose of
explaining and promoting the function and mission of the city’s Police
Department.
   (R)   The position of the Chief of Police is to be considered full-time
employment. Any additional employment by any other agencies, government bodies,
or private institutions, whether part-time or full-time, paid or unpaid, must
be approved by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen.
   (S)   Identify, interview, and screen applicants for the positions of full-
time, part-time, and reserve police officers for the city.
   (T)   The Chief of Police shall approve by signature all activity and time
sheets. All time sheets are to be approved, signed, and submitted to the Mayor
by noon on Monday of the pay week.
   (U)   Develop and maintain the duty roster of all officers, including the
Chief of the Police Department. Said roster should identify the total officer
coverage of the city on a week period and shall be prepared and posted at least
one week before the beginning of the four-week period.
   (V)   Maintain and control the inventory of all evidence regarding criminal
prosecution as well as the primary control of a secured evidence locker or
facility for the safe and secure storage of all evidence.
   (W)   Time spent on charity events, walk/runs only counts as time worked if
in full uniform.
   (X)   A city vehicle is to be used for all city business trips. Use of
personal vehicle will not be allowed unless written authorization is received
from the Mayor.
(Ord. 15-001, passed 2-5-2015)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall by subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person convicted of violating §
33.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $100 for each violation. Each day on which such violation occurs shall
be deemed to be a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
33.20 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCES
Section
   
34.01   Semi-annual financial statements
   
34.02   Criminal case fee
   
34.03   Warrant fee
§ 34.01  SEMI-ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall prepare, semi-annually, full and detailed
accounts and statements of receipts, expenditures, and indebtedness of the
city.
   (B)   Based on a fiscal year beginning July 1 of one year and extending
through June 30 of the following year, these semi-annual financial statements
shall be due and shall be published in a county newspaper of general
circulation no later than August 15 and February 15, respectively.
   (C)   In the event the financial statements are not completed and published
as required, no moneys shall be paid out of the city treasury on any warrant or
order of the Board of Aldermen until such time as such financial statements are
published.
(Ord. 94-002, passed 8-23-1994)
§ 34.02  CRIMINAL CASE FEE.
   There shall be a fee of $2 per case in certain criminal cases as provided
for in RSMo. § 488.5336, and these fees shall be forwarded to the Department of
Public Safety.
(Ord. 93-012, passed 11-23-1993)
§ 34.03  WARRANT FEE.
   The charge shall be set at $20 per warrant to cover warrants served or
recalled.
(Ord. 93-014, passed 11-23-1993)
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
35.01   Designation
   
35.02   Duties of the city’s Prosecuting Attorney
   
35.03   Costs
   
35.04   Costs assessment
   
35.05   Bonds
   
35.06   Failure of defendant to appear
   
35.07   Payment of standard fine and costs in lieu of appearance
§ 35.01  DESIGNATION.
   The 26th Judicial Court of Camden County, Missouri, is hereby designated as
the Municipal Court of Linn Creek, Missouri.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.02  DUTIES OF THE CITY’S PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of an attorney designated by the city to prosecute the
violations of the city’s ordinances before the 26th Associate Circuit Court
Judge of Camden County, Missouri, hearing violations of the city’s ordinances.
The salary or fees of the attorney and his or her necessary expenses incurred
in such prosecutions shall be paid by the city. The compensation of such
attorney shall not be contingent upon the number of cases tried, the number of
guilty verdicts reached, or the amount of fines imposed or collected.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.03  COSTS.
   (A)   In addition to any fine that may be imposed by the judge, there shall
be assessed as costs, in all cases where the defendant pleads guilty or is
found guilty, the following:
      (1)   Clerk fee: $15.00. RSMo. § 21.01(a)(5).
      (2)   Statewide court automation: $7.00. RSMo. § 476.056.
      (3)   Law Enforcement Training Fund: $2.00. RSMo. § 488.5336.1. These
monies shall be credited to the Law Enforcement Training Fund and shall be paid
to the State Treasurer to be expended for the training required by RSMo. §§
590.100 through 590.180, providing that any excess funds not required to pay
for such training may be used to pay for additional training for peace officers
or for training other law enforcement officers employed or appointed by the
city.
      (4)   Peace Officer Standards and Training Commission fund: $1.00. RSMo.
§ 488.5336.1. These monies shall be sent to the Missouri Treasurer to be
expended for law enforcement training pursuant to RSMo. § 590.178.
      (5)   Victims of domestic violence: $2.00. RSMo. § 488.607. These monies
shall be collected for the purpose of providing operating expenses for shelters
of domestic violence established pursuant to RSMo. §§ 455.200 through 455.230.
The judge may waive assessment of this cost in cases where the defendant is
found by the Judge to be indigent and unable to pay the costs.
      (6)   Inmate Security Fund: $2.00. RSMo. § 488.5026.
      (7)   Crime Victim’s Compensation Fund: $7.50. § 595.045.6.
      (8)   Costs for issuance of a warrant, commitment, summons, subpoena,
continuance or other process or proceeding as provided before the Associate
Circuit Judge in criminal cases in the 26th Judicial Court.
      (9)   Apprehension and confinement costs shall be the actual costs
assessed against the city by the County Sheriff.
      (10)   Actual expense incurred in any other confinement facility.
      (11)   Mileage in the same amount as authorized for the Sheriff for each
mile and fraction thereof an officer must travel (round-trip) in order to serve
any warrant, commitment or order of the Court.
      (12)   Sheriff retirement fund surcharge: $3.00. RSMo. § 488.024. The
city shall have an agreement with the State of Missouri to collect these funds
and direct them to the Missouri Sheriff’s retirement fund.
   (B)   A trial de novo application shall be $30.00 pursuant to RSMo. §
488.020.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.04  COSTS ASSESSMENT.
   The costs of any action may be assessed against the prosecuting witness, and
a judgement entered against the witness ordering the witness to pay the same
and that the witness be committed until the costs are paid in any case where
the Municipal Judge finds that the prosecution commenced vexatiously or with
probable case or, in such case when the prosecuting witness fails to appear
without good cause, or, upon appearing, refuses to testify on other
constitutional grounds.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.05  BONDS.
   (A)   Any person arrested for violation, failure, neglect or refusal to
comply with any provision, regulation or requirement of any ordinance may be
admitted to bail by executing a bail bond to the county with good and
sufficient security to be approved by the judge; or, in his or her absence or
inaccessibility, by the Clerk of the Court, in the amount not less than $2.00
and not more that $500.00, conditioned that such person shall appear upon the
day named therein (no later than 30 days from the date of the bond) before the
court and await the trial upon the charge against him or her.
   (B)   Every bail bond shall be filed forthwith with the Clerk of the Court
by the officer taking the bond, provided that no attorney; police officer; or
any officer of the city, whether elected or appointed, shall be listed as a
surety upon any bail provided for in this section.
   (C)   In lieu of sureties on the bond, the judge or, in his or her absence
or inaccessibility, the Clerk of the Court may permit the posting of a cash
bond. The Chief of Police, the Assistant Chief of Police or any officer in
charge of the Police Department shall state on the bail bond the receipt of the
cash deposit.
   (D)   The city shall, in no manner, be responsible to any depositor of a
cash bail bond. However, the person receiving the cash deposit shall be
prosecuted by the City Attorney or other proper officer for failure to account
for and pay over the deposit.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.06  FAILURE OF DEFENDANT TO APPEAR.
   (A)   If a defendant giving a bail bond or cash bond shall fail to appear
when and where the case is called in the court, the judge may order the
defendant  to be apprehended and brought before him or her, or the judge may
render a judgement for forfeiture for the full amount of the bond or deposit,
at which time the bond or deposit shall be forfeited.
   (B)   If a bail bond has been given, the amount of the judgement thereon
shall be collected from the defendant and his or her sureties according to law,
including the issuance of execution.
   (C)   The judge may, for good cause, set aside the forfeiture at any time
within four days from the date of forfeiture.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
§ 35.07  PAYMENT OF STANDARD FINE AND COSTS IN LIEU OF COURT APPEARANCE.
   Except for those cases as designated by the Municipal Court that require the
appearance in court by the defendant or for any other offense that the officer
who was written the citation indicates that the defendant must appear in court,
a defendant charged in a municipal ordinance violation may pay the standard
fine and costs, as approved by the judge, in lieu of a court appearance,
provided that the payment is made to the Court Clerk to the scheduled court
date.
(Ord. 17-007, passed 9-7-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Combining water and sewer systems
Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Rates
   
50.16   Deposit required
   
50.17   New meter installations
   
50.18   Delinquent bills
   
50.19   Disconnection for late payment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  COMBINING WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   The existing waterworks and the existing sewer system of the city and all
future improvements and extensions thereto, whether to the waterworks or to the
sewer system or to both, shall be and the same are hereby combined and
thenceforth shall be operated and maintained as a combined waterworks and sewer
system.
(Ord. 90-05, passed 5-1-1990)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15  RATES.
   There shall be a minimum rate charge of $3.45 plus $0.0071 per additional
gallons.
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 50.16  DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Water meter and/or sewer deposit required:
   (A)   Residential renters, $125;
   (B)   Residential property owners, $50;
   (C)   Commercial renters, $125; and
   (D)   Commercial owners, $50.
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 50.17  NEW METER INSTALLATIONS.
   New water service installation fees:
   (A)   Five-eights of an inch by three-fourths of an inch service, meter only
per hook-up, $900;
   (B)   One-inch service, meter only per hook-up, $1,050; and
   (C)   Two-inch service, meter only per hook-up, $1,200.
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 50.18  DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Water and sewer customers shall be billed monthly.
   (B)   Billings shall be sent to customers no later than the fifth of the
month.
   (C)   Payments are due when billings are made and shall be considered
delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth day of the month of the billing.
   (D)   Service to customers whose bills remain unpaid by the twenty-fifth of
the month of the billing shall be sent disconnection notices and services shall
be shut off unless other arrangements are made with the City Clerk.
   (E)   A late penalty of 10% will be added to each delinquent bill and after
each 30 days the bill remains unpaid.
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 50.19  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $45.
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
Water Use
   
51.01   General policy
   
51.02   Reading water meters
   
51.03   Water temporarily unmetered
   
51.04   Accounts due
   
51.05   Discontinued service
   
51.06   Responsibility for payment
   
51.07   Service connection to mains
   
51.08   Water service maintenance
   
51.09   Access to premises served
   
51.10   Service discontinued
   
51.11   Misuse of property
Connection and Regulation
   
51.30   Definitions
   
51.31   Connection required
   
51.32   Privately owned public water system
   
51.33   Unlawful acts
   
51.34   Classes of connections
   
51.35   Costs of installation/connection
   
51.36   Construction materials
   
51.37   Inspection
   
51.38   Protection during excavation
   
51.39   Damage to water system
   
51.40   Authority to enter premises
User Charge System
   
51.55   Purpose
   
51.56   Definitions
   
51.57   Managing fund
   
51.58   Use rate structure
   
51.59   Billing
   
51.60   Annual review and notice
   
51.61   New service
   
51.62   Financial relief
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Delinquent accounts, see §
50.18
   Rates, see §
50.15
WATER USE
§ 51.01  GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   These rules and regulations have been adopted to govern the water
services furnished by the city in a uniform manner for the benefit of the city
and its water users.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Board of Aldermen shall act as ex-officio Board of
Water Commissioners for the management and operation of the municipal
waterworks.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.02  READING WATER METERS.
   (A)   Meters in Ward I will be read between the last day of the month and
the first day of the following month.
   (B)   Meters in Ward II will be read between the first and second day of the
month.
   (C)   Exception to the above will be in the event a scheduled meter reading
falls on a weekend or a holiday; meters will then be read on the first working
day following that weekend or holiday.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.03  WATER TEMPORARILY UNMETERED.
   In case of failure to obtain the metered measurement of water delivered to
any consumer because of a temporary defect in the meter serving his or her
premises or for a similar reason, the City Clerk may fix the cost of the
unmetered water so used on the basis of the average metered amounts of water
consumed on the customer’s premises in the corresponding months in not more
than three previous years. In case there is reason to believe that water used
on the premises has increased or decreased within this period of time or in
case the metered consumption on the premises in these three prior years is not
known, the bill for any one month of unmetered consumption may be based on the
records for the most recent three months for which metered consumption is
known.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.04  ACCOUNTS DUE.
   All bills shall be due and payable from and after the date such bills are
rendered, at the office of the City Clerk during regular hours of business.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.05  DISCONTINUED SERVICE.
   If any bill for water service shall be and remain as long as 30 days past
due and unpaid, service to such customers shall be discontinued, and shall not
be reconnected until all past dues are paid in full, together with a
reconnection fee of $30. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to notify the
Superintendent of the Water Department of such delinquency and such
Superintendent shall proceed immediately to disconnect water service.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.06  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of persons owning rental property to
advise the City Clerk of the tenants’ names and addresses and whether the owner
or the tenant will be paying the monthly water bills.
   (B)   If the tenant who has been paying the water bills fails to pay, or
moves leaving a delinquent account, and that tenant cannot be located for
extraction of payment, then it shall become the property owner’s responsibility
to pay for all water consumed on the premises.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.07  SERVICE CONNECTION TO MAINS.
   (A)   The cost of water service connections from the consumer’s premises to
the city water mains shall be borne by the owner of the premises and the main
taps or other means of connections at the main shall be made by the Water
Department after the owner of the premises, or his or her authorized agent, in
accordance with the charges for such work which shall be fixed from time to
time by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The charge for installation of a main tap or other connections shall
be $350 and shall be paid to the City Clerk prior to the city making the tap.
   (C)   When any employee of the city shall make a water connection to any
premises, he or she shall, within 48 hours thereafter, in writing, notify the
City Clerk of such service, giving the name and address of the person to whom
said service and meter has been installed.
   (D)   No employee should have the right to make a connection or install a
water meter to any person, firm, or corporation until an application has been
made and approved by the Board of Aldermen. Such connection will be made only
upon deposit with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.08  WATER SERVICE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of the premises served shall maintain the water
service against the leakage from, but not including, the curb-stop or shut-off
valve on public property to the water meter.
   (B)   The Water Department shall maintain the service from the main to, and
including, the curb-stop and curb box on public property.
   (C)   In case a water service is found to be leaking between the curb-stop
or shut-off valve on public property and the meter or on the customer’s side of
the curb-stop or shut-off valve on unmetered services, the owner or occupant of
the premises served may be required on five days’ notice, or in shorter time,
if public safety or welfare are affected, to have the service repaired. If the
repairs are not made in the time prescribed in the notice, the city may stop
the loss of water by discontinuance of service. Service shall be restored in
such case only after the repairs have been made and the charges for work done
by the city have been assumed by the owner or occupant of the premises served,
or his or her authorized agent.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.09  ACCESS TO PREMISES SERVED.
   Any employee of the Water Department, in the proper exercise of his or her
duties, shall have access at all reasonable hours to any premises served with
water, and such access shall include the right to read, remove, and replace
meters; to inspect, make, or correct meter installations; and to make such
inspections or tests as are necessary to determine if Water Department rules
and regulations are being violated or if water is being wasted or is being used
improperly without permit or license.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 51.10  SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   The city may discontinue service to any water consumer for any one of the
following reasons:
   (A)   For any waste or for unnecessary or unlicensed use of water;
   (B)   For unapproved cross-connection of a customer’s water facilities with
any other source of water supply;
   (C)   For vacation of the property served without notice to the city;
   (D)   For failure to provide free and non-hazardous access to the meter for
reading, removal, inspection, or replacement;
   (E)   For failure to maintain an approved meter setting;
   (F)   For violation of any of the Water Department’s rules and regulations;
and/or
   (G)   For any act that would make it possible for the Water Department to be
defrauded thereby.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
Cross reference:
   Disconnection for late payment, §
50.19
§ 51.11  MISUSE OF PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose or make any attachments to
water mains, hydrants, or appurtenances, except with the knowledge and consent
of the city, and no person shall cause access to a fire hydrant to be
obstructed by debris, building materials, or other means.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988)
CONNECTION AND REGULATION
§ 51.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM.  A public water system which serves at least 15
service connections or regularly serves at least 25 residents on a year-round
basis.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.  Any actual or potential connection or structural
arrangement between a public water system and any other source or system
through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the public water
system any used water, industrial fluid, gas, or substance other than the
intended potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements,
jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or change-over devices, and any
other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of which,
backflow can or may occur are considered CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group.
   pH.  The negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions in an
aqueous solution.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.  A system for provision to the public of piped water
for human consumption, if the system has at least 15 service connections or
regularly serves at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days out of the
year. The system includes any collection, treatment, storage, or distribution
facilities used in connection with the system. A PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM is either
a community water system or a non-community water system.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  Each individual connection of a user to a water main or
pipe for the purpose of conveying water to a point of use.
   SERVICE LINE.  Any water line or pipe connected to a public water supply’s
distribution main or pipe that conveys water to a point of use. Each SERVICE
LINE is owned and maintained by the customer at that service connection and
such line beings at the customer’s side of the meter.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Waterworks who is in responsible
charge of the operation and maintenance of the public water supply serving the
city.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.  All piping, conduits, valves, hydrants, storage
facilities, pumps, and other appurtenances, excluding service connections,
which serve to deliver water from a water treatment plant or source to the
public.
   WATER MAIN.  Any water main line or pipe which conveys water to a point of
use from a water treatment plant, source, or water storage facility. WATER
MAINS are owned and maintained by the city.
   WATER METER.  A water volume measuring and recording device, furnished and/
or installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved
by the city. Each individual service connection shall have a WATER METER.
   WATER TREATMENT PLANT.  A facility which uses specific processes such as
sedimentation, coagulation, filtration, disinfection, aeration, oxidation, ion
exchange, fluoridation, or other processes which serve to add components or to
alter or remove contaminants from a water supply source.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.31  CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, residence, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located access to a public water system within 100 feet of the
property line, is hereby required to connect to such facilities in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter within 60 days after date of official
notice to do so.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.32  PRIVATELY OWNED PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of a privately owned public water
system in the city’s jurisdiction, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $500 shall be paid to the city
at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the licensed operator.
   (C)   (1)   When a public water system becomes available, customers that
connect must physically disconnect from the existing private system (well), in
accordance with the city’s cross-connection prevention ordinance. The well
shall then be properly plugged in accordance with guidelines established by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources Division of Geology and Land Survey
(DGLS) and outlined in state regulation 10 C.S.R. 23-3.110, as amended, unless
the owner wants to keep it functional for uses other than providing drinking
water. A well may only be kept if it remains physically disconnected from the
public water supply’s distribution system, has a functional pump, is connected
to an electrical service, and is pumped at least once in a 12-month period.
      (2)   Upon connecting to the public water system, the appropriate DNR
Regional Office shall be notified, in writing, that the connection(s) have been
completed.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.33  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public water system or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34  CLASSES OF CONNECTIONS.
   There shall be two classes of water system connection permits: one for
residential and commercial service; and one for industrial service. In either
case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $150 for a
residential or commercial building permit and $250 for an industrial permit
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.35  COSTS OF INSTALLATION/CONNECTION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation of the service
line and connection to the public water system shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the water service.
   (B)   A separate and independent service connection shall be provided for
every building.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.36  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   The size, alignment, material used in the construction of new or the
replacement of the existing public water system, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the most recent edition of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources (MDNR), Public Drinking Water Program, Design
Guide for Community Public Water Supplies. A permit to construct, issued by
MDNR, will be received prior to construction, alteration, or extension of the
water system.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.37  INSPECTION.
   The applicant for a public water system connection permit shall notify the
Superintendent when service line is ready for inspection and connection to the
water system. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.38  PROTECTION DURING EXCAVATION.
   All excavations for public water system improvements, replacements, or
repairs shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect
the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory
to the city.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 51.39  DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the public water system.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.40  AUTHORITY TO ENTER PREMISES.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in §
51.33, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees, and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the public water system
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 51.55  PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect charges from all users who use the city’s water system. The proceeds
of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose of operating,
maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public water system.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.56  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE METER.  Any city owned and installed meter which is currently
considered in service and not a secured meter.
   COMMERCIAL USER.  Any user of the city’s water system whose lot, parcel of
real estate, or building is primarily used for business or commercial purposes.
   LANDLORD.  A property owner who does not occupy a premises.
   NEW SERVICE.  The establishment of water service to any lot, parcel of real
estate, or building within the city’s water system by either reestablishing
existing service or establishing service by connection to the water system and
the installation of a water metering unit.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  All expenditures during the useful life of the
system for materials, labor, utilities, and other items of a regularly
recurring ordinary nature which are necessary for managing and maintaining the
system to achieve the capacity and performance for which system was designed
and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances of an infrequent major nature which are necessary
during the useful life of the system to maintain the capacity and performance
for which such works were designed and constructed. The term “operation and
maintenance” includes REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER.  Any user of the city’s water system whose lot, parcel of
real estate, or building is primarily used for domestic dwelling purposes.
   SECURED METER.  Any city owned and installed meter which has been taken out
of service by the city either by removal or having the service line stop valve
closed, thereby denying water supply to the service line.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   USEFUL LIFE.  The estimated period during which the system remains
economically operable.
   USER CHARGE.  The portion of the total water service charge which is levied
in a proportional and adequate manner necessary to defray the cost of
operation, maintenance, debt retirement of bonded capital, and replacement of
the water system.
   WATER METER.  A water volume measuring and recording device, and pressure
reducing device furnished and/or installed by the city.
   WATER SYSTEM.  Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, transmission, and distribution of water. These include transmission
and distribution lines, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment
and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable water supply such
as standby treatment units and any works, including site acquisition of land
that will be part of the treatment process.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.57  MANAGING FUND.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
the costs of annual operation and maintenance including replacement and cost
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
water system which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the user
charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated for
operation and maintenance including replacement of the water system shall be
established by this chapter.
   (B)   The portion of the total user charge collected that is designated for
the operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes, as established
in §
51.58, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   The Operation and Maintenance Account shall be an account
designated for the specific purpose of defraying operation and maintenance
costs (excluding replacement) of the water system. Deposits in the Operation
and Maintenance Account shall be made from operation and maintenance revenue;
and
      (2)   The Replacement Account shall be an account designated for the
specific purpose of ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the
water system. Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made monthly from
the operation and maintenance revenue in an amount adequate to cover the known
and/or reasonably expected expenses in accordance with the schedule established
in Exhibit B and Exhibit C attached to Ord. 12-001.
   (C)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account and
the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in each
subsequent fiscal year, and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement. The user charge rate(s) shall be adjusted such that the
transferred monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the
fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.58  USE RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Each user shall pay for the services provided by the city based on
their use of the water system as determined by the water meter(s) provided by
the city.
   (B)   All monthly user charges will be based on monthly water usage.
   (C)   Each account holder, or property owner in the case of vacant
properties of residential or commercial properties, located within the city’s
water system on which there is installed a city-owned active water metering
device will be charged the minimum base water rate in accordance with the
schedule established in Exhibit A attached to Ord.12-001. In addition, each
account holder or owner will be charged an amount for each 100 gallons
registered on the meter in accordance with the schedule established in Exhibit
A of Ord.12-001.
   (D)   The user charge rates established in this section apply to all users
of the city’s system, regardless of the user’s location.
   (E)   The above procedure has been determined as being necessary to defray
operation and maintenance costs, including replacement, over the expected
usable life of the system.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.59  BILLING.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Payments are due when billings are
made and shall be considered delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth day of the
month of the billing.
   (B)   A late payment penalty of 10% of the user charge bill will be added to
each delinquent bill for each 30 days of delinquency. Service to customers
whose bills remain unpaid by the twenty-second of the month of the billing,
shall be shut-off unless prior arrangements have been made with the City Clerk
or his or her designated agent. Reconnection fees, as shown in Exhibit F of
Ord. 12-001, shall be paid before service is restored.
   (C)   Every landlord shall be jointly and severally liable with the occupant
for utility services. However, in no case shall a landlord be responsible for
more than three months’ utility service charges, plus reconnection fees, if
any. The landlord shall be notified of past due accounts.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.60  ANNUAL REVIEW AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall review the user charge system annually or more
frequently and revise the user charge rates as necessary to ensure that the
system generates adequate revenues to pay the costs of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, and that the system’s revenues continues to
provide for the proportional distribution of operation and maintenance,
including replacement costs among all users and user classes.
   (B)   The city will notify each user at least annually, in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the rate being charged for operation and maintenance,
including replacement, of the system.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.61  NEW SERVICE.
   (A)   All requests for new service shall be made in writing upon an
appropriate form furnished by the city to the City Clerk or his or her
designated agent. Deposits and all installation charges, if any, as shown in
Exhibit D of Ord. 12-001, shall be paid at the time of the request.
   (B)   A deposit shall be required on all new service, as shown in Exhibit D
of Ord. 12-001. Said deposit shall be held in a special account. When account
holder discontinues water service and closes account, the deposit shall be
applied to any unpaid balance on the account. Any unused deposit shall be
returned to the account holder.
   (C)   New service being established by the connection to the water system
shall have approval from the Board of Aldermen and shall be in compliance with
the ordinance or ordinances regulating the use of the public water system and
the installation and connection of water service.
   (D)   The city will be responsible for connecting to the main water line and
installing the meter pit, meter assembly, water meter, and pressure regulator.
The property owner will be responsible for the water line from the meter pit to
the structure.
   (E)   Water service to any individual property may, at the request of the
account holder to the City Clerk or his or her designated agent, be temporarily
short-term or permanently secured. The service will then be classified as a
“secured meter”. When service is restored, the reconnection fee, as shown in
Exhibit F of Ord. 12-001, will be charged. The city reserves the right, after
legal advisement, to deny service shut off in the event of civil matters when
others are residing in the residence.
   (F)   When requested to do so by the property owner, the city will cause an
adjustment to be made to the pressure regulator so as to provide a more
satisfactory service line working pressure. A fee for such service is shown in
Exhibit E of Ord. 12-001.
   (G)   When requested to do so by the property owner, the city will cause the
water stop valve to be temporarily closed. A fee for such service is shown on
Exhibit F of Ord. 12-001.
   (H)   In the event of damage to a water main during excavation, the damaging
party will be held responsible for all charges incurred by the city for the
repairs. The city will have 60 days to present all charges to the damaging
party.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
Cross reference:
   Rates, see §
50.16
§ 51.62  FINANCIAL RELIEF.
   (A)   In the event of over double the average of six months’ usage, when
requested by the affected account holder, the city will allow for financial
relief as set forth herein:
      (1)   An averaging of the previous six months’ water usage will be made
to determine an average monthly use; and
      (2)   The account holder will be charged double the six-month average
monthly usage cost.
   (B)   Financial relief shall only be allowed one time per calendar year
without Board of Aldermen approval. Any additional requests must be made to the
Board of Aldermen for consideration and approval.
(Ord. 12-001, passed 2-28-2012)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, persons, firm, association, or corporation or agent
thereof, violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.11 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.30 through
51.40, except §
51.39, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (C)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation.
   (D)   Any person violating §
51.39 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 88-58, passed 12-19-1988; Ord. 09-007, passed 10-26-2009)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER
Section
Sewer Use
   
52.001   Definitions
   
52.002   Unlawful acts
   
52.003   Connection required
   
52.004   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.005   Prohibited connections
   
52.006   Classes of building sewer permits
   
52.007   Installation/connection costs
   
52.008   Separate connections required
   
52.009   Use of old sewer connections
   
52.010   Construction materials
   
52.011   Connection elevation
   
52.012   Downspouts, drains, and the like
   
52.013   Other codes and requirements
   
52.014   Inspection
   
52.015   Protection during excavation
   
52.016   Damage to sewer works
   
52.017   Inspection
   
52.018   Sewer Commission
   
52.019   Application for service
   
52.020   Sewer line maintenance
Rates and Charges
   
52.035   Billing practice
   
52.036   Rates
   
52.037   Deposit
   
52.038   Connection fee
   
52.039   Delinquent bills
   
52.040   Charges waived for swimming pools and tanker trucks
User Charge System
   
52.055   Purpose
   
52.056   Definitions
   
52.057   Managing fund
   
52.058   Use rate structure
Prohibited Discharges
   
52.075   Storm water, surface water, and the like
   
52.076   Combined sewers
   
52.077   Specific prohibited discharges
   
52.078   Discharges prohibited by the Superintendent
   
52.079   Rejection or pretreatment
   
52.080   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.081   Manhole required
   
52.082   Testing wastes
   
52.083   Special agreements
 
   
52.999   Penalty
SEWER USE
§ 52.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMBINING SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade, or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface groundwater.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER.  A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Sewage Works and of Waterworks of the
city, or his or her authorised deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.002  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003  CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human employment,
recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided
that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.004  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.003, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications, and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10 shall be paid to the city at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
the construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made withing 48 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage
disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area
of the lot is less than 7,600 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as public sewer becomes available to a property served by
a private sewage disposal system, as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the licensed operator.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 90 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.005  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.006  CLASSES OF BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for residential
and commercial service; and one for service to establishments producing
industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the city. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and
inspection fee of $10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit, or
$15 for an industrial building sewer permit, shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.007  INSTALLATION/CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.008  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard, or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear a building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.009  USE OF OLD SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.010  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.011  CONNECTION ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.012  DOWNSPOUTS, DRAINS, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, interior and exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013  OTHER CODES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in applicable
specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.014  INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.015  PROTECTION DURING EXCAVATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.016  DAMAGE TO SEWER WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the sewage works.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent duly authorized employees of the city
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees, and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by the city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.081.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.018  SEWER COMMISSION.
   (A)   These rules and regulations have been adopted to govern the sewage
disposal services furnished by the city in a uniform manner for the benefit of
the city and its sewer system users.
   (B)   The Mayor and the Board of Aldermen shall act as ex-officio Board of
Sewer Commissioners for the management and function of the municipal sewage
system.
(Ord. 88-57, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 52.019  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for new sewer service installation must be made in writing
on a prescribed form to the City Clerk and will be submitted to the Board of
Aldermen for consideration. The Board of Aldermen shall approve or deny service
based on the ability of the city to serve the subject property with appropriate
sewage disposal.
   (B)   Upon approval by the Board of Aldermen, the cost of sewer line
connections from the consumer’s premises to the city sewer mains shall be borne
by the owner of the premises.
   (C)   A $50 charge for connecting to the city sewer main shall be paid to
the City Clerk prior to any work commencing.
(Ord. 88-57, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 52.020  SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Sewer stoppages or line breaks from the curb side on public property
to and on the customer’s property will be the responsibility of the customer/
owner, and all maintenance and repair costs will be the owner’s responsibility.
   (B)   Sewer stoppages or line breaks determined to be in the city owned
sewer lines and mains will be the responsibility of the Sewer Department, and
repair costs will be borne by the city.
(Ord. 88-57, passed 12-19-1988)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.035  BILLING PRACTICE.
   (A)   Meters serving all consumers shall be read monthly and bills for
service will be rendered monthly.
   (B)   Sewage disposal bills will be calculated on the number of thousands of
gallons of water flowing through the user’s meter, and the calculated charge
will be billed on the same monthly statement sent to all water users.
(Ord. 88-57, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 52.036  RATES.
 
Service                                 Charge
First 1,000 gallons or fraction thereof A minimum charge of $14.38
1,001 - 6,000 gallons                   $4.20 per additional 1,000 gallons
6,001 - 16,000 gallons                  $4.90 per additional 1,000 gallons
16,001 gallons and above                $5.19 per additional 1,000 gallons
Residential sewer only                  $31.14
Commercial sewer only                   $38.34
 
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 52.037  DEPOSIT.
 
Occupant                    Rate
Commercial owners           $50
Commercial renters          $125
Residential property owners $50
Residential renters         $125
 
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 52.038  CONNECTION FEE.
 
Occupant                               Rate
For residential or commercial building $150
For industrial building                $250
 
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 52.039  DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   Water and sewer customers shall be billed monthly.
   (B)   Billings shall be sent to customers no later than the fifth of the
month.
   (C)   Payments are due when billings are made and shall be considered
delinquent if not paid by the fifteenth day of the month of the billing.
   (D)   Service to customers whose bills remain unpaid by the twenty-second of
the month of the billing, shall be shut-off unless other arrangements are made
with the City Clerk.
   (E)   A late penalty of 10% will be added to each delinquent bill and after
each 30 days the bill remains unpaid.
(Ord. 09-002, passed 6-2-2009)
§ 52.040  CHARGES WAIVED FOR SWIMMING POOLS AND TANKER TRUCKS.
   (A)   Owners of large swimming pools shall register with the Water
Department of the city size and gallons required to fill pools, and one time
each year the Water Department shall charge only for water used and waive the
sewer charge on the gallons used to fill pools.
   (B)   Owners of pumper or tanker trucks that do not put effluent into the
sewer, any business filling a tanker or pumper truck with water which is then
hauled to a work site, a representative of the company shall report to the
Water Department the gallons required to fill the tanker and the number of
trucks filled each month, so the sewer charge may be waived for that amount of
water.
(Ord. 93-013, passed 11-23-1993)
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 52.055  PURPOSE.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city
to collect rates, fees, and charges for the use of and services provided by the
system. The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose of
operating and maintaining the system, including replacement of the system.
(Ord. 91-001, passed 1-15-1991)
§ 52.056  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days 20°C, expressed by milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR.  Any contributor to or user of the system whose
lot, parcel, or real estate or building is served by a water meter larger than
three-fourths of an inch.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 240 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 240
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  All expenditures during the useful life of the
system for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are necessary for
managing and maintaining the system to achieve the capacity and performance for
which the system was designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
system to maintain the capacity and performance for which the system was
designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR.  Any contributor to or user of the system whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is served by a three-fourths inch water
meter or less.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM.  The sewerage system of the city, consisting of all properties and
assets, real and personal, and tangible and intangible of the city, now or
hereafter existing, which are held or used for the purpose of collecting and
treating sewage including, but not limited to, the city’s treatment facilities
and all collection lines and equipment connected therewith.
   SYSTEM REVENUES.  All income and revenues derived by the city from the
operation of the system.
   TREATMENT FACILITIES.  Part of the system consisting of any devices and
systems for the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal
sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid industrial wastes. These include
intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, individual
systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances;
extensions improvement, remodeling, additions and alteration thereof; elements
essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as standby treatment units
and clear well facilities; and any works, including site acquisition of the
land that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is used for
ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment (including land for
composting sludge, temporary storage of such compost, and land used for the
storage of treated wastewater in land treatment systems before land
application; or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste or industrial
waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer systems.
(Ord. 91-001, passed 1-15-1991)
§ 52.057  MANAGING FUND.
   (A)   The user charges shall be collected and disbursed as provided by this
section.
   (B)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual system revenues
to pay costs of operating and maintenance, including replacement, which the
city may by ordinances designate or have designated to be paid by the user
charge system.
   (C)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is to be for
operation, maintenance, and replacement shall be deposited in two separate non-
lapsing funds and accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the system
(operation and maintenance amount); and
      (2)   After making the deposits in an account designated for the specific
purpose of ensuring replacement needs over the useful life of the system
(replacement account). Deposits in the replacement account shall be made
monthly in the amount of $277.83 each month.
   (D)   Fiscal year-end balances in the operation and maintenance account and
the replacement account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purpose than those
designated for these accounts. Moneys which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the operation and maintenance account
and the replacement account shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation and maintenance
and for replacement.
(Ord. 91-001, passed 1-15-1991)
§ 52.058  USE RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   This section will set the rates to be charged to users for the
collection and treatment of sewage. Each user shall pay for the sewage
collection and treatment services provided by the city based on his or her use
of the system as determined by water meters acceptable to the city.
   (B)   (1)   For residential contributors, monthly user charges for the
collection and treatment of sewage will be based on monthly water usage.
      (2)   For residential and commercial contributors, user charges for the
collection and treatment of sewage shall be based on water used during the
current month. If a commercial or industrial contributor has a consumptive user
of water, or in some other manner uses water which is not returned to the
wastewater collection system, the user charge for that contributor may be based
on a wastewater meter or separate water meters installed and maintained at the
city contributor’s expense and in a manner acceptable to the city.
   (C)   The minimum charge per month for the collection and treatment of
sewage shall be $7.07 for the first 1,000 gallons for residential contributors
and $7.07; for the first 1,000 gallons for other than residential contributors.
In addition, each contributor shall pay a user charge rate of $2.91 per 1,000
gallons of water (or wastewater) above the minimum as determined in the
preceding section.
   (D)   (1)   For those contributors who contribute wastewater, the strength
of which is greater than normal domestic sewage, a surcharge in addition to
normal user charges will be collected.
      (2)   The surcharge is:
         (a)   $0.55 per pound BOD; and
         (b)   $0.41 per pound SS.
   (E)   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which cause an increase
in the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge from the city’s system, or
any water user which discharges any substances which singly or by interaction
with other substances which singly or by interaction with other substances
causes identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance, or
replacement of the system, shall pay for such increased costs. The charge to
each such user shall be as determined by the treatment plant operator and
approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (F)   The user charge rates established in this section apply to all users,
regardless of their location, of the city’s system.
(Ord. 91-001, passed 1-15-1991)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES
§ 52.075  STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, including interior and
exterior foundation drains, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.076  COMBINED SEWERS.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.077  SPECIFIC PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or creates any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground
by garbage grinders; or
   (E)   Any waters or wastes having a five-day BOD greater than 300 parts per
million by weight, or containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids, or having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
average sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review of the
Superintendent. Where necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 240 parts per million by
weight, or reduce the suspended solids to 240 parts per million by weight, or
control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or wastes. Plans,
specifications, and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
Superintendent, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approvals are obtained in writing.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.078  DISCHARGES PROHIBITED BY THE SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent, that such wastes can harm either sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewer, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C) ;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified on not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances: or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material receives in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of state, federal, or other public
agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.079  REJECTION OR PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or posses
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.078, and which in the judgement of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage recesses, equipment, or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life to constitute a public nuisance, the
Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
52.083.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.080  GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand, or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.081  MANHOLE REQUIRED.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.082  TESTING WASTES.
   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect or constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.083  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in §§
52.075 through
52.082 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.001 through
52.017 or §§
52.075 through
52.083, except §
52.016, shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for division (A)(1) above, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each 24-hour period in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person violating §
52.016 shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance §§
52.005 through
52.058 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation.
   (D)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to tamper or destroy any
portion of the system or to make any connection without written permission from
the City Clerk, or to reconnect service when service has been disconnected for
non-payment of bill. Upon conviction, there shall be imposed a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 91-001, passed 1-15-1991; Ord. 91-006, passed 7-19-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   ADMINISTRATION
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   Lights required
   
70.03   Child restraint devices
   
70.04   Seatbelts and child restraint devices
   
70.05   Electronic devices
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The city’s Traffic Code, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out at length in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 99-012, passed 11-16-1999)
§ 70.02  LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   Lighted lamps are required at any time from a half-hour after sunset to a
half-hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is not sufficient
light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet ahead. Lighted lamps shall also be required any time the
weather conditions require usage of the motor vehicle’s windshield wipers to
operate the vehicle in a careful and prudent manner as defined in §
70.99(B). The provisions of this section shall be interpreted to require
lighted lamps during periods of fog even if usage of the windshield wipers is
not necessary to operate the vehicle in a careful and prudent manner.
(Ord. 05-002, passed 3-15-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHILD BOOSTER SEAT.  A seating system which meets the Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213, as amended, that is
designed to elevate a child to properly sit in a federally approved safety belt
system.
      CHILD PASSENGER RESTRAINT SYSTEM.  A seating system which meets the
Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. § 571.213, as
amended, and which is either permanently affixed to a motor vehicle or is
affixed to such vehicle by a safety belt or a universal attachment system.
      DRIVER.  A person who is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Every driver transporting a child under the age of 16 years shall be
responsible, when transporting such child in a motor vehicle operated by that
driver on the streets or highways of this state, for providing for the
protection of such child as follows:
      (1)   Children less than four years of age, regardless of weight, shall
be secured in a child passenger restraint system appropriate for that child;
      (2)   Children weighing less than 40 pounds, regardless of age, shall be
secured in a child passenger restraint system appropriate for that child;
      (3)   Children at least four years of age but less than eight years of
age, and children weighing at least 40 but less than 80 pounds, and children
less than four feet-nine inches tall, shall be secured in a child passenger
restraint system or booster seat appropriate for that child;
      (4)   Children at least 80 pounds or children more than four feet-nine
inches in height shall be secured by a vehicle safety belt or booster seat
appropriate for that child;
      (5)   A child who otherwise would be required to be secured in a booster
seat may be transported in the back seat of a motor vehicle while wearing only
a lap belt if the back seat of the motor vehicle is not equipped with a
combination lap and shoulder belt for booster seat installation; and
      (6)   When transporting children in the immediate family when there are
more children than there are seating positions in the enclosed area of a motor
vehicle, the children who are not able to be restrained by a child safety
restraint device appropriate for the child shall sit in the area behind the
front seat of the motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle is designed only for a
front seat area. The driver transporting children under this scenario shall not
be in violation of the child seat restriction law.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any public carrier
for hire. The provisions of this section shall not apply to students four years
of age or older who are passengers on a school bus, as defined in RSMo. §
301.010.
(Ord. 06-007, passed 9-5-2006)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  SEATBELTS AND CHILD RESTRAINT DEVICES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, each driver and front
seat passenger of a passenger car manufactured after January 1, 1968, operated
on a street or highway in this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened
safety belt that meets Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards set forth in 49
C.F.R. §§ 209 through 210, except that a child less than four years of age
shall be protected as required in division (C)(4) below.
   (B)   Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child four years of age
or properly adjusted and fastened safety belt.
   (C)   With respect to divisions (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   No person shall be stopped, inspected, or detained solely to
determine compliance with division (A) above.
      (2)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above shall not be
applicable to persons who have a medical reason for failing to have a seat belt
fastened about his or her body or to any person employed by the United States
Postal Service while performing duties for that federal agency with requires
the operator to service postal boxes from their vehicles, or which require
frequent entry into and exit from their vehicles.
      (3)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) above, PASSENGER CAR means every
motor vehicle designed for carrying ten persons or less and used for the
transportation of persons, except that, the term shall not include motorcycles,
motorized bicycles, motor tricycles, and trucks with a gross weight of 12,000
pounds or more.
      (4)   Every person transporting a child under the age of four years on
the streets or highways of this city shall be responsible for transporting such
child in a child passenger restraint system approved by the state’s Department
of Public Safety.
(Ord. 97-005, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 70.05  ELECTRONIC DEVICES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person 21 years of
age or younger operating a moving motor vehicle upon the highways of this state
shall, by means of a hand-held electronic wireless communications device, send,
read, or write a text message or electronic message.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall operate
a commercial motor vehicle while using a hand-held mobile telephone.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall operate
a commercial motor vehicle while using a wireless communications device to
send, read, or write a text message or electronic message.
   (D)   The provisions of divisions (A) through (C) of this section shall not
apply to a person operating:
      (1)   An authorized emergency vehicle; or
      (2)   A moving motor vehicle while using a handheld electronic wireless
communications device to:
         (a)   Report illegal activity;
         (b)   Summon medical or other emergency help;
         (c)   Prevent injury to a person or property; or
         (d)   Relay information between a transit or for-hire operator and
that operator’s dispatcher, in which the device is permanently affixed to the
vehicle.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed or interpreted as
prohibiting a person from making or taking part in a telephone call by means of
a hand-held electronic wireless communications device while operating a
noncommercial motor vehicle upon the highways of this state.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ELECTRONIC MESSAGE.  A self-contained piece of digital communication that
is designed or intended to be transmitted between handheld electronic wireless
communication devices. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE includes, but is not limited to,
electronic mail, a text message, an instant message, or a command or request to
access an internet site.
      HAND-HELD ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Any hand- held
cellular phone, palm pilot, Blackberry, or other mobile electronic device used
to communicate verbally or by text or electronic messaging, but shall not apply
to any device that is permanently embedded into the architecture and design of
the motor vehicle.
      MAKING OR TAKING PART IN A TELEPHONE CALL.  Listening to or engaging in
verbal communication through a hand-held electronic wireless communication
device.
      SEND, READ, OR WRITE A TEXT MESSAGE OR ELECTRONIC MESSAGE.  Using a hand-
held electronic wireless telecommunications device to manually communicate with
any person by using an electronic message. Sending, reading, or writing a text
message or electronic message does not include reading, selecting, or entering
a phone number or name into a hand-held electronic wireless communications
device for the purpose of making a telephone call.
   (G)   A violation of this section shall be deemed an infraction and shall be
deemed a moving violation for purposes of point assessment under RSMo. §
302.302.
   (H)   The state preempts the field of regulating the use of hand-held
electronic wireless communications devices in motor vehicles, and the
provisions of this section shall supersede any local laws, ordinances, orders,
rules, or regulations enacted by a county, municipality, or other political
subdivision to regulate the use of hand-held electronic wireless communication
devices by the operator of a motor vehicle.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle that is lawfully parked or stopped;
      (2)   Any of the following while in the performance of their official
duties: a law enforcement officer, a member of a fire department, or the
operator of a public or private ambulance;
      (3)   The use of factory-installed or aftermarket global positioning
systems (GPS) or wireless communications devices used to transmit or receive
data as part of a digital dispatch system;
      (4)   The use of voice-operated technology; and
      (5)   The use of two-way radio transmitters or receivers by a licensee of
the Federal Communications Commission in the Amateur Radio Service.
(Ord. 18-001, passed 9-6-2018)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
70.02, or any other provision of law, violation of this section shall be deemed
an infraction and any person who violates this section as it relates to
violations of the usage of lighted lamps required due to weather conditions or
fog shall only be fined $10 and no court cost shall be assessed.
   (C)   Any driver who violates §
70.03 division (B)(1) through (B)(3) is guilty of an infraction and, upon
conviction, may be punished by a fine of not more than $50 and court costs. If
a driver receives a citation for violating §
70.03(B)(1) through (B)(3), the charges shall be dismissed or withdrawn if the
driver prior to or at his or her hearing provides evidence of acquisition of a
child passenger restraint system or child booster seat which is satisfactory to
the court or the party responsible for prosecuting the driver’s citation.
   (D)   (1)   Each driver who violates the provisions of §
70.04(A) and (B) shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not to exceed $10
in amount. All other provisions of law and court rules to the contrary
notwithstanding, no court costs may be imposed if court costs have been
assessed on any other charge arising out of the same occurrence.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
70.04(C)(4) shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $25
and court costs.
(Ord. 97-005, passed 10-21-1997; Ord. 05-002, passed 3-15-2005; Ord. 06-007,
passed 9-5-2006)
CHAPTER 71:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
71.01   Traffic Division
   
71.02   City Traffic Engineer
   
71.03   Traffic Commission
   
71.04   Removal of vehicles
   
71.05   Judges to hear cases
   
71.06   Traffic Violations Bureau
§ 71.01  TRAFFIC DIVISION.
   The Traffic Division established by § 300.015 of the model traffic
ordinance, adopted by reference in §
70.01, shall be coextensive with the city’s Police Department. Each officer of
the Police Department shall have the duties and responsibilities of an officer
of the Traffic Division. The Chief of Police shall be the officer in charge of
the Traffic Division.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 71.02  CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   The office of City Traffic Engineer, adopted by reference, shall be held by
an officer of the city appointed by the Board of Aldermen, said officer shall
not receive additional compensation by reason of his or her holding the office
of City Traffic Engineer.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 71.03  TRAFFIC COMMISSION.
   The Traffic Commission established by § 300.070(1) of the model traffic
ordinance, adopted by reference in §
70.01, shall be amended to read as follows: “There may be established a Traffic
Commission which shall be the Police Committee of the Board of Aldermen to
serve without compensation and such number of other city officers and
representatives of unofficial bodies as may be determined and appointed by the
Mayor. The Chairperson of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall be removed by him or her.”
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 71.04  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Section 300.595 of the model traffic ordinance, adopted by reference in §
70.01, shall be amended to add thereto a subsection for which shall read as
follows: “The actual cost of removing and the cost of storing at the rate of $1
per day, of any vehicle as specified herein shall be taxed as costs to any
owner who claims said vehicle and said costs shall be paid by such owner before
the vehicle shall be returned to owner.”
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 71.05  JUDGES TO HEAR CASES.
   Municipal ordinance violation cases shall be heard and determined by
associate Circuit Judges as provided by RSMo. § 479.040.
(Ord. 88-23, passed 5-16-1988)
§ 71.06  TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   The city hereby requests the establishment of a Traffic Violations
Bureau as provided in RSMo. § 479.050.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of RSMo. § 479.260(6), the schedule of
court costs, as amended, is adopted by reference.
   (C)   (1)   The position of the Traffic Violations Bureau Clerk is hereby
established and shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor. The said Clerk
shall perform the responsibilities imposed by or pursuant to RSMo. § 479.050,
with respect to the Traffic Violations Bureau, including:
         (a)   Collect fines and costs which are assessed in the Traffic
Violations Bureau; and
         (b)   Remit to the proper official fines and costs which are collected
within the time and in the amount provided by statute, court rule, or
ordinance.
      (2)   The salary of the Traffic Violations Bureau Clerk shall be
established by the Mayor within the budget and appropriations which are
established and made by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 88-23, passed 5-16-1988)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Licensing
   
72.01   License required
   
72.02   Operator and commercial driver’s licenses
   
72.03   Exempted from license
   
72.04   Other plates prohibited
   
72.05   Information displayed on commercial vehicles
   
72.06   Removal or defacing manufacturer’s numbers
   
72.07   Prohibited use of license
   
72.08   Unlicensed operator
Equipment
   
72.20   Pneumatic tires required
   
72.21   Cleats, spikes, and the like
   
72.22   Securing load
   
72.23   Fenders and mud flaps
   
72.24   When lights are required
   
72.25   Dimming of lights
   
72.26   Other equipment
Prohibited Conduct
   
72.40   Speed regulations
   
72.41   Yielding to emergency vehicles
   
72.42   Passengers in truck beds
   
72.43   Speeding and signage
   
72.44   Right-of-way at intersection
   
72.45   Following distance
   
72.46   Driving too slowly
   
72.47   Drive on right
   
72.48   Overtaking and passing
   
72.49   Rounding curves
   
72.50   Entering highway from private property
   
72.51   Turning at intersections
   
72.52   Hand and mechanical signals
   
72.53   Careless and reckless driving
   
72.54   Passing school buses
   
72.55   Entering limited access roadway
   
72.56   Driving on divided highways
   
72.57   Duty of drivers, generally
   
72.58   Motorcycles
   
72.59   Children forbidden to operate motor vehicle
 
   
72.99   Penalty
LICENSING
§ 72.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be operated on any city street of this
city unless it shall have displayed thereon the license plate or set of license
plates issued by the Director of Revenue of the state or the corresponding
authority from any other state. Each plate shall be securely fastened to the
motor vehicle in a manner so that all parts thereof shall be plainly visible
and reasonably clean so that the reflective qualities thereof are not impaired.
License plates shall be fastened to all motor vehicles except trucks, tractors,
truck tractors, or truck tractors licensed in excess of 12,000, on the front
and rear of such vehicles not less than eight nor more than 48 inches above the
ground, with the letters and numbers thereon right-side up. The license plates
on trucks, tractors, truck tractors, or truck tractors licensed in excess of
12,000 pounds shall be displayed on the front of such vehicles not less than
eight nor more than 48 inches above the ground, with the letters and numbers
thereon right side up. The license plate or plates when properly attached shall
be prima facie evidence that the required fees have been paid.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02  OPERATOR AND COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except those especially exempted by §
72.03 herein to:
   (A)   Operate, as a commercial driver, any motor vehicle upon any street in
this city unless he or she has a valid license as a chauffeur under the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 302;
   (B)   Operate, other than a commercial driver, any motor vehicle except farm
tractor upon any street of this city unless he or she has a valid license as an
operator under the provisions of RSMo. Chapter 302. Any person holding a valid
commercial driver’s license shall not be required to procure an operator’s
license;
   (C)   Operate a motorcycle or other self-propelled two- or three-wheeled
vehicle upon any highway of this state unless such person has a valid
operator’s license or commercial driver’s license which shows that he or she
has successfully passed an examination for the operation of a motorcycle as
described by the Director of Revenue for the state; or
   (D)   Authorize or knowingly permit a motorcycle or other two- or three-
wheeled self-propelled vehicle owned by him or her under his or her control to
be driven upon any highway by any person whose operator’s or commercial
driver’s license does not indicate that the person has passed an examination
for the operation of a motorcycle or has been issued instructions to permit
therefor.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.03  EXEMPTED FROM LICENSE.
   The following persons are exempted from license herein:
   (A)   Any person while driving or operating any road machine, farm tractor,
or implement of husbandry, temporarily operated or moved on a highway;
   (B)   A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and has in his or her
immediate possession a valid operator’s license issued to him or her in his or
her home state or country may operate a motor vehicle in this city only as an
operator; and
   (C)   A nonresident who is at least 18 years of age and has in his or her
immediate possession a valid commercial driver’s license issued to him or her
in his or her home state or country may operate a motor vehicle in this city
either as an operator or commercial driver.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.04  OTHER PLATES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or trailer on which there is
displayed on the front or rear thereof any other plate or tag, or placard
bearing any number except the plate furnished by the Director of Revenue or the
placard herein authorized, nor shall there be displayed on any motor vehicle or
trailer a placard, sign, or tag bearing the words “license lost”, “license
applied for”, or words of similar import as a substitute for such number plates
or such placard.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.05  INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   All commercial motor vehicles shall display in a conspicuous place:
   (A)   The name of the owner;
   (B)   The address from which such motor vehicle is operated or the
identification number, if any, issued to a motor carrier by the U.S. Department
of Transportation;
   (C)   The gross weight for which said vehicle is licensed; and
   (D)   Local commercial vehicle in addition shall display in a conspicuous
place the word “local”.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.06  REMOVAL OR DEFACING MANUFACTURER’S NUMBERS.
   Any person who removes, covers, alters, or defaces, or causes to be
destroyed, removed, covered, altered, or defaced, the manufacturer’s number,
the motor number, or other distinguishing number on any motor vehicle, or
number or other distinguishing number on any motor vehicle tire, the property
of another, for any reason, shall be deemed guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  PROHIBITED USE OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Display or to permit to be displayed, or to have in his or her
possession, any commercial driver’s license or motor vehicle operator’s license
knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been cancelled, suspended,
revoked, or altered, to lend to or knowingly permit the use of by another any
commercial driver’s license or motor vehicle operator’s license issued to the
person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
   (B)   Display or to represent as one’s own any commercial driver’s license
or motor vehicle operator’s license not issued to the person so displaying the
same, or fail or refuse to surrender to the clerk of any circuit, criminal,
magistrate, or municipal court, or the director, any commercial driver’s
license or motor vehicle operator’s license which has been suspended,
cancelled, or revoked, as provided by law;
   (C)   Use a false or fictitious name or give a false or fictitious address
in any application for a commercial driver’s license or a motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any renewal or duplicate thereof, or knowingly to make a
false statement, or knowingly to conceal a material fact, or otherwise commit a
fraud in any such application;
   (D)   Authorize or consent to any motor vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control to be driven by any person, when he or she has knowledge
that such person has no legal right to do so, or for any such person to drive
any vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   Employ as a commercial driver of a motor vehicle with knowledge that
such person has not complied with the provisions of this chapter, or whose
license as a chauffeur has been revoked, suspended, during the period of such
suspension; or
   (F)   Fail to produce his or her license upon demand of any person or
persons authorized to make such demands.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  UNLICENSED OPERATOR.
   No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him
or her or under his or her control to be driven upon any highway by any person
who is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any of the provisions of
RSMo. §§ 302.010 through 302.347.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 302.010 - 302.260 and §§ 302.400 - 302.426
EQUIPMENT
§ 72.20  PNEUMATIC TIRES REQUIRED.
   Every vehicle or truck used for moving or hauling freight or any goods or
wares or materials on the streets of the city shall, while so being used, have
and be provided with pneumatic tires suitable to carry the load without doing
injury or damage to the surface of the street.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.21  CLEATS, SPIKES, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, drive, or operate, or cause to
be moved, driven, or operated over and along any of the streets or avenues of
the city any wagon, truck, or motor vehicle of any sort provided with metal or
wooden cogs, cleats, or ridges on the wheels or tires thereof, which are
intended to prevent the skidding or slipping of such wheels, or any sort of
cogs, cleats, or ridges on the tires or wheels thereof which in any way mark,
break, or mar the surface of such paved streets; or motor vehicle running on
the rim without rubber tires. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
the use of tire chains or reasonable proportions upon any vehicle when required
for safety because of snow, ice, or other conditions tending to cause a vehicle
to skid, nor shall it apply to standard safety studded tires.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22  SECURING LOAD.
   All motor vehicles and every trailer and semi-trailer operating upon the
public highways of this state and carrying goods or materials or farm products
which may reasonably be expected to become dislodged and fall from the vehicle,
trailer, or semi-trailer as a result of wind pressure or air pressure and/or by
the movement of the vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer shall have a protective
covering or be sufficiently secured so that no portion of such goods or
material can become dislodged and fall from the vehicle, trailer, or semi-
trailer while being transported or carried.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.23  FENDERS AND MUD FLAPS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate upon the public
highways of this state a truck or truck tractor trailer, without rear fenders,
which is not equipped with mud-flaps for the rear wheels. If mud-flaps are
used, they shall be wide enough to cover the full tread width of the tire or
tires being protected; shall be so installed so that they extend from the
underside of the vehicle body in a vertical plane behind the rear wheels to
within eight inches of the ground; and shall be constructed of a rigid material
or a flexible material which is of a sufficiently rigid character to provide
adequate protection when the vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   No provisions of this section shall apply to a motor vehicle in
transit and in process of delivery equipped with temporary mud-flaps.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.24  WHEN LIGHTS ARE REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive, move, park, or be in custody of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any street or highway 30 minutes before dusk and
during all periods of inclement weather including rain, fog, snow, etc., unless
such vehicle or combination of vehicles displays lighted lamps and illuminating
devices as this section requires. No person shall use on any vehicle any
approved electric lamp or similar device unless the light source of such lamp
or devices complies with the conditions of approval as to focus and rated
candlepower.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.25  DIMMING OF LIGHTS.
   Every person driving a motor vehicle equipped with multiple beam road
lighting equipment, during the times when lighted lamps are required, as set
forth in §
72.24, shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high
enough and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe
distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements and
limitations. Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle
within 500 feet, or is within 300 feet to the rear of another vehicle traveling
in the same direction, the driver shall use a distribution of light or
composite beam so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of the other driver, and in no case shall the high intensity portion which is
projected to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the
vehicle be aimed higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a
distance of 25 feet ahead, and in no case higher than a level of 42 inches
above the level upon which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.26  OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Signaling devices. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a horn,
directed forward, in good working order, capable of emitting a sound adequate
in quantity and volume to give warning of the approach of such vehicle to other
users of the highway and to pedestrians. Such a signaling device shall be used
for warning purposes only and shall not be used for making any unnecessary
noise, and no other sound producing signaling shall be used.
   (B)   Mufflers. Muffler cut-outs shall not be used and no vehicle shall be
driven in such manner or condition that the excessive and unnecessary noise
shall be made by its machinery, motor, signaling devices, or other parts, or by
any improperly loaded cargo. The motors of all motor vehicles shall be fitted
with properly attached mufflers of such capacity or construction as to quiet
the maximum possible exhaust noise as completely as is done in modern gas
engine passenger motor vehicles. Any cut-out or opening in the exhaust pipe
between the motor and the muffler on any motor vehicle shall be completely
closed and disconnected from its operating level, and shall be so arranged that
it cannot automatically open, or be opened or operated while such vehicle is in
motion.
   (C)   Brakes. All motor vehicles, except motorcycles, shall be provided at
all times with two sets of adequate brakes, kept in good working order, and
motorcycles shall be provided with one set of adequate brakes in good working
order.
   (D)   Mirrors. All motor vehicles which are so constructed or loaded that
the operator cannot see the road behind such vehicle by looking back or around
the side of such vehicle, shall be equipped with a mirror so adjusted as to
reveal the road behind and be visible from the operator’s seat.
   (E)   Projections on vehicles. All vehicles carrying poles or other objects,
which project more than five feet from the rear of such vehicle, shall, during
the period when lights are required by this chapter, carry a red light at or
near the rear end of the pole or other object so projecting. At other times a
red flag or cloth, not less than 16 inches square, shall be displayed at the
end of such projections.
   (F)   Towlines. When one vehicle is being towed by another, they shall be
coupled by a line so that the two vehicles will be separated by not more than
15 feet and there shall be displayed on the towline a white cloth or paper so
that the same will be clearly visible to other users of the highway. During the
time lights are required by this chapter, the required lights shall be
displayed by both vehicles.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 72.40  SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within the city, except that the city may, by
ordinance, declare and determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified
streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any person
to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are
in place giving notice thereof.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any ordinance of the city regulating the speed of
vehicles on any street or highway within the city, all state traffic signs,
laws, or regulations designating or regulating the speed of vehicles within
construction zones shall be applicable upon any street or highway within the
city.
(Ord. 15-002, passed 2-5-2015)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.41  YIELDING TO EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to fail to yield right-of-way by changing
lanes, proceeding with caution, and reducing vehicle speed when approaching a
stationary emergency vehicle displaying lighted red/blue and/or amber lights.
(Ord. 03-001, passed 2-4-2003)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.42  PASSENGERS IN TRUCK BEDS.
   (A)   No person shall operate any truck, as defined in RSMo. § 301.010, with
a licensed gross weight of less than 12,000 pounds when such truck is operated
within the corporate limits of this city when any person under 18 years of age
is riding in the enclosed bed of such truck.
   (B)   No person under 18 years of age shall ride in the unenclosed bed of
such truck when the truck is in operation. The provisions of this section shall
not apply to:
      (1)   An employee engaged in the necessary discharge of the employee’s
duties where it is necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (2)   Any person while engaged in agricultural activities where it is
necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (3)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck while such truck
is being operated in a parade, caravan, or exhibition which is authorized by
law;
      (4)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck
has installed a means of preventing such person from being discharged or such
person is secured to the truck in a manner which will prevent the person from
being thrown, falling, or jumping from the truck;
      (5)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck, if such truck
is being operated solely for the purposes of participating in a special event
and it is necessary that the person ride in such unenclosed bed due to a lack
of available seating. SPECIAL EVENT, for the purposes of this section, is a
specific social activity of a definable duration which is participated in by
the person riding in the unenclosed bed;
      (6)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed if such truck is being
operated solely for the purposes of providing assistance to, or ensuring the
safety of, other persons engaged in a recreational activity; or
      (7)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
the only legally titled, licensed, and insured vehicle owned by the family of
the person riding in the unenclosed bed and there is insufficient room in the
passenger cab of the truck to accommodate all passengers in such truck. For the
purposes of this division, the term FAMILY shall mean any persons related
within the first degree of consanguinity.
(Ord. 97-005, passed 10-21-1997)
§ 72.43  SPEEDING AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Every person operating a vehicle on the highways, streets, or alleys
of this municipality shall exercise the highest degree of care under the
conditions then and there existing.
   (B)   The speed limitations duly posted in speed limit zones, or otherwise
shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles when responding to emergency
calls and the drivers thereof have flashing light in operation or audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This provision shall not relieve the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the highways, streets, or alleys,
nor shall it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a
reckless disregard of the person, property, life and limb of others. Legally
authorized emergency vehicles operating in and through this municipality shall
be only those stipulated and defined by law under RSMo. § 304.022.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a zone in which maximum speed at which a vehicle may be
driven shall have been prescribed by ordinance, the officer of the city, acting
as City Traffic Engineer shall cause appropriate signs to be placed in
conspicuous positions on the street or part thereof embraced by such zone.
Every such sign shall show maximum speed in letters and numerals against a
contrasting background, and each of the numerals shall be at least five inches
high. Such signs shall be placed at such intervals from the beginning to the
end of the zone as to be reasonably sufficient to inform drivers of vehicles of
the speed limit. An appropriate sign calling a driver’s attention to the fact
that he or she is approaching a limited speed zone may be placed in an
appropriate place or places. Nothing in this subsection shall be so construed
as to prevent the enforcement of speed limitations prescribed for specified
general districts of the city, whether or not maximum speed signs are placed or
maintained in such districts.
      (2)   The maximum speed limit on that portion of State Route Y within the
corporate limits of the city is hereby reduced to 40 mph.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 88-27, passed 12-19-1988)
§ 72.44  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway; provided, however, there is no form of traffic control at such
intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the driver of the vehicle on the right. This division (B)
shall not apply to vehicles approaching each other from opposite directions
when the driver of one of such vehicles is attempting to or is making a left
turn.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (D)   The State Highways and Transportation Commission, with reference to
state highways and local authorities, with reference to other highways under
its jurisdiction, may designate through highways and erect stop signs or yield
signs at specified entrances thereto, or may designate any intersection as a
stop intersection or as a yield intersection and erect stop signs or yield
signs at one or more entrances to such intersection.
   (E)   Preferential right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
signs or yield signs as authorized in this section:
      (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection,
indicated by a stop sign, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic in the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on the highway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such driver is moving across or within the intersection;
and
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to the sign, slow down to a speed reasonable to the existing
conditions and, if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
After slowing or stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such traffic is moving across or
within the intersection.
   (F)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an
alley, building, or any private road or driveway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles approaching on the highway to be entered.
   (G)   The driver of a vehicle intending to make a left turn into an alley,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction when the making of such left turn would
create a traffic hazard.
   (H)   The State Highways and Transportation Commission or local authorities,
with respect to roads under its respective jurisdictions, on any section where
construction or major maintenance operations are being effected, may fix a
speed limit in such areas by posting of appropriate signs, and the operation of
a motor vehicle in excess of such speed limit in the area so posted shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of careless and imprudent driving and a violation
of this section.
(Ord. 94-001, passed 2-28-1994)
§ 72.45  FOLLOWING DISTANCE.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely than
is reasonably safe and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such vehicle
and the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway. Vehicles being driven
upon any roadway outside of a business or residence district in a caravan or
motorcade, whether or not towing other vehicles, shall be so operated, except
in a funeral procession or in a duly authorized parade, so as to allow
sufficient space between each such vehicle or combination of vehicles as to
enable any other vehicle to overtake or pass such vehicles in safety. This
section shall in no manner affect RSMo. § 304.044 relating to distance between
trucks traveling on the highway.
(Ord. 94-001, passed 2-28-1994)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.46  DRIVING TOO SLOWLY.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers may
enforce the provisions of this section by directions to drivers, and in the
event of apparent willful disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply
with direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
operation by a driver is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 94-001, passed 2-28-1994)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.47  DRIVE ON RIGHT.
   All vehicles when in operation shall be kept as close to the right-hand side
of the highway as practicable.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.48  OVERTAKING AND PASSING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle going in the same
direction and desiring to pass the same shall pass to the left of the vehicle
so overtaken; provided, that the way ahead is clear of approaching traffic and,
if the way is not clear, he or she shall not pass unless the width of the
highway is sufficient to allow his or her vehicle to pass to the right of the
center thereof in the direction in which his or her vehicle is moving;
provided, further, that no driver shall pass a vehicle from the rear at the top
of a hill or on a curve where the view is in any way obscured or while the
vehicle is crossing an intersecting highway.
   (B)   Any driver overtaking and desiring to pass a vehicle shall sound his
or her signaling device and the driver of the vehicle so overtaken shall
promptly, upon such signal, turn his or her vehicle as far as reasonably
possible to the right in order to allow free passage on the left of the passing
vehicle. On highways where double lines of vehicles are possible or on highways
where vehicles are obliged to move in one direction only, when any vehicle has
slowed down or stopped, and the driver thereof has signaled for making a left-
hand turn, the drivers of vehicles following such vehicle and desiring to
proceed along such highway, or to turn to the right on an intersecting highway,
may pass such vehicle on the right thereof; provided, that the drivers of such
vehicles shall slow down and proceed cautiously.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.49  ROUNDING CURVES.
   Any driver in rounding curves shall reduce speed and shall keep his or her
vehicle as far to the right on the highway as is reasonably possible.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.50  ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No vehicle shall be driven from private property or from an alley onto a
highway, or from the side of a highway into a line of moving vehicles, unless
the highway is sufficiently free from approaching vehicles to permit such
vehicle to enter the line of moving vehicles without danger of collision, and
the driver of such a vehicle shall give warning of his or her intention to
proceed into the line of moving vehicles by sounding his or her horn and by
giving the hand and arm or mechanical signal required by this chapter for
turning to the right or to the left, as the case may be, and shall then proceed
carefully, yielding the right-of-way in case of doubt to vehicles which are
already in motion on the highway.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.51  TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   All vehicles approaching an intersection on a highway with the intention of
turning thereat shall, in turning to the right, keep to the right of the center
of such intersection and, in turning to the left, shall run beyond the center
of such intersection, passing to the right thereof, before turning such vehicle
toward the left.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.52  HAND AND MECHANICAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of or turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety, and then only after the giving of
an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein.
   (A)   An operator or driver, when stopping or when checking the speed of his
or her vehicle, if the movement of other vehicles may reasonably be affected by
such checking of speed, shall extend his or her arm at an angle below
horizontal so that the same may be seen in the rear of his or her vehicle.
   (B)   An operator or driver intending to turn his or her vehicle to the
right shall extend his or her arm at an angle above horizontal so that the same
may be seen in front of and in the rear of his vehicle, and shall slow down and
approach the intersecting highway as near as practicable to the right side of
the highway along which he or she is proceeding before turning.
   (C)   An operator or driver intending to turn his or her vehicle to the left
shall extend his or her arm in a horizontal position so that the same may be
seen in the rear of his or her vehicle, and shall slow down and approach the
intersecting highway so that the left side of his or her vehicle shall be as
near as practicable to the centerline of the highway along which he or she is
proceeding before turning.
   (D)   The signals herein given shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal light or signal device in good mechanical condition of a
type approved by the state highway patrol; however, when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals shall be given by such
light or device. A vehicle shall be considered as so constructed or loaded that
a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and rear when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab, or load exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereon exceeds 14 feet, which limit of 14 feet shall apply to single
vehicles or combinations of vehicles. The provisions of this division (D) shall
not apply to any trailer which does not interfere with a clear view of the hand
signals of the operator or of the signaling device upon the vehicle pulling
said trailer; provided further, that the provisions of this section as far as
mechanical devices on vehicles so constructed that a hand and arm signal would
not be visible both to the front and rear of such vehicle as above provided
shall only be applicable to new vehicles registered within this state after
January 1, 1954.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.53  CARELESS AND RECKLESS DRIVING.
   Whenever any driver shall recklessly and carelessly disregard by
noncompliance those provisions or regulations authorized to protect person,
property, life, and limb, such reckless and careless disregard, and
noncompliance shall be regarded as prima facie evidence of careless and
reckless driving and so punished.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.54  PASSING SCHOOL BUSES.
   Any driver of a vehicle upon any street, alley, or highway within the city,
upon meeting or overtaking from either direction any school bus, which has
stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school children or
other passengers, when the driver of such school bus has in the manner
prescribed by law given a signal to stop, shall stop such vehicle before
reaching such school bus and shall not proceed until such school bus resumes
motion or until signaled by its driver to proceed. Every such school bus
operating within the city shall comply with all rules and regulations of the
state’s Board of Education in and for the operation thereof.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.55  ENTERING LIMITED ACCESS ROADWAY.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway,
except at such entrances and exits as established by public authority.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.56  DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways leaving an
intervening space or a physical barrier or a clearly indicated section which
seeks to avoid friction between opposing movements of traffic and is so
constructed or marked, every vehicle shall be driven only upon the right-hand
roadway and no vehicle shall be driven over, across, or within any such clearly
constructed or indicated by marked dividing space, barrier, or indicated
section, except through an opening in the same or at a crossover or
intersection established by public authority.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.57  DUTY OF DRIVERS, GENERALLY.
   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk.
Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any other crossing
of the roadway to permit a pedestrian to cross such roadway, the driver of any
other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such
stopped vehicle. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section,
every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing
and child or any aged, confused, or incapacitated person or blind person with a
white cane or seeing-eye dog upon or crossing a roadway.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.58  MOTORCYCLES.
   Every person operating or riding as a passenger on any motorcycle, as
defined in RSMo. § 301.010, upon any highway of this state shall wear
protective headgear at all times the vehicle is in motion. The protective
headgear shall meet responsible standards and specifications established by the
Director of the Missouri Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 72.59  CHILDREN FORBIDDEN TO OPERATE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall cause or knowingly permit his or her child or ward under the
age of 16 years to drive a motor vehicle upon any highway when such minor is
not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any of the provisions of RSMo. §§
302.010 through 302.347.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 302.010 - 302.260 and §§ 302.400 - 302.426
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
72.01 shall be punishable by imprisonment in the county jail for up to 90 days
or by a fine of up to $500 or both fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person whose operator’s or commercial driver’s license, or driving
privilege as a nonresident, has been cancelled, suspended, or revoked as
provided in this chapter, and who drives any motor vehicle upon the streets of
this city while such license or privilege is cancelled, suspended, or revoked,
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Operation of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer in violation of
§
72.22 shall be a misdemeanor and, any person convicted thereof, shall be
punished as provided by law.
   (E)   Any person who violates §
72.23 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as
provided by law.
   (F)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
72.41, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of no more than
$500 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   (G)   Any person who operates a truck with a licensed gross weight of less
than 12,000 pounds in violation of §
72.42 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $25, plus
court costs.
   (H)   Violation of §
72.40 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $300.
   (I)   Penalties for exceeding the posted speed limit will be in accordance
with the Traffic Violations Bureau costs cited in §
71.06(B).
   (J)   Any person who shall be found guilty of operating a motor vehicle in
an intoxicated condition as provided in RSMo. § 577.010 shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500 or by
confinement of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and confinement.
   (K)   Alcohol- and drug-related traffic offense, in addition to any other
penalties and costs provided by law or ordinance, the court may order any
person convicted of an alcohol- or drug-related traffic offense to reimburse
the city for the costs associated with the arrest of such person. Such costs
shall include the reasonable cost of making the arrest, including the cost of
any chemical test made to determine the alcohol or drug content of the person’s
blood, and the costs of processing, charging, booking, and holding such person
in custody. A schedule of such costs shall be established and filed with the
Clerk of the Municipal Court, and the court may impose costs in accordance with
the schedule provided, the court may order the costs reduced in a case if the
court determines the costs are excessive.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 93-003, passed 3-16-1993; Ord. 00-007,
passed 9-5-2000; Ord. 03-001, passed 2-4-2003; Ord. 05-002, passed 3-15-2005)
CHAPTER 73:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Turning restrictions
      
II.   Through streets
      
III.   Speed limits; court costs for speeding
SCHEDULE I.  TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Vehicular traffic will be prohibited from making left turns from West
Valley Drive onto Highway 54.
   (B)   Vehicular traffic will be prohibited from making left turns from
Highway 54 onto West Valley Drive.
   (C)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movements have been
placed at the intersection of West Valley Drive and Highway 54.
   (D)   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such signs.
   (E)   Any person violating the provisions of this schedule shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of no more than $500 or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 94-004, passed 9-27-1994)
SCHEDULE II.  THROUGH STREETS.
   In accordance with provisions of § 300.225 of the model traffic ordinance
adopted by reference in §
70.01 of this code of ordinances, when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
drivers of motor vehicles shall cause said vehicles to stop at the indicated
intersections:
 
East Valley Drive and east/west exit at US Highway 54
North Lake and Valley Drive
North Locust and Valley Drive
South Lake and Valley Drive
South Locust and Valley Drive
West Valley Drive and east/west exit at US Highway 54
 
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)
SCHEDULE III.  SPEED LIMITS; COURT COSTS FOR SPEEDING.
   (A)   Speed limits.
East Valley Drive from Highway 54 to Lake Street         25 mph
Highway 54 from the east city limits to the west city    As posted by the state
limits
Locust Street from East Valley Drive to the end of       15 mph
Locust Street
Locust Street from Highway 54 to East Valley Drive       30 mph
North Lake Street from East Valley Drive to north city   25 mph
limits
North Lake Street to end of Walnut Street                15 mph
South Lake Street to East Valley Drive                   25 mph
West Valley Drive from Lake Street to Highway 54         30 mph
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, or any other engine or motor-
propelled vehicle on any street, road, or alleyway
within the city limits of the city in excess of 25 mph,  40 mph
unless signs are posted designating another speed limit,
except as follows: State Route Y from Highway 54
westbound on-ramp westward one-half mile to city limits
 
   (B)   Court costs. In addition to any fines that may be imposed by the
Municipal Judge, there shall be assessed as costs in all cases the following,
except in those cases, which are dismissed and which costs are to be paid by
the city:
      (1)   Costs of court in the amount of $12;
      (2)   Law Enforcement Training Fund surcharge of $2 as authorized
pursuant to RSMo. § 488.5336; provided, that no such surcharge shall be
collected in any proceeding when the proceeding or defendant has been dismissed
by the court or when costs are paid by the city;
      (3)   Peace Officer Standards and Training Fund surcharge in the amount
of $1 as authorized pursuant to RSMo. § 488.5336. This surcharge shall be
collected and disbursed as provided in RSMo. §§ 488.010 through 488.020, and
payable to the state’s treasury to the credit of the Peace Officer Standards
and Training Commission Fund. This surcharge shall not be assessed in cases
which are dismissed;
      (4)   Crime Victims’ Compensation Fund, as authorized pursuant to RSMo. §
595.045, in the amount of $7.50. This surcharge shall not be assessed in cases
which are dismissed;
      (5)   Other costs, such as for the issuance of a warrant, a commitment,
or a summons, as set by the Judge in criminal prosecutions;
      (6)   Actual costs assessed against the city by any law enforcement
agency for apprehension and confinement of a defendant;
      (7)   Domestic Violence Surcharge of $2, as authorized by RSMo. §
488.607. The costs collected by this section shall be collected and disbursed
for payment to shelters for battered persons pursuant to said RSMo. § 479.261.
Distribution of said funds shall be made to qualifying shelters on a monthly
basis. To qualify for receipt of city administered funds, a shelter must meet
all statutory requirements and be in good standing as a not for profit
corporation or agency. Funds shall be distributed to shelters that are located
in the same county as the city;
      (8)   Other costs, such as for issuance of a warrant, a commitment, or a
summons, or failure to appear fees for cases that fail to appear at the
appointed court date, as set by the Judge or as may be provided before the
Associate Circuit Judge in criminal prosecution. In addition to any fines that
may be imposed by the Municipal Judge, there shall be assessed $20 as failure
to appear costs in all cases that fail to appear for court on the appointed
court day; and/or
      (9)   Pursuant to RSMo. § 57.955, there shall be assessed and collected a
surcharge of $3 in all civil actions filed in the court including violation of
any city ordinance or any violation of criminal or traffic laws of this city,
including infractions, but no such surcharge shall be assessed when the costs
are waived or are to be paid by the state, county, or municipality, or when a
criminal proceeding or the defendant has been dismissed by the court. The clerk
responsible for collecting court costs in civil and criminal cases shall
collect and disburse such amounts as provided by RSMo. §§ 488.010 through
488.020. Such funds shall be payable to the Sheriffs’ Retirement Fund. Moneys
credited to the Sheriffs’ Retirement Fund shall be used only for the purposes
provided for in RSMo. §§ 57.949 through 57.997 and for no other purpose.
(Ord. 97-001, passed 4-22-1997; Ord. 01-008, passed 9-4-2001; Ord. 02–009,
passed 6-18-2002; Ord. 10-005, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 13-004, passed 6-25-2013)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   Limited parking
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Parking prohibited in certain places. No person shall stop, stand, or
park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the law of the direction of a police officer or traffic-
control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (3)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal, unless the traffic authority shall indicate a
different length by signs or markings;
      (4)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority shall indicate a different length by signs or markings;
      (5)   Within 20 feet in either direction of the driveway entrance to any
fire station, and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire
station, within 75 feet of such entrance (when properly signposted or marked);
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street or highway;
      (8)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
      (9)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking;
      (10)   Within ten feet in each direction from any mailbox used for rural
delivery;
      (11)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A),  every vehicle
stopped or parked upon any roadway or street where there are adjacent curbs
shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel
to and within 18 inches of the right-hand curb. Where curbs do not exist, such
stopping or parking shall be completed in such manner as to leave the necessary
paved travelway plus one foot on each side available as a freeway; and
      (12)   Parking within three feet of driveway or alley. It shall be
unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to park such vehicle at any time within
three feet of any public or private driveway or alley within the city.
   (B)   No parking zones. Parking is prohibited at all times in the following
locations:
      (1)   Any other street, road, or alleyway as may, from time to time, be
temporarily designated as no parking zones;
      (2)   Both sides of North Lake Street from 206 North Lake Street to end
of pavement;
      (3)   East side of North Locust Street from the first alleyway to East
Walnut Street;
      (4)   East side of South Lake Street from Valley Drive to South Locust
Street; and
      (5)   West side of West Valley Drive from 102 West Valley Drive to State
Highway 54.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 10-005, passed 7-6-2010)
SCHEDULE II.  LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   In accordance with § 300.530 of the model traffic ordinance, adopted
by reference in §
70.01, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle between the hours specified thereon on any day except Sundays and
public holidays within the district or upon any of the streets or parts of
streets.
   (B)   No vehicle of a rated capacity in excess of 20 tons shall be left
parked or left standing on any street except for the purpose of delivery or
pick-up only.
   (C)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device.
(Ord. 88-21, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FIREWORKS
      
93.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
      
95.   PARKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   License required
   
90.03   Application, issuance, and display of licenses
   
90.04   Limitation on number of animals
   
90.05   Defecation on private and public property prohibited
   
90.06   Kennels; license fees
   
90.07   Animal at large unlawful
   
90.08   Impounding
   
90.09   Offensive or noxious smell from keeping
   
90.10   Nuisance animals
   
90.11   Animal fights prohibited
   
90.12   Certain animals prohibited
   
90.13   Owner’s responsibility of a dangerous dog or animal
   
90.14   Biting animals
   
90.15   Animal neglect and abandonment
   
90.16   Animal abuse
   
90.17   Dead animals
   
90.18   Euthanizing animals
   
90.19   Management of cat population; permitted acts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  To knowingly abandon any animal without making any provisions
for its adequate care and adequate control.
   ADEQUATE CARE.  Normal and prudent attention to the needs of an animal,
including wholesome food, clean water, vaccinations, shelter, and health care
as necessary to maintain good health in a specific species of animal.
   ADEQUATE CONTROL.  To reasonably restrain or govern an animal so that the
animal does not injure itself, any person, any other animal, or property.
   ANIMAL.  Every living vertebrate except a human being.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  The Chief of Police or any individual employed by
the city or appointed by the city to enforce animal control regulations.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family or his or her agent.
   CAT.  Any member of the feline (genus felis) family.
   DOG.  Any member of the canine (genus canis) family.
   EUTHANIZE.  To put to death in a humane way.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES.  When bitten by, or fought with, or has come in close
contact with a dog or other animal shown to be infected with the rabies virus
as determined by standard laboratory testing.
   IMPOUND.  To take into custody any animal, by any means, for the purpose of
confinement.
   KENNEL.  Any premises upon which are kept more than three dogs or three cats
over the age of six months.
   LIVESTOCK ANIMALS.  Cows, horses, mules, goats, sheep, poultry, domestic
fowl, or other animals commonly associated with farming and agriculture,
excepting hogs, pigs, or other swine.
   NEGLECT.  To fail to provide adequate care and adequate control of an
animal.
   OWNER/OWNERSHIP.  In addition to its ordinary meaning, any person who
possesses, cares for, has custody of, controls, manages, keeps, or harbors an
animal. An animal shall be considered “harbored” if it is fed or sheltered for
five consecutive days or more.
   TRAP.  Any mechanical device or snare which seeks to hold, capture, or kill
an animal.
   VACCINATION REGISTRATION.  The vaccination for rabies and issuance of an
appropriate “tag” by a practicing licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners residing in the city shall procure a license from the city for
all dogs over the age of six months of age. All licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be effective from May 1 to the following April
30. The license fee shall be $4 for each male or female dog.
   (B)   Any license fee due and unpaid 30 days after it becomes due and
payable shall be subject to a penalty of $1.
   (C)   The fee for a replacement license tag shall be $1.
   (D)   No license is required for a nonresident to keep a dog within the city
for no longer than 30 days.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.03  APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, AND DISPLAY OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Written application for licenses shall be made to the city and shall
include the name and address of the owner, description of the animal, the
appropriate fee, and written proof of rabies vaccination from a duly licensed
veterinarian.
   (B)   Application for a license must be made within 30 days after obtaining
a dog over six months of age. If the dog was obtained before it was six months
of age, the application shall be made within 30 days after it becomes six
months of age.
   (C)   Any new resident of the city must register his or her dog and procure
a license tag within 30 days of occupancy.
   (D)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the city shall refuse to issue, or if issued shall revoke, the
license.
   (E)   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the city shall
issue a durable tag stamped with an identifying number. The city shall maintain
a record of all tags issued and the identifying numbers.
   (F)   Dogs must wear license tags, along with rabies tags, at all times when
off the premises of the owners.
   (G)   License tags are not transferable and no refunds shall be made on a
license fee because of leaving the city or death of dog before expiration of
the license period.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.04  LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   No residence or household in the residential zoning districts shall have
more than three animals at any time. Offspring under the age of four months
which were born to an animal shall be exempt from this section.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.05  DEFECATION ON PRIVATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or in control of any animal to
allow or permit such animal to defecate upon any private property owned by
another or public property, unless such person shall remove all feces so
deposited by such animal.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  KENNELS; LICENSE FEES.
   A kennel shall be any establishment which has more than three dogs and/or
cats. Kennels are not allowed in residential zoning districts. In other
districts, written application for a kennel license shall be made to the city
which shall include name and address of the kennel owner, construction and
dimensions, size of each kennel, the maximum number of dogs and/or cats which
may be maintained at any one time at said kennel, the disposal of waste, the
size of runs, if any, and provision for access by the Fire Department. The
kennel shall contain at least one fully enclosed shelter for each dog and/or
cat and provide an exercise area. A fee for a kennel license shall be $15 and a
fee per dog shall be assessed according to §
90.02.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.07  ANIMAL AT LARGE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog, cat, or other animal to
fail to restrain said dog, cat, or other animal from running at large at any
time within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Any animal found running at large shall be impounded. An animal
running at large is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and it shall be the
duty of the city’s Police Department or other city employee to abate the
nuisance. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to authorize the city
employee to enter into a dwelling of a person.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  IMPOUNDING.
   Nuisance animals, animals at large, abused or neglected animals, or
unlicensed animals shall be taken by an Animal Control Officer and impounded.
If by a license, tag, or other means the owner of an impounded animal can be
identified, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner by telephone or
mail. Impounded animals shall be kept for not less than five business days. Any
owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall be responsible for all reasonable
costs for the care and maintenance of the animal while in the city’s custody.
Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within five business days shall become
the property of the city and shall be disposed of in any appropriate manner.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.09  OFFENSIVE OR NOXIOUS SMELL FROM KEEPING.
   No person shall keep, allow, or permit to be kept on any premises occupied
by him or her, or under his or her charge and control, any animal in a pen or
other enclosure of any kind under such conditions that an offensive or noxious
smell or odor shall arise therefrom to the injury, annoyance, or inconvenience
of any inhabitant of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   Every owner of any animal shall exercise proper care and control of such
animal to prevent it from any of the following actions:
   (A)   Molesting passersby or chasing passing vehicles;
   (B)   Damaging public or private property, other than property of the owner;
   (C)   Allowing female animals to come into contact with another animal
except for planned breeding;
   (D)   Howling, barking, yelping, baying, or otherwise making noise which
would unreasonably disturb the peace of any person; or
   (E)   Excreting urine or feces upon any sidewalk, driveway, right-of-way, or
other public or private property unless such owner immediately and thoroughly
cleans such excrement.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  ANIMAL FIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   No person in the city shall maintain any place where animals are suffered to
fight upon exhibition or for sport or upon any wager.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Large animals. Except as provided in division (D), keeping or
maintaining hogs, goats, donkeys, mules, sheep, emu, ostrich, or any other
animal which, when fully grown would typically weigh over 30 pounds, other than
dogs and cats, within the city limits is prohibited.
   (B)   Other prohibited animals. No person shall keep or maintain rabbits,
chickens, domesticated Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs, ducks, turkeys, or other
domestic fowl within 100 feet of any residence or other dwelling place other
than that of the owner.
   (C)   Wildlife. It shall be prohibited for any person to keep or maintain
endangered species, Class I wildlife, as defined in 3 CSR 10-9230, or Class II
wildlife, as defined in 3 CSR 10-9.240, within the city limits.
   (D)   Horses and cattle. Horses and cattle may be kept or maintained within
the city limits but only on tracts of land consisting of not less than 15 acres
and not less than 400 feet from the property line of any adjoining property
containing a residence or dwelling place.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13  OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY OF A DANGEROUS DOG OR ANIMAL.
   (A)   The following actions shall be required of owners of dogs or animals
that have been declared dangerous dogs or animals.
      (1)   Any dangerous dog or animal which bites or scratches a human being,
or any dog or animal, whose behavior immediately prior to or during an incident
resulting in a human being bitten or scratched, which is determined to be
dangerous, shall be impounded for a ten-day rabies quarantine at a veterinarian
clinic.
      (2)   The owner or keeper shall notify the Police Department immediately
if a dangerous dog or animal is loose, unconfined or missing, has attacked
another animal, or has attacked a human being.
      (3)   The owner or keeper shall notify the Police Department within 24
hours if a dangerous dog or animal has died or has been sold or given away. If
the dog or animal has been sold or given away, the owner or keeper shall
provide the Police Department with the name, address, and telephone number of
the new owner; and the new owner, if the dog or animal is kept within the city
limits, must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   (a)   While on the owner’s property, a dangerous dog or animal must
be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or
structure, suitable to prevent the entry of young children and designed to
prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen or structure must have minimum
dimensions of five feet by ten feet and must have secure sides and a secure
top. If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into
the ground no less than 12 inches.
         (b)   The enclosure must also provide protection from the elements for
the dog or animal. The enclosure, when occupied by a dangerous dog or animal,
shall not be occupied by any other animal. If the dangerous dog or animal is a
female with a litter of young under three months of age, the litter of young
may occupy the same enclosure as the mother.
      (5)   No dangerous dog or animal may be kept on a porch, patio, or in any
part of a house or structure that would allow the dog or animal to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen
doors are the only obstacle preventing the dog or animal from exiting the
structure.
      (6)   The owner or keeper shall display a sign on his or her premises
that there is a dangerous dog or animal on the property. This sign shall be
visible and capable of being read from the public highway or thoroughfare from
which the property is entered. In addition, a similar sign is required to be
posted on the kennel or pen or fenced yard of such animal.
      (7)   A dangerous dog or animal may be off the owner’s premises if it is
muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six feet
in length and under the control of a responsible person. The muzzle must be
made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or animal or interfere
with its vision or respiration but must prevent it from biting any person or
animal.
      (8)   All owners or keepers of dangerous dogs or animals must, within ten
days of such declaration, provide the Police Department two color photographs,
one showing the left profile, the other showing the right profile of the animal
clearly showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
      (9)   Any dangerous dog or animal shall wear at all times a bright
fluorescent yellow collar with required tags attached so the dog or animal can
be identified as a dangerous dog or animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a dangerous dog or
animal within the city to fail to comply with requirements and conditions set
forth in this section. Anyone found to be subject of a violation of this
section may be, in addition to other penalties provided by ordinance, subject
to immediate seizure and impoundment for a minimum of ten days or the time
necessary for the owner or keeper to show compliance with this section,
whichever is shorter.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14  BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal that bites a human being shall be turned over to a licensed
veterinarian for observation as to the existence of rabies for a time
prescribed by said licensed veterinarian and under no circumstances shall the
offending animal be destroyed by anyone until such observation is complete.
Expenses of keeping the animal during observation shall be paid by the person
owning, controlling, harboring, possessing, or having the management or care of
said animal.
   (B)   No person shall destroy a biting animal without submitting it for
observation or shall refuse to deliver up to the Police Department his or her
animal when requested to do so when said Police Department shall have
reasonable grounds to believe that a person has been bitten by said animal.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.15  ANIMAL NEGLECT AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of neglect when he or she has custody or ownership
or both of an animal and fails to provide adequate care or adequate control,
which results in substantial harm to the animal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of abandonment when he or she has knowingly
abandoned an animal in any place without making provisions for its adequate
care.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
Similar provisions, RSMo. § 578.009
§ 90.16  ANIMAL ABUSE.
   A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
   (A)   Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not allowed
by or expressly exempted from the provisions of RSMo. §§ 578.005 through
578.023 and 273.030;
   (B)   Purposely or intentionally causes injury or suffering to an animal;
   (C)   Having ownership or custody of an animal, knowingly fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 578.012
§ 90.17  DEAD ANIMALS.
   All dead animals shall be removed and properly disposed of within 24 hours
of their death.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.18  EUTHANIZING ANIMALS.
   When, in the opinion of a licensed practicing veterinarian, a police
officer, or the Municipal Court Judge, any animal exhibits sickness, illness,
or injury of such severity that recovery is impossible or exhibits aggressive
behavior such that could be dangerous to the general public, the Police
Department shall cause the animal to be humanely euthanized by any means
approved by the American Veterinary Medical Association’s Panel on Euthanasia.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
§ 90.19  MANAGEMENT OF CAT POPULATION; PERMITTED ACTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMUNITY CAT.  A cat that is abandoned, stray, lost, or feral, and cared
for by a community cat caregiver pursuant to this section.
      COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER.  A person who, in accordance with and pursuant
to a policy of trap-neuter-return, provides care, including food, shelter, or
medical care, to a community cat while not being considered the owner,
harborer, controller, or keeper of a community cat.
      EAR TIPPING.  The removal of the one-fourth inch tip of a community cat’s
left ear, performed while the cat is under anesthesia, in compliance with any
applicable federal or state law, and under the supervision of a license
veterinarian, designed to identify the community cat as being sterilized and
lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
      TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN.  The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, ear tipping and returning community cats to their
original location.
   (B)   Permitted acts. The following actions shall be permitted in the city
in pursuance of a process of trap-neuter-return:
      (1)   Trapping for the sole purpose of sterilizing, vaccinating for
rabies and ear tipping community cats, in compliance with any applicable
federal or state law and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian,
where applicable;
      (2)   An ear-tipped cat received by local shelters will be returned to
the location where trapped unless veterinary care is required. A trapped, ear-
tipped cat will be released on-site unless veterinary care is required; and
      (3)   Community cat caregivers are empowered to reclaim impounded
community cats without proof of ownership solely for the purpose of the
implementation of the process of trap-neuter-return as more particularly
provided in this section.
(Ord. 17-006, passed 9-17-2017)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Owners of animals in violation of §
90.10 for the first time may pay a fine to the city in the amount of $25 within
seven days of the issuance of a citation. Owners that fail to pay such fine
within seven days and owners of animals cited for second and subsequent
violations shall be required to appear in Municipal Court for such violation(s)
and court costs shall be assessed on such cases.
   (B)   (1)   Animal neglect and abandonment is a violation upon first
conviction and for each offense, punishable by imprisonment or a fine not to
exceed $500, or both, and a violation punishable by imprisonment or a fine not
to exceed $500, or both upon the second and all subsequent convictions. All
fines and penalties for a first conviction of animal neglect or abandonment may
be waived by the Court provided that the person found guilty of animal neglect
or abandonment show that adequate, permanent remedies for the neglect or
abandonment have been made. Reasonable costs incurred for the care and
maintenance of neglected or abandoned animals may not be waived. This division
(B) shall not apply to the provisions of RSMo. § 578.007.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this division (B), the
court may order a person found guilty of animal neglect or abandonment to pay
all reasonable costs and expenses necessary for:
         (a)   The care and maintenance of neglected or abandoned animals
within the person’s custody or ownership;
         (b)   The disposal of any dead or diseased animals within the person’s
custody or ownership;
         (c)   The reduction of resulting organic debris affecting the
immediate area of the neglect or abandonment; and
         (d)   The avoidance or minimization of any public health risks created
by the neglect or abandonment of the animals.
   (C)   Unless stated otherwise in this chapter, any person violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in jail for not more
than 90 days. Each day’s violation shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 05-006, passed 10-18-2005)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Property Maintenance
   
91.01   Definition
   
91.02   Duty of maintenance of private property
   
91.03   Duty to maintain property and rights-of-way
Littering
   
91.15   Prohibited on public property
   
91.16   On private premises
Junk
   
91.30   Definitions
   
91.31   Damaged or disabled vehicles
   
91.32   Unlawful to maintain such nuisance
   
91.33   Notice
   
91.34   Proceedings when owner or custodian cannot be located
   
91.35   Duty of owner or custodian
   
91.36   Disposition
   
91.37   Notice of sale
   
91.38   Entry onto private property
 
   
91.99   Penalty
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 91.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises are located or which is otherwise a menace to the public
health, safety, or welfare. This includes, but not limited to, the keeping or
the depositing on or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
         (a)   Rubbish and trash, lumber not piled or stacked 12 inches off the
ground, rocks or bricks, metal, parts of derelict cars or trucks, broken
furniture, appliances, scrap material, machine parts, cans or containers, any
flammable material or condition which may endanger public safety, or any
material or condition which is unhealthy or unsafe; or
         (b)   Debris of any kind, weed cuttings, cut, fallen, or hazardous
trees and shrubs, and overgrown vegetation and noxious weeds which are 18
inches or more in height. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1) above, it shall not be a nuisance for
purposes of this subchapter for all grasses to grow 18 inches or more in height
if such grasses grows on a lot that is cut at least once in the spring (May
through July) and once in the fall (September through November). However, in no
case shall overgrown grasses or weeds, which are 12 inches or more in height,
be allowed within ten feet of:
         (a)   Any public or private roadway or street; or
         (b)   Any public or private improvements including buildings,
outbuildings, walls, fences, drives, or property lines.
      (3)   All grasses, that are overgrown and likely to harbor rats, vermin,
and other similar nuisances detrimental to neighboring properties, or
vegetation growing into the public right-of-way, or vegetation obstructing the
view of drivers on any public street, right-of-way or private driveways;
      (4)   The existence of any body of stagnant water or other liquid in
which mosquitoes or other insects may breed, or which may generate noxious or
offensive gases or odors. This section shall not apply to properly maintained
birdbaths, landscape ponds, fountains, or irrigation systems;
      (5)   The removal of snow from public/private premises into the public
roadways.
(Ord. 14-007, passed 8-7-2014)
§ 91.02  DUTY OF MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located.
(Ord. 14-007, passed 8-7-2014)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  DUTY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, leasing, occupying, or having
charge of any premises in the city to maintain such premises; and such person
shall not permit such premisesto be kept or maintained in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which such premises are located, nor cause, keep, or permit any nuisance
thereon.
(Ord. 14-007, passed 8-7-2014)
LITTERING
§ 91.15  PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter, dump, or throw cans, paper,
straw, sawdust, boxes, glass, metal vessels or containers, iron, clothes,
bottles, filth, offal, trash, rubbish, garbage, or other materials on public
rights-of-way, public squares, alleys, sidewalks, parks, or any of the
waterways in the city or adjoining grounds.
(Ord. 98-005, passed 4-1-1998)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16  ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any private property within the
city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person in
control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or
upon any private property owned by another.
(Ord. 98-005, passed 4-1-1998)  Penalty, see §
91.99
JUNK
§ 91.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGED OR DISABLED VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is not registered, or which
is improperly registered with the state, has been inoperable for more than 72
hours or is in such a state of disrepair to be inoperable, except those on the
premises of a duly licensed automobile repair or sales business or in a duly
licensed automobile junking yard.
   JUNK.  Any metal, glass, paper, rags, wood, machinery parts, cloth, or other
waste or discarded material of any nature or substance whatsoever, or scrap or
salvage materials.
   PROPERTY.  Any land owned by the city or located within the city limits, not
including streets and highways.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY.  The entire area between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLES.  Any machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors,
buggies and wagons, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.31  DAMAGED OR DISABLED VEHICLES.
   Any damaged or disabled vehicle, part thereof, or junk located on any
property, street, or highway which presents a hazard to children, or harbors
tall grass, weeds, or other vegetation, or creates a fire hazard, or affords a
breeding place or nesting place for mosquitoes, flies, rodents, or other
vermin; or any vehicle, part thereof, or junk allowed to remain unmoved on any
street or highway for 72 hours is a public nuisance.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.32  UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN SUCH NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain a nuisance as
defined in §
91.31.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33  NOTICE.
   Whenever a duly authorized representative of the city determines that any
vehicle or junk is a nuisance, as defined in §
91.31, the city shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of the
vehicle or junk, if same can be located, or the person in custody of such
vehicle or junk, by registered mail or by personal service. The notice shall
state that the vehicle or junk is deemed to be a nuisance within the provisions
of §
91.31, and shall briefly state facts deemed to constitute such vehicle or junk
a nuisance within the terms of this subchapter, and state that the nuisance
shall be abated within seven days from receipt of such notice.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.34  PROCEEDINGS WHEN OWNER OR CUSTODIAN CANNOT BE LOCATED.
   When the owner or custodian of any nuisance as defined in §
91.31 cannot be located by reasonable search, the notice shall be attached to
the property, briefly stating facts deemed to constitute the property a
nuisance and stating that the nuisance shall be abated within seven days of the
date notice was posted, or if the vehicle or junk is on public property, within
two days of the date notice was posted.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.35  DUTY OF OWNER OR CUSTODIAN.
   Any person receiving the notice provided for in §
91.34 shall comply with the provisions of the notice requiring abatement.
Failure to comply with this provision is unlawful.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36  DISPOSITION.
   If not removed within the times specified in the notice, the vehicle or junk
shall be transported to a storage area by or at the direction of the duly
authorized representative of the city at the expense of the owner or person in
custody thereof. It shall then be stored for a period of at least 90 days, and
the person entitled to possession thereof may redeem the property by payment to
the city of the actual cost of its removal and a reasonable storage fee. If the
vehicle or junk is unredeemed after the expiration of the 90-day period, the
city may sell it to the highest bidder or, if it has no sales value, may
otherwise dispose of said property. Any money received from disposal of any
vehicle or junk shall be applied to the expenses charged to the owner or person
in charge thereof.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.37  NOTICE OF SALE.
   (A)   Prior to the sale of any such property, the duly authorized
representative of the city shall cause to be posted in the City Hall, the place
of storage, and at least one other public place in the city, a notice of sale
stating:
      (1)   That the city is selling abandoned property;
      (2)   The color, make, year, motor number, and serial number, if
available, and any other information necessary for an accurate identification
of the property;
      (3)   The terms of the sale; and
      (4)   The date, time, and place of the sale.
   (B)   This notice shall be published not less than ten nor more than 30 days
prior to the date of the sale.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.38  ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The duly authorized representative of the city may enter upon private
property for inspection or for the purpose of removing any vehicle or junk in
accordance with this subchapter. If any person refuses to allow entry onto his
or her private property, the duly authorized representative may obtain a
warrant from the proper official and proceed in accordance therewith.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Penalties for violating §§
91.02 or
91.03.
      (1)   First offense. Any person who, having received a notice, fails to
abate the nuisance within the period provided in said notice, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for such offense;
      (2)   Second offense. Any person who has been convicted of a first
offense of violating this ordinance and. within 12 months of such conviction,
violates §§
91.02 or
91.03 a second time by failing to abate the nuisance within the period provided
in the notice shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $50 nor more than
$250 for such offense and shall be identified as a prior offender.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offense. Any person who has been convicted of
violating §§
91.02 or
91.03 on two or more prior occasions, and within 24 months of the first such
conviction, violates §§
91.02 or
91.03 a third or subsequent time by failing to abate the nuisance within the
period provided in the notice shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$100 nor more than $500 for such offense, and shall be identified as a
persistent offender. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during which such nuisance is permitted to exist beyond the period given in the
aforementioned notice.
   (C)   Violation of §§
91.15 or
91.16 shall be punishable by a fine not less than $100 nor to exceed $500 or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (D)    Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
91.31 through
91.38 shall be punished by a fine of no more than $500 or by imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 88-24, passed 3-7-1988; Ord. 88-26, passed 7-18-1988; Ord. 98-005, passed
4-1-1998; Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006; Ord. 14-007, passed 8-7-2014)
CHAPTER 92:  FIREWORKS
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Scope
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Residential displays
   
92.05   Public displays
   
92.06   Public or business property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of fireworks within the
city limits.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 92.02  SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons within the city.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 92.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.  Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration, or
detonation and shall include toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, or toy guns
in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same, squibs, rockets, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, Roman candles, or other device containing any explosive substance,
except that the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and model rocket
engines designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero
models and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices
in which paper and/or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with the United
States Department of Transportation regulations for packing and shipping of toy
paper and/or plastic caps are used and toy paper and/or plastic caps
manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times.
   USE.  To purchase, possess, set off, or otherwise cause to explode or
discharge or burn any firecrackers, torpedo, rocket, or other fireworks or
explosives of inflammable material, or discharge them or throw them from land,
air, or highway into any area of the city. Use also means casting, throwing,
lighting, or firing any squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun,
revolver, pistols, cap or cartridge, or any other combustible firecrackers or
fireworks of any kind.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 92.04  RESIDENTIAL DISPLAYS.
   Citizens residing within the corporate limits of the city may have small
displays at their residence limited to non-aerial displays with no sound report
such as sparklers, fountains, snakes, and the like. These displays will be
permitted on July 3 and July 4 only.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 92.05  PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   Any person may carry out a public display of fireworks within the city upon
complying with the following conditions.
   (A)   Application for permit. Application for a fireworks permit shall be
made to the City Clerk not less than ten days prior to the proposed date of
such public display, stating on such application the name of the person or
organization sponsoring the display; the time, place, and date for such
display, the type of fireworks to be exhibited and the name of the individuals
who will be in charge of the firing of the display.
   (B)   Indemnity agreement. An indemnity agreement must be executed by the
person applying for the permit by which the city is to be indemnified and held
harmless from and against any claims, losses, suits, or demands against the
city arising out of or connected with such exhibition.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The application shall be reviewed by the Mayor and
may be denied, issued upon certain conditions, or issued without conditions as
in the judgment of the Mayor will best protect the safety and well being of the
public.
   (D)   Appeals. If a permit is denied or issued with conditions by the Mayor,
the applicants may appeal such decision to the Board of Aldermen, who may
reverse the decision of the Mayor upon a three-fourths majority vote. The
decision of the Board of Aldermen shall be final.
   (E)   Display of permit. The permit shall be prominently displayed at the
site of any display.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
§ 92.06  PUBLIC OR BUSINESS PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot any type of
fireworks in or on any public street, public sidewalk, public park, public
property, or business property without a permit for a public display.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who fails to comply with or violates the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 06-006, passed 8-15-2006)
CHAPTER 93:  RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Duty to maintain property and rights-of-way
   
93.03   Debris and accumulated materials
   
93.04   Obstructing traffic
   
93.05   Violation
   
93.06   Notice of existence of nuisance
   
93.07   Exception for undue hardship
   
93.08   Abatement by city
   
93.09   Certification of abatement cost
   
93.10   Appeal
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  Regarding the duty to maintain an alley adjacent to a property, the
term ALLEY shall be understood to mean one-half of the alley that is nearest to
the property.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
interferes with public right-of-ways by physical deposition or visual
obstruction, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Fences or other structures on private property abutting the public
right-of-way, which are severely sagging, leaning, fallen, or decayed,
extending into the public right-of-way without being allowed by an encroachment
permit or which is otherwise in an unsafe condition;
      (2)   The existence of any barbed wire or razor ribbon fences within four
feet of any public sidewalk or public right-of-way and at a height of less than
six feet from the ground level; or any wire, twine, or rope fences consisting
of one or more strands, less than three feet in height and within three feet of
any public sidewalk; or any electric fences or any fences or walls with pieces
of glass or other sharp objects (not including barbed wire) embedded or affixed
to the top thereof;
      (3)   The existence of any condition or use causing continuous or
intermittent dense smoke, gas, soot, cinders, or other particulate matter to
such a degree as to render the occupancy of surrounding properties
uncomfortable to a person of ordinary sensibilities;
      (4)   The depositing of mud, dirt, sand, gravel, or concrete onto the
public right-of-way. In the event that such material is deposited in the public
right-of-way, the responsible party shall make every effort to ensure that the
material does not flow into a public storm drain or watercourse and shall
remove the material as quickly as is feasible, but in no event more than 48
hours from the time of depositing;
      (5)   The spilling of debris, including trash, paper, wood, plant
cuttings, and other vegetation onto the public right-of-way;
      (6)   The existence of any condition or use which unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use in the customary manner of any navigable waterway or
any public park, square, public right-of-way, roadway, lane, or sidewalk; and/
or
      (7)   The removal of snow from public/private premises into the public
roadways.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The portion of land along the side of the roadway established
for public use.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.02  DUTY TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, leasing, occupying, or having
charge of any premises in the city to maintain adjacent public right-of-way,
ditch, and alley adjacent to such premises in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.03  DEBRIS AND ACCUMULATED MATERIALS.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises in the
city shall keep or permit upon any alley, right-of-way, or ditch adjacent to
such premises:
   (A)   Debris of any kind which creates a health, safety, or fire hazard or
is so disorderly as to constitute an eyesore in view of residents or from any
street;
   (B)   Heavy waste accumulations such as brick, lumber, broken concrete, dirt
and plaster, sand or gravel, vehicle frames or parts, and other bulky heavy
materials; and
   (C)   Waste oils or fluids from vehicles or garages.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.04  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge of any premises in
the city shall place or permit upon such premises any vehicle, building, fence,
tree, vegetation, junk, or anything of any kind that obstructs the free passage
or overhead clearance of vehicle or foot traffic upon any street, alley, or
right-of way adjacent to such premises.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.05  VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter and declared a public nuisance for
any person who is the owner or occupant of any premises to allow or cause any
nuisance to exist on such premises.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06  NOTICE OF EXISTENCE OF NUISANCE.
   When the existence of a nuisance shall come to the attention of the Chief of
Police, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue a written notice
to the owner of the property and/or the person in charge or in control of the
premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise, and said
notice shall describe the conditions constituting the nuisance and require the
abatement of the nuisance within seven days of delivery of such notice. If the
owner of the property and/or person in charge or control of the premises cannot
be found and served personally, said notice may be served by posting a copy
conspicuously on the premises and by mailing a copy by certified mail to said
person at an address reasonably believed to be accurate. In the event service
of notice is made by posting and mailing, a period of ten business days from
the date of posting and mailing shall be allowed for the abatement of the
nuisance.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.07  EXCEPTION FOR UNDUE HARDSHIP.
   The notice shall also inform the owner of the property and/or the person in
charge or in control of the premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant, or otherwise that, upon written request submitted within seven
calendar days of the notice, the Chief of Police, in his or her sole
discretion, may allow for a time limit in excess of seven days for correcting
the violation in cases where strict enforcement of the time limit would result
in an undue hardship. In the written request, the owner of the property and/or
the person in charge or in control of the premises, whether as owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant, or otherwise shall state the reasons why strict enforcement
of the time limit would result in an undue hardship.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.08  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the owner or occupant fails to begin removal or abatement of the nuisance
in accordance with the removal order within the time allowed, or upon failure
to pursue the removal and abatement of such nuisance without unnecessary delay,
the Chief of Police may cause the condition which constitutes the nuisance to
be removed or abated.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09  CERTIFICATION OF ABATEMENT COST.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police has sent notice and a removal order to the
owner and causes a nuisance to be removed or abated, he or she shall certify
the cost of such removal and abatement (which may include reasonable fees for
the city’s costs in administering this subchapter) to the City Clerk who shall
cause the certified cost to be sent to the property owner.
   (B)   The collection of the delinquent bill shall be governed by the laws
governing delinquent and back taxes. The bill from the date of its issuance
shall be deemed a personal debt against the owner and shall also be a lien on
the property until paid. In the event a lawsuit is required to enforce the
bill, the city may charge the property owner costs of collecting the bill
including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
§ 93.10 APPEAL.
   The Chief of Police shall file a statement of nuisance with the Board, with
notice to the owner of the property and/or the person in charge or in control
of the premises, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant. The Board and City
Attorney shall review the statement of nuisance and determine next steps. The 
owner or the person in charge or in control of the premises shall be given a
chance to appear before the Board and state his or her case before the City
Attorney prosecutes on the charge of public nusiance.
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   First offense. Any person who, having received a notice, fails
to abate the nuisance within the period provided in said notice, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100 for
such offense;
      (2)   Second offense. Any person who has been convicted of a first
offense of violating this subchapter and, within 12 months of such conviction,
violates this chapter a second time by failing to abate the nuisance within the
period provided in the notice shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$50 nor more than $250 for such offense and shall be identified as a prior
offender.
      (3)   Third and subsequent offense. Any person who has been convicted of
violating this chapter on two or more prior occasions and, within 24 months of
the first such conviction, violates this chapter a third or subsequent time by
failing to abate the nuisance within the period provided in the notice shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500 for such
offense, and shall be identified as a persistent offender. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which such nuisance is permitted
to exist beyond the period given in the aforementioned notice.
   (B)   Any person who shall refuse, hinder, or otherwise interfere with the
entry of any city official, police officer, or any other officer, agent, or
employee of the city, in their lawful duties of inspection, posting notice and
removal order, discovery, or abatement of any nuisance, shall be deemed guilty
of a separate offense hereunder and shall be subject to a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 14-004, passed 5-15-2014)
CHAPTER 94:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Discriminatory practices
   
94.04   Discrimination in the financing of a house
   
94.05   Administration
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Board of Aldermen hereby declares it to be the public policy of the city
to eliminate discrimination and safeguard the right of any person to sell,
purchase, lease, rent, or obtain real property without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin. This chapter
shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the city for the protection
of the public welfare, prosperity, health, and peace of the people of the city.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON.  Include any person who is attempting to provide housing
for himself or herself and/or his or her family in the city.
   DISCRIMINATE.  Distinctions in treatment because of race, color, religion,
sex handicap, familial status, or national origin of any person.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 94.03  DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be a discriminatory practice and a violation of this chapter for
any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin of any person;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   Make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin,
or any intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin, that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood or a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of a
handicap of that buyer or renter; a person residing in or intending to reside
in that dwelling after it is so sold, rented, or made available: or any person
associated with that buyer or renter. The design and construction of new multi-
family dwellings containing four or more units is required to meet certain
adaptability and accessibility requirements in accordance with 42 U.S.C. §
3604; or
   (G)   Discriminate in the sale or rental of housing on the basis of familial
status or because a family has children, exempting certain types of buildings
that house older persons (e.g., Section 202 Housing) in accordance with 42
U.S.C. § 3605.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 94.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF A HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan to a person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing,
constructing, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against
any person in the fixing of the amount or conditions of such loan, because of
the race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin
of such person, or of any person therein associated in connection with such
financing.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 94.05  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Fair Housing Committee, whose membership
shall consist of five members, who shall be the Mayor and the Board of
Aldermen.
   (B)   Every complaint of a violation of this chapter shall be referred to a
Fair Housing Committee. The Fair Housing Committee shall forthwith notify the
person against whom the complaint is made. The identity of the aggrieved person
shall be made known to the person against whom the complaint is made at that
time. If the Fair Housing Committee, after investigation, finds there is no
merit to the complaint, the same shall be dismissed. If the Fair Housing
Committee finds that there is merit in the complaint, in its opinion, then and
in that event, the Fair Housing Committee will endeavor to eliminate the
alleged discriminatory practice by conference and conciliation.
   (C)   If the Fair Housing Committee is unable to eliminate the alleged
discriminatory practice by conference and conciliation, then and in that event,
the Fair Housing Committee shall forward said complaint to the City Attorney
for handling. The final determination of whether to prosecute in Municipal
Court on said complaint shall be left to the City Attorney.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such manner as to limit
administrative enforcement mechanisms and recourse against alleged
discriminatory housing practices through the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development, as specified under 42 U.S.C. § 3610, or through the Missouri
Commission on Human Rights, as specified in applicable state statutes.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted in Municipal Court of a violation of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by confinement in the
county jail for not more than three days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   The City Attorney, instead of filing a complaint in Municipal Court of
said city, may, as an alternative remedy, seek to have the alleged
discriminatory practices abated by an action for an injunction to be maintained
in the appropriate Circuit Court of the state.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 5-3-2011)
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
§ 95.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Linn Creek Memorial Park and the Jack Thornhill Fitness Park shall
be open to the public use between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., unless
otherwise posted.
   (B)   The City Clerk may issue permits for individuals or groups to use the
park grounds during the hours listed as closed.
   (C)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Linn Creek Police Department.
(Ord. 17-008, passed 9-21-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND TAXES
      
111.   ALCOHOL
      
112.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
113.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
114.   JUNK YARDS
      
115.   FARMERS MARKET
CHAPTER 110:  LICENSES AND TAXES
Section
Licenses
   
110.01   Commercial use
   
110.02   City License Officer
   
110.03   Application; original license or renewal
   
110.04   Record of licenses issued
   
110.05   Use determination
   
110.06   Transfer of license
   
110.07   Separate license for each place of business
   
110.08   Additional business at same address
   
110.09   Change of location or operation
   
110.10   Responsibility of representatives of compliance of principals
   
110.11   Enforcement
   
110.12   General duties of the police
   
110.13   License year; when fees are paid; expiration
   
110.14   Prorating license fees
   
110.15   License fees; liability of violator
   
110.16   Revocation of licenses
   
110.17   Mayor’s authority to revoke license
   
110.18   License exemptions
Taxes and Fees
   
110.30   Electric corporations
   
110.31   Fees for listing business on city website
   
110.32   Use tax
   
110.33   Sales tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City policies, see
Chapter 32
   Nuisances; health and sanitation, see
Chapter 91
   Planning and zoning, see
Chapter 150
LICENSES
§ 110.01  COMMERCIAL USE.
   (A)   Every property within the city limits that is used for commercial use
will be assessed a commercial use fee annually and issued a business license
that must be made available to city officials on demand.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL USE is any property location within limits where customers
and supplier traffic on city roadways takes place for the intent of profit of
the property owner, occupant, or renter.
   (C)   The usual fee for commercial use will be $45 per year. Commercial
users may reduce their annual fee to $22.50 by providing proof of sales tax
paid in full for the most current tax year. Commercial users who cannot show
proof of paid sales tax for the most recent tax year will not receive a
reduction in fee.
   (D)   All owners of property zoned commercial within the city limits will be
billed for commercial use automatically every January for the coming calendar
year and will be issued a business license upon receipt of payment.
   (E)   All property owners zoned residential within the city limits must
obtain a variance for commercial use of residential property from the Planning
and Zoning Commission. They may then petition the city for a business license
along with evidence of planning and zoning variance approval. Exception for
commercial use of properties zoned residential will be solely at the discretion
of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen.
   (F)   All property owners must obtain a business license within 90 days of
initiating commercial use of a property.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  CITY LICENSE OFFICER.
   The City Clerk shall be the License Officer. All new licenses required by
the city, unless otherwise specified in this subchapter, shall be issued by the
City Clerk, subject to the approval of the Mayor. All applications for new
business licenses will be reviewed by the Board of Aldermen. The Board of
Aldermen shall have the right to revoke or disapprove any license issued by the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.03  APPLICATION; ORIGINAL LICENSE OR RENEWAL.
   Every person required to have a license, or to renew a license, shall submit
an application to the City License Officer by written statement upon forms
provided by the City License Officer, said application shall find it to be
reasonably necessary to the fair administration of this subchapter and which
shall be accompanied by the full amount of the fees chargeable for such
license, which receipt shall not be construed as approval for the issuance of a
license, nor shall it entitle or authorize the applicant to open or maintain
any business contrary to this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.04  RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   The City Clerk shall keep an accurate record of all licenses issued, showing
the nature of the business, the name and address of the licensee, and any other
information deemed proper.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.05  USE DETERMINATION.
   All licenses shall be issued based on a single use as opposed to being a
varied use at any one location and that use which has the largest percentage
shall be the overriding use which shall be used in determining the rate to be
set.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.06  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license is nontransferable and non-assignable.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.07  SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Whenever any applicant for a license is engaged in more than one occupation
or business at separate addresses, a separate license shall be obtained for
each separate business.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.08  ADDITIONAL BUSINESS AT SAME ADDRESS.
   Whenever any applicant for a license is engaged in more than one occupation
or business at the same address, in lieu of making separate applications for
each occupation or business, the applicant shall make application for the major
or principal business being conducted thereon and shall also list on the
application each other type of business being conducted thereon. Under this
subchapter, a business shall be classified as that of a merchant, manufacturer,
warehouse, or service occupation according to principal activity of business.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.09  CHANGE OF LOCATION OR OPERATION.
   If any licensee desires, before the expiration of the license period, to
change the location of his or her place of business, he or she shall notify the
City Clerk of such a change. No business or occupation shall be engaged in by
the licensee at a new location under the authority of such a license until the
notice of the change of location has been given to the City Clerk, and until
the licensee has complied with all the provisions of this subchapter with
respect to the new business location, including the approval of the Board of
Aldermen which originally approved the application for the license.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.10  RESPONSIBILITY OF REPRESENTATIVES OF COMPLIANCE OF PRINCIPALS.
   The local agents or other representatives of nonresidents who are doing
business in this city shall be personally responsible for the compliance of
their principals and of the businesses and enterprises they represent with all
applicable provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.11  ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Clerk and city police shall see that this subchapter and all
sections are fully complied with and shall advise the City Attorney to prepare
complaints against all persons known to be in violation.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12  GENERAL DUTIES OF THE POLICE.
   The Chief of Police and the Police Department shall cooperate with the City
License Officer and other city officials for the strict enforcement of this
subchapter and all license subchapters.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.13  LICENSE YEAR; WHEN FEES ARE PAID; EXPIRATION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided by this subchapter, the year
upon which fees are based for all business licenses shall coincide with the
calendar year starting on January 1 and ending on December 31. License fees for
renewals shall be invoiced and shall be due and payable on or before the last
day of the first month of each license year.
   (B)   All licenses, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this
subchapter, shall expire if the renewal fee is not paid in full within the
period provided for in division (A) above. A license which is not paid in full
by such date is delinquent and such business or occupation will be deemed
unlicensed and fall under the strict enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.14  PRORATING LICENSE FEES.
   Business license fees shall not be prorated but shall be charged on a
license year basis.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.15  LICENSE FEES; LIABILITY OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   All license fees required to be paid pursuant to be provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed delinquent if not paid on the date such payment is
due. All persons delinquent in the payment of such fees, in addition to the
fees found to be due, shall be required to pay the license fee, plus an
additional 10% penalty of the license fee for the first month or fraction
thereof past due, and an additional 2% of the license fee due for each
additional month such delinquency shall thereafter continue. The penalty
provided for in this section shall be in addition to any other penalty
prescribed by subchapter.
   (B)   The amount of any unpaid fee, the payment of which is required
hereunder, shall constitute a debt due to the city.
   (C)   The City Attorney may, at the suggestion of the License Officer,
institute a civil suit in the name of the city to recover any unpaid fee or
enforce this subchapter as a result of any unpaid fee.
   (D)   No civil judgment or any act by the City Attorney, the License
Officer, or the violator shall bar or prevent prosecution in the Municipal
Court for each and every violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16  REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   All licenses are revocable at any time by the Board of Aldermen upon
satisfactory proof that the licensee has violated this subchapter or any other
subchapter relating to the business or acts done under the license, or that the
licensee has been misrepresenting his or her goods or services sold or offered
for sale in the city, has been practicing fraud upon the public or has been
selling food for human beings or animals any unwholesome or unfit substances,
or has been conducting a business not covered by his or her license, or has
been conducting any immoral or disorderly place or business, or has been
conducting any place or business dangerous to public health or safety or
detrimental to public morals. If any license issued pursuant to this subchapter
is terminated by revocation, death of the licensee or other causes, all fees
paid to the city shall be forfeited to the use of the city. No person whose
license has been revoked by the Board of Aldermen shall thereafter be entitled
to engage in the business or do the acts for which the license was issued in
the city, unless the Board of Aldermen, for a good cause shown, shall remove
such disqualifications. Any person engaged in any business, conducting any
place, or doing any act for which a license is or may hereafter be required in
the city, who shall be convicted of violating this subchapter or any other
subchapter relating to his or her business shall, without action by the Board
of Aldermen, have his or her license revoked.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.17  MAYOR’S AUTHORITY TO REVOKE LICENSE.
   Whenever it shall be shown or whenever the Mayor has knowledge that a dealer
licensed under this subchapter has violated any city or state chapter
concerning alcohol, public peace, or maintaining an orderly place or house, the
Mayor shall advise the Board of Aldermen as provided for in §
110.16, suspend, or revoke the license of said business. The licensee may
request a hearing within five days of the delivery of the notice of suspension
or revocation.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
§ 110.18  LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Rummage sales shall be exempt from licenses. Any person holding a
rummage sale more than four periods per year, each period not to exceed three
days and with each period not to be consecutive three-day periods, shall be
declared to be a merchant and shall buy an appropriate license and locate his
or her business in a properly zoned area. Set-up and breakdown for each rummage
sale shall be limited to 24 hours before and after the sales.
   (B)   Farmers and their employees and all other producers and their
employees are exempt from the licensing and fee provisions of this subchapter
when selling agricultural products and produce from a wagon, cart, or vehicle
that such farmers or producers have themselves raised or produced in accordance
with RSMo. § 71.630, as amended.
   (C)   Veterinarians (for veterinary services only) are exempt from the
licensing and fee provisions of this subchapter in accordance with RSMo. §
340.214, as amended.
   (D)   Businesses from outside the city limits whose work within the city is
completed in 30 days or less are exempt from licensing.
   (E)   Delivery services for any property purchased or acquired in good faith
from a place of business outside the city where no intent is shown to exist or
evade the provisions of this subchapter are exempt from licensing.
   (F)   A no fee honorary license may be issued at the direction of the Board
of Aldermen to any individual who is disabled, handicapped, or 70 years or more
of age, and operates his or her own service business, in lieu of the above
described business license. Such license shall remain in good standing from the
time it is passed until the individual is no longer in business, unless revoked
for cause. Any individual who is qualified for such license may only have one
in his or her possession at any given time, regardless of the number of
businesses that individual owns and operates. If more than one license is
needed for an individual, the second must be a business license.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
TAXES AND FEES
§ 110.30  ELECTRIC CORPORATIONS.
   The gross receipts tax imposed upon electric corporation, including, but not
limited to, Ameren, Missouri, pursuant to the local code section establishing
gross receipts tax, shall be maintained at its existing rate as of December 31,
2012, despite the tariff increase awarded by the Public Service Commission to
Ameren, Missouri effective on January 3, 2013.
(Ord. 13-001, passed 2-5-2013)
§ 110.31  FEES FOR LISTING BUSINESS ON CITY WEBSITE.
   (A)   Listing information. The following information or parts of information
shall be included on the city’s business listing website for each business:
      (1)   Business logo (no larger than 200 by 200 pixels);
      (2)   Name of business;
      (3)   Contact person;
      (4)   Physical address of business;
      (5)   Mailing address of business;
      (6)   City, state, zip code;
      (7)   Phone number;
      (8)   Fax number;
      (9)   E-mail address;
      (10)   Website address; and
      (11)   Brief description of products or service (limited to 108
characters, including spaces).
   (B)   Marquee information. The following may be listed on the business
marquee:
      (1)   Business logo (no larger than 200 by 200 pixels); or
      (2)   Name of business and phone number.
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   Setup fee. A one time fee of $15 shall be charged for the setup of
a business listing and/or business marquee listing to the city’s website.
      (2)   Listing fee. A fee of $60 shall be charged to maintain the business
listing on the city’s business listing website for one year. All business
listing fees issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be effective
from December 1 to November 30 of each year. The listing fee for business
listings added to the city’s business listing website after January 1 shall be
charged a prorated fee for the months used during the year.
      (3)   Marquee fee. A fee of $60 shall be charged to maintain the business
logo or name and phone number on the city’s website business marquee for one
year. All business marquee fees issued under the provisions of this section
shall be effective from December 1 to November 30 of each year. The marquee fee
for businesses added to the city’s website business marquee after January 1
shall be charged a prorated fee for the months used during the year.
   (D)   Payments.
      (1)   Setup fee. The setup fee shall be paid when application is made for
the business listing and/or marquee listing.
      (2)   Listing fee. The listing fee shall be paid when application is made
for the business listing, and then payable by November 15 for each year
thereafter.
      (3)   Marquee fee. The marquee fee shall be paid when application is made
for the business marquee, and then payable by November 15 for each year
thereafter.
      (4)   Late fee. A late penalty of 10% will be added to accounts not paid
by November 15.
   (E)   Discontinued listing.
      (1)   Non-payment. Any business listing or business marquee not paid in
full by November 30 shall be removed from the city’s website by December 5. A
business listing that is removed for nonpayment will have to fill out a new
application and pay the setup fee, listing fee, and/or marquee fee to be added
back to the city’s website.
      (2)   Requested removal. A business must request in writing to be removed
from the city’s website. The business listing and/or business marquee will be
removed within ten days of receipt of written requested removal date. A full
refund of any unused full months shall be made within 30 days of requested
removal.
(Ord. 07-004, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 110.32  USE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by, and subject to, the provisions
of RSMo. §§ 144.600 through 144.761, a use tax for general revenue purposes is
imposed for the privilege of storing, using, or consuming within the city any
article of tangible personal property. This tax does not apply with respect to
the storage, use, or consumption of any article of tangible personal property
purchased, produced, or manufactured outside this state until the
transportation of the article has fully come to rest within this city or until
the article has become commingled with the general mass of property of this
city.
   (B)   The rate of the tax shall be 1.5%. If any city sales tax is repealed
or the rate thereof is reduced or raised by voter approval, the city use tax
rate shall also be deemed to be repealed, reduced, or raised by the same action
repealing, reducing, or raising the city use tax.
(Ord. 96-008, passed 5-28-1996)
§ 110.33  SALES TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to state law, a sales tax at the rate of 0.5% is hereby
imposed upon all sellers for the privilege of engaging in the business of
selling tangible personal property or rendering taxable services at retail to
the extent and in the manner provided in RSMo. §§ 144.010 through 144.527, and
the rules and regulations of the Director of Revenue issued pursuant thereto.
The amount reported and returned to the Director of Revenue by the seller shall
be computed on the basis of the combined rate of the tax imposed by RSMo. §§
144.010 through 144.527, and the tax imposed by this section, plus any amounts
imposed under other provisions of law.
   (B)   All revenues received by the city from the sales tax herein imposed
under the provisions of state law shall be deposited by the City Treasurer, or
other authorized city officer, in a special trust fund and shall be used solely
for the purpose of retiring debt under previously authorized bonded
indebtedness of the city or for capital improvements as required and authorized
by state law.
(Ord. 90-071, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found to be in violation of §§
110.01 through
110.18 for a period of 30 days or more shall be summoned before the Municipal
Court of the city, upon complaint duly filed. If the accused plead or be found
guilty, the fined prescribed and judgment shall be not less than $5 and not
exceeding $100 and such imprisonment not to exceed 90 days as provided in RSMo.
§ 79.470, recoverable with costs of suit, and no license shall be issued until
such fine and costs and the license fee shall be paid in full.
   (C)   The penalty for commercial use of any property within the city limits
without a business license will be a fine of no more than $300, separate from
whatever penalties accrue from the County Planning and Zoning Commission, if
applicable.
(Ord. 15-003, passed 3-5-2015)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOL
Section
Intoxicating Beer and Liquor
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Qualifications for licenses
   
111.04   Special election to determine whether intoxicating liquor may be sold
by drink
   
111.05   Scope of regulations
   
111.06   Application for licenses
   
111.07   Period of license
   
111.08   Licenses nontransferable
   
111.09   One license limit
   
111.10   Closing times
   
111.11   Sale by minor
   
111.12   Sale to minor
   
111.13   Window display
   
111.14   Administration of law
   
111.15   Exceptions to minors handling alcohol
   
111.16   Fees
   
111.17   Prohibited conduct
 
   
111.99   Penalty
INTOXICATING BEER AND LIQUOR
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Includes alcohol for beverage purposes, alcoholic,
spiritous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquors, or combination of
liquors, a part of which is spiritous, vinous, or fermented, and all
preparations or mixtures for beverage purposes, containing in excess of 3.2% of
alcohol by weight.
   SALE BY DRINK.  The sale of any intoxicating liquor may be made only after
voter approval.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or expose for sale in this city
intoxicating liquor, as defined in §
111.01, in any quantity, without taking out a license.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall be granted a license hereunder unless such person is
of good moral character, and no person shall be granted a license or permit
hereunder whose license as such dealer has been revoked, or who has been
convicted of a violation of the provisions of any law applicable to the sale of
intoxicating liquor, or who employs in his or her business as such dealer, any
person whose license has been revoked, or who has been convicted of violating
such law since the date aforesaid.
   (B)   Financial interest means all interest, legal, or beneficial, direct or
indirect, in the capital devoted to the licensed enterprise and all such
interest in the net profits of the enterprise, after the payment of reasonable
and necessary operating business expenses and taxes, including interest in
dividends, preferred dividends, interest and profits, directly or indirectly
paid as compensation for, or in consideration of interest in, or for use of,
the capital devoted to the enterprise, or for property of money advanced,
loaned, or otherwise made available to the enterprise, except by way of
ordinary commercial credit or bona fide bank credit not in excess of credit
customarily granted by banking institutions, whether paid as dividends,
interest or profits, or in the guise of royalties, commissions, salaries, or
any other form whatsoever.
   (C)   The City Clerk may require all applicants for licenses to file written
statements, under oath, containing the information reasonably required to
administer this subchapter. Statements by applicants for licenses as retailers
shall set out, with other information required, full information concerning the
residence of all persons financially interested in the business to be licensed
as required by regulation. All material changes in the information filed shall
be promptly reported to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.04  SPECIAL ELECTION TO DETERMINE WHETHER INTOXICATING LIQUOR MAY BE SOLD
BY DRINK.
   (A)   Special elections to determine whether intoxicating liquor may be sold
by drink, how conducted. Upon application by petition signed by one-fifth of
the voters of any incorporated city who are qualified to vote for members of
the legislature in such incorporated city of this state, the Board of Aldermen
or other proper officials of such incorporated city shall submit the question
to the voters of the incorporated city to determine whether or not intoxicating
liquor, as defined in this subchapter, other than malt liquor containing not to
exceed 5% of alcohol by weight shall be sold, furnished, or given away within
the corporate limits of such incorporated city; and the result thereof shall be
entered upon the records of such Board of Aldermen or other proper officials,
provided further, that the Board of Aldermen or other proper officials shall
determine the sufficiency of the petition presented by the poll books of the
last previous city election.
   (B)   Question to be voted upon. The question shall be submitted in
substantially the following form:
      “Shall intoxicating liquor, containing alcohol in excess of 5% by weight,
be sold by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises where sold?”
   (C)   Result of election, favorable vote. If a majority of the votes cast on
the question be for the sale of intoxicating liquor, containing alcohol in
excess of 5% by weight, by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises
where sold, such intoxicating liquors may be sold under the provisions of
existing laws regulating the sale thereof and the procuring of a license for
that purpose; and if a majority of the votes cast on the question be against
the sale of intoxicating liquor, containing alcohol in excess of 5% by weight,
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises where sold, the Board of
Aldermen or other proper authorities of such incorporated city submitting the
question shall publish the result once a week for four consecutive weeks in the
same newspaper in which the notice of submission of the question was published,
and the provisions of this subchapter shall take effect and be in force from
and after the date of the last insertion of the publication last above referred
to; and provided further, that no license to sell intoxicating liquor, by the
drink at retail for consumption on the premises where sold, other than malt
liquor containing not to exceed 5% of alcohol by weight, shall be granted
during the time of publication last above mentioned; provided further, that
this division (C) shall not be construed to interfere with any license issued
before the date of the filing of the petition for the submission of the
question, but such license may run until the date of its expiration and shall
not be renewed. The election in this section provided for, and the result
thereof, may be contested in the same manner as is now provided for by law for
the contest of elections of county officers in this state, by any voter of such
incorporated city in which said election shall be held, by an action to
contest, and which shall be brought against the city holding such election.
   (D)   Result of election, unfavorable vote. If a majority of the votes cast
on the question held under the provisions of this subchapter shall be against
the sale of intoxicating liquor containing alcohol in excess of 5% by weight,
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises where sold, it shall not
be lawful for any person within the limits of such incorporated city to,
directly or indirectly, sell, give away, or barter in any manner whatever
intoxicating liquor, by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises
where sold, except malt liquor, containing alcohol not to exceed 5% by weight,
under proper license, in any quantity whatever, under the penalties prescribed
in this subchapter.
   (E)   Question may be resubmitted. Whenever the question submitted in this
section provided for has been decided for or against the sale of intoxicating
liquor containing alcohol in excess of 5% by weight, by the drink at retail for
consumption on the premises where sold, then the question shall not be again
submitted within four years next thereafter in the same incorporated city, and
then only on a petition and in every respect conforming to the provisions of
this law.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. §§ 311.110, 311.130, 311.140, 311.150, 311.160
§ 111.05  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   Local option provisions applicable only to sales for consumption on
premises. The provisions made by this subchapter for local option shall be held
to be applicable only to sales for consumption on the premises where sold, and
shall not be construed to prevent the sale of intoxicating liquor in the
original package and not to be opened or consumed on the premises where sold,
nor to prevent the sale, at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
where sold, of malt liquor containing not to exceed 5% percent of alcohol by
weight, under license issued in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.06  APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   All applications for all licenses mentioned in this subchapter shall be made
to the Mayor and shall be accompanied by a proper remittance made payable to
the city. The Board of Aldermen shall have the power and duty to determine
whether each application for such license shall be approved or disapproved.
Upon disapproval of any application for a license, the Mayor shall so notify
the applicant in writing, setting forth therein the grounds and reasons for
disapproval, and shall return therewith the applicant’s remittance. Upon
approval of any application for a license, the Mayor shall issue to the
applicant the appropriate license and contemporaneously with such issuance
shall file a notice of the issuance of such license together with the
applicant’s remittance in payment of the same with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.07  PERIOD OF LICENSE.
   (A)   On approval of the application and payment of the license tax provided
in this subchapter, the City Clerk shall grant the applicant a license to
conduct business in the city for a term to expire with December 31 succeeding
the date of such license. A separate license shall be required for each place
of business. No proration of the license fee will be allowed.
   (B)   Applications for renewal of licenses must be filed on or before
January 1 of each calendar year.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.08  LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable or assignable
except as herein provided. In the event of the death of the licensee, the widow
or widower or the next of kin of such deceased licensee who shall meet the
other requirements of this subchapter may make application, and the Board of
Aldermen may transfer such license to permit the operation of the business of
the deceased for the remainder of the period for which a license fee has been
paid by the deceased. Whenever one or more members of a partnership withdraws
from the partnership, the Board of Aldermen, upon being requested, shall permit
the remaining partner or partners originally licensed to continue to operate
for the remainder of the period for which the license fee has been paid,
without obtaining a new license.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.09  ONE LICENSE LIMIT.
   No person or corporation, or any employee, officer, agent, subsidiary, or
affiliate thereof, shall have more than one license, nor be directly or
indirectly interested in any business of any other person or corporation, or of
any employee, officer, agent, subsidiary, or affiliate thereof, to sell
intoxicating liquor, at retail.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10  CLOSING TIMES.
   (A)   No licensee holding a license under this subchapter, nor any employee
of such person, shall sell, give away, or otherwise dispose of, or suffer the
same to be done upon or about his or her premises, any intoxicating liquor in
any quantity between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays and
between the hours of 1:30 a.m. Sunday and 6:00 a.m. Monday.
   (B)   Where such licenses authorize the sale of intoxicating liquor by the
drink are held by clubs or hotels, this section shall apply only to the room or
rooms in which intoxicating liquor is dispensed; and when such licenses are
held by restaurants whose business is conducted in one room only, the
substantial quantities of food and merchandise other than intoxicating liquors
are dispensed, then the licensee shall keep securely locked during the hours
and on the days specified in this section, all refrigerators, cabinets, cases,
vat boxes, and taps from which intoxicating liquor is dispensed.
   (C)   A CLOSED PLACE means a place where all the doors are locked and where
no patrons are in the place or about the premises. Any person violating any
provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a violation.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the sale or
delivery of any intoxicating liquor during any of the hours or on any of the
days specified in this section by a wholesaler licensed under the provisions of
RSMo. § 311.180 to a person licensed to sell the intoxicating liquor at retail.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11  SALE BY MINOR.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall sell or assist in the sale or
dispensing of intoxicating liquor, except as provided in RSMo. § 311.300(2) and
(3).
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.12  SALE TO MINOR.
   Any licensee under this subchapter, or his or her employee, who shall sell,
vend, give away, or otherwise supply any intoxicating liquor in any quantity
whatsoever to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any person
intoxicated or appearing to be in a state of intoxication, and any person
whomsoever except his or her parent or guardian who shall procure for, sell,
give away, or otherwise supply intoxicating liquor to any person under the age
of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or any person appearing to be in a
state of intoxication, or to a habitual drunkard, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the
supplying of intoxicating liquor to a person under the age of 21 years for
medical purposes only, or to the administering of said intoxicating liquor to
any person by a duly licensed physician.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13  WINDOW DISPLAY.
   It shall be unlawful to display in any street window or show window any
intoxicating liquor, or any package, bottle, or container bearing the label or
brand of any intoxicating liquor whosoever, shall violate the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14  ADMINISTRATION OF LAW.
   (A)   Disorderly place; suspension or revocation of license. Whenever it
shall be shown or whenever the Mayor has knowledge that a dealer licensed
hereunder has not at all times kept an orderly place or house, or has violated
any of the provisions of this subchapter, said Mayor shall suspend or revoke
the license of said dealer. The dealer must have full right to have counsel, to
produce witnesses in his or her behalf in such hearing before the Board of
Aldermen, and to be advised in writing the grounds upon which his or her
license is sought to be revoked or suspended.
   (B)   Notice of proceedings to suspend or revoke. In any proceedings before
the Board of Aldermen to suspend or revoke any license, the notice of such
proceedings shall be in writing and shall be sufficiently definite to advise
the licensee of the charges against him or her and the grounds upon which his
or her license is sought to be revoked or suspended, and shall state therein
the time and place when the application to suspend or revoke such license will
be heard. Any application or notice found to be insufficient may be amended on
such terms as may be just.
   (C)   Notice of decision. All final decisions, findings, rules, and orders
of the Board of Aldermen adverse to a party to the proceedings shall be in
writing. Parties to the proceedings shall be notified of the decision of the
Board of Aldermen by mail.
   (D)   Additional complaints; procedure. In addition to the penalties and
proceedings for suspension or revocation of licenses provided for in this
subchapter and without limiting them, proceedings for the suspension or
revocation of any license authorizing the sale of intoxicating liquor at retail
may be brought in the meetings of the Board of Aldermen for any of the
following offenses:
      (1)   Selling, giving, or otherwise supplying intoxicating liquors to any
person who is under or apparently under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
      (2)   Knowingly permitting any prostituteto frequent the licensed
premises;
      (3)   Permitting on the licenses premises any disorderly conduct, breach
of the peace,or gambling or gaming by any method whatsoever;
      (4)   Selling, offering for sale, possessing, or knowingly permitting the
consumption on the licensed premises of any kind of intoxicating liquors, the
sale, possession, or consumption of which is not authorized under his or her
license;
      (5)   Selling, giving, or otherwise supplying intoxicating liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years; and/or
      (6)   Selling, giving, or otherwise supplying intoxicating liquors
between the hours of l:30 a.m. and 12:00 midnight Sunday night.
   (E)   Licenses automatically revoked upon conviction; exceptions. Conviction
in any court of any violation of this subchapter shall have the effect of
automatically revoking the license of the person convicted, and such revocation
shall continue operative until said case is finally disposed of, and if the
defendant is finally acquitted, he or she may apply for and receive a license
hereunder, upon paying the regular license charge therefor in the same manner
as though he or she had never had a license hereunder.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15  EXCEPTIONS TO MINORS HANDLING ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, no person under the
age of 21 years shall sell or assist in the sale or dispensing of intoxicating
liquor or nonintoxicating beer.
   (B)   In any place of business licensed in accordance with RSMo. §§ 311.200,
where at least 50% of the gross sales made consists of goods, merchandise, or
commodities other than intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beer in the
original package, persons at least 18 years of age may stock, arrange, display,
accept payment for and sack for carryout intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating
beer. Delivery of intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating beer away from the
licensed business premises cannot be performed by anyone under the age of 21
years.
   (C)   In any distillery, warehouse, wholesale distributorship, or similar
place of business which stores or distributes intoxicating liquor or
nonintoxicating beer but which does not sell intoxicating liquor or
nonintoxicating beer at retail, persons at least 18 years of age may be
employed and their duties may include the handling of intoxicating liquor or
nonintoxicating beer for all purposes except consumption, sale at retail, or
dispensing for consumption or sale at retail.
   (D)   Persons 18 years of age or older may, when acting in the capacity as a
waiter or waitress, accept payment for or serve intoxicating liquor in places
of business which sell food for consumption on the premises if at least 50% of
all sales in those places consist of food; provided that nothing in this
section shall authorize persons under 21 years of age to mix or serve across
the bar intoxicating beverages.
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.16  FEES.
   The following fees shall prevail and such fees shall accompany any
application submitted to the City Clerk:
 
5% beer by the drink, taverns, restaurants, lounges               $45 per year
3.2% beer by the drink, taverns, restaurants, lounges             $25 per year
Liquor by the drink, taverns, restaurants, lounges                $450 per year
Sunday sales - liquor by the drink, taverns, restaurants, lounges $300 per year
 
(Ord. 89-45, passed 3-20-1989)
§ 111.17  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any retail licensee, licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or beer, or his or her employees to permit in or
upon his or her licensed premises:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The displaying of any portion of the areola of the female breast;
      (3)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals;
      (4)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva,
or genitals;
      (5)   Any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes
to public view any portion of his or her genitals or anus; and/or
      (6)   The displaying of films, video programs, or pictures depicting
acts, the live performances of which are prohibited by this regulation or by
any other law.
   (B)   In addition to the licensee and/or his or her employees being subject
to all penalties contained in this chapter, violation of any act or any
provision contained herein shall be grounds for the license of the licensee to
be suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 93-005, passed 4-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person in violation of any provision of §§
111.01 through
111.17 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not more
than 90 days, as provided in RSMo. § 79.470, or by a fine of not more than
$500, or by both such fine and jail sentence.
(Ord. 88-42, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 88-26, passed 7-18-1988; Ord. 89-45, passed
3-20-1989)
CHAPTER 112:  ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Location restrictions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Employee license
   
112.05   License fee
   
112.06   License application
   
112.07   Employee application
   
112.08   Application processing
   
112.09   Examination, issuance or disapproval of license
   
112.10   Ineligibility and disqualification
   
112.11   Standards of conduct
   
112.12   License display
   
112.13   Manager on premises
   
112.14   Inspector and inspections
   
112.15   Suspension, revocation, or non-renewal of license
   
112.16   Renewal
   
112.17   Judicial review
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  An establishment having as a 10% portion of its stock in
trade, books, photographs, magazines, films, videotapes, or CDs, for sale or
viewing on the premises by use of motion picture devices, other periodicals
which are distinguished or characterized by their principal emphasis on matters
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities as said term
is defined herein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.  Any building, structure, or facility which contains or
is used entirely or partially for commercial entertainment, including theaters
used for presenting live presentations, video tapes, or films predominantly
distinguished or characterized by their principal emphasis on matters
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities as said term
is defined herein, an exotic dance live presentation, video tape, or film
presentation, where the patrons either:
      (1)   Engage in personal contact with, or allow personal contact by,
employees, devices or equipment, or by personnel provided by the establishment
which appeals to the prurient interest of the patrons; or
      (2)   Observe any live presentation, video tape, or film presentation of
persons wholly or partially nude with their genitals or pubic region exposed or
covered only with transparent or opaque covering, or in the case of female
persons, with the areola and nipple of the breast exposed or covered only with
transparent or opaque covering or to observe specified sexual activities as
said term is defined herein.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.  Any premises to which the public, patrons, or
members are invited or admitted and wherein an entertainer provides adult
entertainment to a member of the public, a patron or member.
   BATHHOUSE.  An establishment or business which provides the services of
baths of all kinds, including all forms and methods of hydrotherapy, unless
operated or supervised by a medical or chiropractor practitioner or
professional physical therapist licensed by the state.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any and all persons, including managers, entertainers, and
independent contractors, who work in or at, or render any services directly
related to, the operation of an adult entertainment business.
   ENTERTAINER.  Any person who provides adult entertainment within an adult
entertainment premises as defined in this section, whether or not a fee is
charged or accepted for entertainment.
   EROTIC DANCE.  Any dance performed by an erotic dancer in an erotic dance
establishment which emphasizes or seeks to arouse or excite a patron’s sexual
desires.
   MANAGER.  Any person operating, conducting, or maintaining an adult
entertainment business.
   MASSAGE SHOP.  An establishment which has a fixed place of business having a
source of income or compensation 60% or more of which is derived from the
practice of any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating, or stimulation of external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electric apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotion,
ointment, or other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage. Under such circumstances the person to whom the treatment is being
provided or a third person will pay money or give any other consideration or
gratuity; provided that this term shall not include any establishment operated
or supervised by a medical or chiropractic practitioner or professional
physical therapist licensed by the state.
   MODELING STUDIO.  An establishment or business which provides for a fee or
compensation the services of modeling on premises for the purpose of
reproducing the human body wholly or partially in the nude by means of
photography, painting, sketching, drawing, or otherwise. This does not apply to
public or private schools wherever persons are enrolled in a class.
   OPERATOR.  Any person operating, conducting, or maintaining an adult
entertainment business.
   SERVER.  Any person who serves food or drink at an adult entertainment
business.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Uncovered or exposed human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair,
buttock, or female breast or breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola or nipple, or any combination of the foregoing; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible erect state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Sexual conduct, being actual or simulated,
acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical contact, in an act
of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification, with a person’s clothed or
unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or the breast of a female; or any
sadomasochistic abuse or acts including animals or any latent objects in an act
or apparent sexual stimulation or gratification.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 93-007, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 02-003,
passed 6-4-2002)
§ 112.02  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   The following uses of property are considered adult entertainment
activities: adult bookstore; adult entertainment facility; bathhouse; massage
parlor; and modeling studio; and will adhere to the following requirements.
   (A)   No adult bookstore, adult entertainment facility, bathhouse, massage
parlor, or modeling studio shall be permitted within 1,200 feet of any
religious institution, school, or public park. Such distance shall be measured
in a straight line without regard to intervening properties from the closest
exterior structural wall of the adult entertainment facility to the closest
property line of the religious institution, school, or public park, or other
public buildings.
   (B)   No adult entertainment establishment will be allowed to locate or
expand within 1,000 feet of any other adult entertainment use or of any
business licensed to sell or serve alcoholic beverages, whether or not such
business is also an adult entertainment establishment as defined in this
section. The distance between any two adult entertainment establishments or
between an adult entertainment establishment and a business selling or serving
alcoholic beverages shall be measured in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures from the closest exterior structural wall of each
business. For purposes herein, “adult entertainment” includes any such business
as defined under §
112.01.
   (C)   All access to and from the adult entertainment establishment shall be
provided from a street classified as a thoroughfare.
   (D)   The property on which such use is located shall have a minimum of 100
feet of street frontage.
   (E)   The property on which the use is located shall be screened by solid
masonry wall, at least six feet in height along all interior property lines.
   (F)   The facility in which the use is located shall be designed in such a
fashion that all openings, entries, and windows prevent view into such
facilities from any pedestrian, sidewalk, walkway, street, or other public
area. No adult entertainment activity shall take place partially or totally
outside the adult entertainment establishment.
(Ord. 93-007, passed 4-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
entertainment business in the city unless the owner, operator, or lessee
thereof has obtained an adult entertainment business license from the city, or
to operate such business after such licence has been revoked or suspended by
the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any entertainer, employee, or manager to knowingly
perform any work, service, or entertainment directly related to the operation
of an unlicensed adult entertainment business.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult entertainment business
that fails to have posted, in the manner required by this section, an adult
entertainment business license, has not obtained such a license. In addition,
it shall be prima facie evidence that any entertainer, employee, or manager who
performs any service or entertainment in an adult entertainment business in
which an adult entertainment license is not posted, in the manner required by
this section, had knowledge that such business was not licensed.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to work as an entertainer, server, or manager
at an adult entertainment business without first obtaining a license to do so
from the city, or to work as an entertainer, server, or manager at an adult
entertainment business after such person’s license to do so has been revoked or
suspended.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The license year for all fees required under this section shall be
from each January 1 through December 31. The application for a license shall be
accompanied by payment in full of the fee stated in this section by cash,
business, certified or cashier’s check, or money order; and no application
shall be considered complete until such fee is paid.
   (B)   All licenses shall be issued for a specific location and shall be non-
refundable and nontransferable.
   (C)   The classification of licenses and fees for each shall be as follows:
      (1)   Adult entertainment business license fee is $300 per year;
      (2)   Adult entertainment manager license fee is $20 per year;
      (3)   Adult entertainer’s license fee is $20 per year; and
      (4)   Adult entertainment server’s license fee is $20 per year.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.06  LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All persons desiring to secure a license to operate an adult
entertainment business under the provisions of this section shall make a
notarized application with the City Clerk. All applications shall be submitted
in the name of the person proposing to conduct or operate the adult
entertainment business.
   (B)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the City
Clerk and shall require the following information:
      (1)   The name, residence address, home telephone number, occupation,
date and place of birth of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the adult entertainment business, a description of the
adult entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, and the name of
the owner of the premises where the adult entertainment business will be
located;
      (3)   The names, residence addresses, and dates of births of all
partners, if the applicant is a partnership, and if the applicant is a
corporation, the same information for all corporate officers, directors, and
stockholders who own more that 10% or greater interest in the corporation;
      (4)   The addresses of the applicant, or of all partners, or of all
corporate officers and directors for the five years immediately prior to the
date of application;
      (5)   A description of the adult entertainment or similar business
history of the applicant, or of all partners, or of all corporate officers and
director, whether any such person or entity, in previously operating in this or
another city, county, or state, has had a business license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor, and the activity or occupation subjected to
such action, suspension, or revocation;
      (6)   A statement of the business, occupation, or employment of the
applicant, or of all partners, or of all corporate officers and directors for
the three years immediately preceding the date of the application;
      (7)   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or from each
corporate officer and director that each such person has not been convicted of,
or pleaded guilty to, or released from confinement for conviction of, or
diverted from prosecution on:
         (a)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
         (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography of related offenses as defined in the Missouri Criminal
Code, or involved controlled substances or illegal drugs or narcotics offenses
as defined in the Comprehensive Drug Control Act, RSMo. §§ 195.005 et. seq., or
other statutes or ordinances, or involved in alcohol offenses under the
statutes or ordinances of any state or any municipal body thereof.
      (8)   The statement shall also indicate that the applicant, each partner,
or each corporate officer and director has not been convicted or pleaded guilty
to a municipal ordinance violation or diverted from prosecution on a municipal
ordinance violation, within two years immediately preceding the application
where such municipal ordinance violation involved sexual offenses, indecent
exposure, prostitution, or sale of controlled substances or illegal drugs or
narcotics, or involved alcohol offenses under the statutes or ordinances of any
state or of any municipal body thereof;
      (9)   A full set of fingerprints and a photograph, to be taken by the
Police Department, of the applicant, of all partners if the applicant is a
partnership, or of all corporate officers and directors if the applicant is a
corporation;
      (10)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
registration issued by the Missouri Secretary of State; and
      (11)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this section regulating adult entertainment businesses.
   (C)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by this
section shall constitute an incomplete application which shall not be
processed.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.07  EMPLOYEE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All persons desiring to secure a license under the provisions of this
chapter to be an adult entertainment manager, server, or entertainer shall make
a notarized application with the City Clerk. All applicants shall be submitted
in the name of the person proposing to be an adult entertainment manager,
server, or entertainer.
   (B)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the City
Clerk and shall require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, home address, home telephone number, date and
place of birth, and any stage names or nicknames used in entertaining;
      (2)   The name and address of each adult entertainment business where the
applicant intends to work as a manager, server, or entertainer, and an “intent
to hire” statement from an adult entertainment business that is licensed, or
that has applied for a license, under the provisions of this section,
indicating the adult entertainment business intends to hire the applicant to
manage, serve, or entertain on the premises;
      (3)   A statement from the applicant that the applicant has not been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to, released from confinement for conviction of,
or diverted from prosecution on:
         (a)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
         (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where a misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography, or related offenses, as defined in the Missouri Criminal Code, or
involved controlled substances or illegal drugs or narcotics offenses, as
defined in the Comprehensive Drug Control Act, RSMo. §§ 195.005 et. seq., or
other statutes or ordinances, or involved in alcohol offenses under the
statutes or ordinances of any state or of any municipal body thereof; or
         (c)   The statement shall also indicate that the applicant has not
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a municipal ordinance violation or
diverted from prosecution on a municipal ordinance violation within two years
immediately preceding the application where such municipal ordinance violation
involved sexual offenses, indecent exposure, prostitution, or sale of
controlled substances or illegal drugs or narcotics;
      (4)   A full set of fingerprints and a photograph, to be taken by the
Police Department, of the applicant; and
      (5)   The applicant shall present to the City Clerk who shall copy
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 18 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
         (a)   A motor vehicle operator’s license issued by any state, bearing
this applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
         (b)   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
         (c)   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
         (d)   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
         (e)   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the City Clerk; or
         (f)   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the City
Clerk.
   (C)   Failure to provide the information required by this section shall
constitute an incomplete application and shall not be processed.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.08  APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application for an adult entertainment or
an adult entertainment manager, server, or entertainer license, the City Clerk
shall immediately transmit one copy of the application to the Chief of Police
for investigation of the application. It shall be the duty of the Chief of
Police or his or her designee to investigate such application to determine
whether the information contained in the application is accurate and whether
the applicant is qualified to be issued the license for which the application
has been made. The Chief of Police shall report the results of the
investigation to the City Clerk not later than ten working days from the date
the application is received by the City Clerk.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the reports from the Chief of Police, the City Clerk
shall schedule the application for the consideration by the Board of Aldermen
at the earliest meeting consistent with the notification requirements
established by law, providing the license application for an adult
entertainment business and for an adult entertainment business manager, server,
or entertainer license shall be approved or disapproved within 45 days of the
date of filing of a completed application with the City Clerk’s office. The
applicant shall be notified in writing of the date when the Board of Aldermen
will consider the application.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.09  EXAMINATION, ISSUANCE OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the application for an adult entertainment business or an adult
entertainment business manager, server, or entertainer is in proper form and
accompanied by the appropriate license fee, the Board of Aldermen shall examine
the application, and after such examination, the Board of Aldermen shall, if
the applicant is qualified, approve a license as provided for by law, provided
a license shall not be approved to any person ineligible to §
112.06(B)(9).
   (B)   The record of the Board of Aldermen shall show the action taken on the
application, and if the license is granted, the Board of Aldermen shall direct
the City Clerk to issue the proper license. The license shall state that it is
not transferrable to other persons and the calendar year for which it is
issued. The license shall be kept posted in a conspicuous place in the place of
business that is licensed or where the licensee is working.
   (C)   If an application for a license is disapproved, the applicant shall be
immediately notified by registered or certified mail to the applicant’s last
known address, and the notification shall state that basis for such
disapproval. Any applicant aggrieved by the disapproval of a license
application may seek judicial review in a manner provided by law.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.10  INELIGIBILITY AND DISQUALIFICATION.
   No person is eligible nor shall a license be issued to:
   (A)   An adult entertainment business applicant if one or more of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   The applicant failed to supply all of the information requested on
the application;
      (2)   The applicant gave materially false, fraudulent, or untruthful
information on the application;
      (3)   The applicant’s proposed business premises does not comply with or
meet the requirements of the applicable health, fire, and property maintenance
ordinances of the city, provided that upon a showing that the premises meets
said requirements and that the applicant is otherwise qualified, the
application shall be eligible for reconsideration by the Board of Aldermen;
      (4)   The applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of §
112.06(B)(7); or
      (5)   The applicant has had an adult entertainment license revoked or
suspended in this or any other city during the past five years.
   (B)   An applicant for an adult entertainment manager, server, or
entertainer if one or more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The employer for whom the applicant intends to work does not have
or is ineligible to receive an adult entertainment business license for any of
the reasons stated in division (A) above;
      (2)   The applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of §
112.07(B)(3);
      (3)   The applicant failed to provide all of the information required on
the application;
      (4)   The applicant gave materially false, fraudulent, or untruthful
information on the application; or
      (5)   The applicant has had an adult entertainment manager, server, or
entertainer license revoked or suspended in this or any other city during the
past five years.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.11  STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   The following standards of conduct shall be adhered to by all adult
entertainment business licensees, their employees, and all adult entertainment
business managers, servers, and entertainers and patrons of adult entertainment
businesses, while on or about the premises of the business.
   (A)   Interior restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any erotic dancer to dance at a distance
of less than ten feet from any patron or to touch any patron while dancing.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any erotic dancer to dance on a stage that
is not raised at least two feet above the area on which the patron or patrons
sit or stand.
   (B)   Age restriction. Only persons 18 years of age or older shall be
permitted on the premises of any adult entertainment business.
   (C)   Exterior observation. The premises of all adult entertainment
businesses will be so constructed as to include an anteroom, foyer, partition,
or other physical barrier on all customer entrances that will ensure
observation of the interior of the premises is not observable from the exterior
of the building. In addition, all windows will be covered to prevent viewing of
the interior of the building from the outside and all doorways not constructed
with an anteroom or foyer will be covered so as to prevent observation of the
interior of the premises from the exterior of the building.
   (D)   Exterior display. No adult entertainment business will be conducted in
any manner that permits the observation of live performers engaged in an erotic
depiction or dance or any material or persons depicting, describing, or
relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”, as
defined herein, from any exterior source by display, decoration, sign, show
window, or other opening.
   (E)   Nudity prohibited, exceptions. No employee, server, or entertainer in
an adult entertainment business shall appear nude, unclothed, in less that
opaque attire, or in any fashion that exposes to view any specified anatomical
area.
   (F)   Certain acts prohibited.
      (1)   No employee, server, or entertainer shall perform any specified
sexual activities as defined herein, wear or use any device or covering exposed
to view which simulates any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices
or inanimate objects to perform or depict any of the specified sexual
activities as defined herein, or participate in any act of prostitution.
      (2)   No employee, server, entertainer, or patron of an adult
entertainment business shall knowingly touch, fondle, or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle, or caress any specified anatomical area of such employee, server,
entertainer, or patron, whether such specified anatomical areas are clothed,
unclothed, covered, or exposed.
      (3)   No employee, server, or entertainer of an adult entertainment
business shall be visible from the exterior of the adult entertainment business
while such person is unclothed or in such attire, costume, or clothing as to
expose to view any specified anatomical area.
      (4)   No adult entertainer shall solicit, demand, or receive any payment
or gratuity from any patron or customer for any act prohibited by this section,
and no adult entertainer shall receive any payment or gratuity from any
customer for any entertainment except as follows:
         (a)   While such entertainer is on the stage or platform, a customer
or patron may place such payment or gratuity into a box affixed to the stage;
or
         (b)   While such entertainer is not on the stage or platform and is
clothed so as to not expose to view any specified anatomical area, a customer
or patron may place such payment or gratuity into the entertainer’s hand.
      (5)   No owner, operator, manager, or other person in charge of the
premises of an adult entertainment business shall:
         (a)   Knowingly permit alcoholic liquor or cereal malt beverages to be
brought upon or consumed on the premises, unless otherwise permitted pursuant
to Chapter 111 of this code;
         (b)   Knowingly allow or permit the sale, distribution, delivery, or
consumption of any controlled substance or illegal drug or narcotic on the
premises;
         (c)   Knowingly allow or permit any person under the age of 18 years
of age to be in or upon the premises;
         (d)   Knowingly allow or permit any act of prostitution or patronizing
prostitution on the premises; or
         (e)   Knowingly allow or permit a violation of this section or any
other city ordinance provision or state law.
      (6)   All adult entertainment business shall have conspicuously displayed
in the common area at the principal entrance to the premises a sign, of which
uppercase letters shall be at two inches high and lowercase letters at least
one inch high, which shall read as follows:
THIS ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS IS REGULATED AND LICENSED BY THE CITY OF LINN
CREEK, MISSOURI
         Not permitted to engage in any type of sexual conduct or prostitution
on the premises or to fondle, caress, or touch the breasts, pubic region,
buttocks, or genitals of any employee, patron, or other entertainer or to
permit any employee, patron, or other entertainment to fondle, caress, or touch
the breasts, pubic region, buttocks, or genitals of said entertainer.
         Not permitted to be nude, unclothed, or in less that opaque attire,
costume, or clothing so as to expose to view any position of the breasts below
the top of the areola, or any portion of the pubic region, buttocks, and or
genitals, unless upon a stage at least two feet above the customer floor and a
sufficient distance from the customers to prevent the customers from touching
the entertainers.
         Not permitted to demand or collect any payment or gratuity from any
customer for entertainment, except as follows:
         While such entertainer is on the stage, by placing such payment or
gratuity into a box affixed to the stage; or
         While such entertainer is not on the stage, by either placing such
payment or gratuity into the entertainer’s hand.
CUSTOMERS ARE:
         Not permitted to be upon the stage at any time; and
         Not permitted to touch, caress, or fondle the breasts, pubic region,
buttocks, or genitals of any employee, server, or entertainer or engage in
solicitation for prostitution.
   (G)   Lighting required. The premises of all adult entertainment businesses
shall be equipped with overhead lighting of sufficient intensity to illuminate
every place to which customers are permitted access to an illumination of not
less than one footcandle as measured at the floor level, and such illumination
must be maintained at all times that any customer or patron is present in or on
the premises.
   (H)   Closed booth or room prohibited. The premises of all adult
entertainment businesses shall be physically arranged in such manner that the
entire interior portions of any booths, cubicles, rooms, or stalls is visible
from a common area of the premises. Visibility shall not be blocked or obscured
by doors, curtains, drapes, or any other obstruction whatsoever.
   (I)   Ventilation and sanitation requirements. The premises of all adult
entertainment businesses shall be kept in a sanitary condition. Separate
dressing rooms and restrooms for men and women shall at all times be maintained
and kept in a sanitary condition.
   (J)   Hours of operation. No adult entertainment business may be open or in
use between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on any day other than a Sunday
when the business may not be open between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 12:00
noon.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.12  LICENSE DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under
this chapter as an adult entertainment business shall post such license in a
conspicuous place and manner on the adult entertainment facility premises.
   (B)   Every person holding an adult entertainment server, manager, or
entertainer license shall post his or her license in his or her work area on
the adult entertainment facility premises so it shall be readily available for
inspection by city authorities responsible for enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.13  MANAGER ON PREMISES.
   (A)   An adult entertainment manager shall be on duty at any adult
entertainment business at all times the premises is open for business. The name
of the manager on duty shall be prominently posted during business hours.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the manager to verify that any
person who provides adult entertainment or works as a server within the
premises possesses a current and valid adult entertainers license or an adult
entertainment servers license and that such licenses are prominently posted.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.14  INSPECTOR AND INSPECTIONS.
   All adult entertainment businesses shall permit representatives of the
Police Department or any other city official acting in their official capacity
to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure the business is complying with
all applicable regulations and laws.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.15  SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, OR NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Whenever the City Clerk has information that:
   (A)   The owner or operator of an adult entertainment business or a holder
of an adult entertainment manager, server, or entertainer license has violated,
or knowingly allowed or permitted the violation of, any of the provisions of
this chapter;
   (B)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this section
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult entertainment business knew or should have known that such violations
were committed;
   (C)   The adult entertainment business license or the adult entertainment
manager, server, or entertainer license was obtained through false statements
in the application for such license, or renewal thereof;
   (D)   The adult entertainment business licensee or the adult entertainment
manager, server, or entertainer licensee failed to make a complete disclosure
of all information in the application for such license, or renewal thereof;
   (E)   The owner or operator, any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult entertainment business license has become
disqualified from having a license by a conviction as provided in §
112.10(A); or
   (F)   The holder of an adult entertainment manager, server, or entertainer
license has become disqualified from having a license by a conviction as
provided in §
112.10(B), then the City Clerk shall make this information known to the Board
of Aldermen, which upon five days’ written notice to the person holding the
license conduct a public hearing to determine whether the license should be
suspended or revoked. The Board of Aldermen may pass a resolution setting forth
the procedures for the conduct of such hearings. Based on the evidence produced
at the hearing, the Board of Aldermen may take any of the following actions:
      (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
      (2)   Revoke the license for the remainder of the license year; and/or
      (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation for a period
of up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of the section
occur during the period of probation. If a violation does occur and after a
hearing the violation is determined to have actually occurred, license will be
revoked for the remainder of the license year.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.16  RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the City Clerk on
application forms provided for that purpose. Licenses shall expire on December
31 of each calendar year, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be
submitted before expiration date.
   (B)   Upon timely application and review, as provided for a new license, a
license issued under the provisions of this section shall be renewed by
issuance of a new license in the manner provided in this section.
   (C)   If the application for renewal of a license is not made during time
provided in division (A) above, the expiration of such license shall not be
affected, and a new application shall be required.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.17  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Following the entry of an order by the City Clerk, suspending or revoking a
license issued pursuant to this chapter, or disapproving the renewal
application for a license, such licensee or applicant may seek judicial review
in a manner provided by law. The City Clerk may stay enforcement of such order
for a period of time not to exceed 30 days pending the filing and/or final
disposition or proceedings for judicial review.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this chapter. Upon conviction thereof, such person shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500 or be punished by incarceration for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and incarceration. Each day’s violation
of, or failure, refusal, or neglect to comply with, any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Upon conviction for multiple offenses under the provisions of this
chapter, the city’s prosecuting attorney may seek judicial remedy by temporary
restraining order, temporary injunction, or permanent injunction as he or she
deems necessary or advisable.
(Ord. 93-004, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 93-007, passed 4-20-1993)
CHAPTER 113:  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Franchise fee
   
113.03   Customer service requirements
   
113.04   Rights-of-way
   
113.05   Public, educational, and governmental channels
   
113.06   Continued obligations
   
113.07   Reservation of rights
   
113.08   Notice
   
113.09   Supplementary regulations
   
113.10   Accessory utility facilities
   
113.11   Approval, design, location, and application
   
113.12   General regulations
   
113.13   Residential districts
   
113.14   Nonresidential districts
   
113.15   Landscape screening
   
113.16   Compliance with other laws
Cross-reference:
   City policies, see
Chapter 32
   Licenses and taxes, see
Chapter 110
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meaning as set
forth in RSMo. § 67.2677 or, if not defined therein, shall have such meanings
as established by city code.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.02  FRANCHISE FEE.
   Pursuant to RSMo. § 67.2689, and as partial compensation for use of the
city’s public rights-of-way, each video service provider or other person
providing cable services or video services within the city shall, to the extent
permitted by law, pay to the city a fee of 5% of the gross revenues from such
video services provider in the geographic area of the city. Such payment shall
be made as required by RSMo. § 67.2689. The city shall have the right to audit
any video service provider as authorized by RSMo. § 67.2691. Late payments
shall accrue interest due to the city compounded monthly at 1.5% or such other
maximum rate as may be established by law.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.03  CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.
   All video service providers providing service within the city shall adopt
and comply with the minimum customer service requirements set forth in RSMo. §
67.2692. Notice or receipt of this chapter by the video service provider shall
be deemed notice of the city invoking such customer service requirements.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.04  RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Video service providers shall comply with the requirements of RSMo. §§
67.2707, 67.2709, and all applicable ordinances and regulations consistent with
RSMo. §§ 67.1830 through 67.1848 relating to use of the city rights-of-way.
Each video service provider shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its
officers, employees, and agents from any loss or damage including, but not
limited to, attorney’s fees as provided in such ordinances or regulations, but
in no event less than the obligation on video service providers set forth in
RSMo. § 67.2695. The city may require documentation of such indemnification by
written agreement or other instrument to the extent permitted by law. In
addition, video service providers shall be subject to and comply with such
supplementary provisions relating to placement, screening, and relocation of
facilities as provided in §§
113.09 through
113.16, and such other applicable laws of the city, except as may be otherwise
validly preempted. Notwithstanding any other ordinance to the contrary, no
facilities to be used for video services shall be installed without obtaining a
permit from the city authorizing the location and plans for such facilities;
provided that this provision shall not apply to installation of otherwise
lawful and authorized poles or wires.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.05  PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, AND GOVERNMENTAL CHANNELS.
   Each video service provider shall designate a number of channels for public,
educational, and governmental programming consistent with RSMo. § 67.2703;
provided that any greater number of channels, as may be required in the
incumbent cable franchise or franchise ordinance, shall be required pursuant to
RSMo. § 67.2703.2. The city shall bear no cost relating to the transmission,
availability, or maintenance of such channels unless expressly authorized by
the city in writing and approved by the governing body. Incumbent cable
operators and other video service providers shall provide support for such
public, educational, and governmental channels consistent with RSMo. §
67.2703.8.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.06  CONTINUED OBLIGATIONS.
   The obligations of a cable service provider or video service provider as set
forth in any existing cable services or video services franchise or ordinance
shall also continue to apply to the full extent permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.07  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The city retains all rights in RSMo. §§ 67.2675 through 67.2714, inclusive,
and may take any and all actions permitted by law to exercise such rights or to
enforce such obligations on providers of video service.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.08  NOTICE.
   A copy of this chapter shall be delivered to each video service provider
operating in the city after notice to the city that such provider is authorized
to provide service within the city; provided that the provisions of this
chapter shall, to the extent permitted by law, not be affected by any claimed
or actual failure of a service provider to have received delivery of a copy of
this chapter.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.09  SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS.
   The following supplementary regulations are adopted as part of the general
ordinances of the city; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to apply
in circumstances where such requirements are preempted or would be inconsistent
with applicable law.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.10  ACCESSORY UTILITY FACILITIES.
   Every public utility, cable company, video service provider, and other users
of the city rights-of-way or adjacent easements to provide services shall
comply with the supplemental regulations in this section regarding the
placement of accessory utility facilities on public or private property. For
purposes of this section, ACCESSORY UTILITY FACILITIES shall mean such
facilities, including pedestals, boxes, vaults, cabinets, or other ground-
mounted or below-ground facilities that directly serve the property or local
area in which the facility is placed, are not primarily for transmission or
distribution to other locations, do not materially alter the character of the
neighborhood or area, and otherwise are customarily found in such areas.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.11  APPROVAL, DESIGN, LOCATION, AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Except where limited by other provisions of city ordinance, accessory
utility facilities shall be subject to the following supplementary regulations.
The design, location, and nature of all accessory utility facilities on private
or public property shall require approval of the city, which approval shall be
considered in a nondiscriminatory manner, in conformance with this chapter, and
subject to reasonable permit conditions as may be necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In considering applications individual or multiple location
applications, the city shall review the request to ensure the proposed
facilities do not impair public safety, harm property values or significant
sight-lines, or degrade the aesthetics of the adjoining properties or
neighborhood, and taking into consideration reasonable alternatives. Any
material changes or extensions to such facilities or the construction of any
additional structures shall be subject to the requirements and approvals as set
forth herein. Unless otherwise prohibited, utility facilities subject to this
section may be located in minimum setback areas provided that all other
requirements are met. To the extent permitted by RSMo. § 67.2707.3, the time,
method, manner, or location of facilities to be located in the rights-of-way
may be established or conditioned by the city to protect the rights-of-way or
to ensure public safety.
   (C)   An inspection fee shall be required as may be established by the city
to reimburse the city for the costs of review and inspection of accessory
utility facilities as may be permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.12  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following general regulations apply to all accessory utility facilities:
   (A)   All such facilities shall be placed underground, except as otherwise
provided in §§
113.13 or
113.14 or as approved by special use permit;
   (B)   All such facilities shall be constructed and maintained in such a
manner so as not to emit any unnecessary or intrusive noise;
   (C)   All facilities and utility boxes shall be deemed abandoned after six
continuous months of non-use, and shall therefor be removed within 30 days
thereafter at the cost of the utility;
   (D)   Unless otherwise restricted, utility poles for authorized above ground
lines or facilities shall be permitted up to 45 feet in height where utilities
are not otherwise required to be placed underground; provided, that such poles
shall be no higher than necessary, maintained so as to avoid leaning from
upright position, and without use of guy wires crossing rights-of-way or
pedestrian routes except where approved by the city as necessary due to the
lack of feasible alternatives;
   (E)   Utility facilities placed in designated historic areas may be subject
to additional requirements regarding the placement and appearance of facilities
as may be necessary to reasonably avoid or reduce any negative impact of such
placement;
   (F)   Any damage to landscaping or vegetation on private or public property
during installation or maintenance of facilities shall be promptly remedied by
the facility owner;
   (G)   At least 48 hours prior to any installation, replacement, or expansion
of any facility located on private property, the facility owner shall provide
notice to all property owners within 185 feet from the site. Notice shall
include detailed description of work to be done, the exact location of work and
the time and duration when it will be undertaken;
   (H)   No facilities may be located so as to interfere, or be likely to
interfere, with any public facilities or use of public property; and
   (I)   All utility facilities not authorized by this section or specifically
addressed elsewhere in this code shall be authorized only as a special use
permit.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.13  RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In residential districts, accessory utility facilities less than three and
one-half feet in height and covering less than eight square feet in area may be
installed above ground with the prior approval of the city. Except as otherwise
may be authorized herein, any larger utility facility shall be installed
underground or authorized to be installed above ground only by special use
permit. All above ground facilities, where authorized, shall be placed in the
rear yard wherever practical. If locating these facilities in the rear yard is
not practical, then such facilities may be located in the side yard. Such
facilities shall not be located in the front yard or within the public right-
of-way unless otherwise approved by the city upon a determination that all
other alternatives are not feasible.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.14  NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In nonresidential districts, accessory utility facilities with a height of
less than five feet and covering less than 16 square feet in area may be
installed above ground with the prior approval of the city. Except as otherwise
may be authorized herein, any larger utility facility shall be installed
underground or authorized to be installed above ground only by special use
permit. All above ground facilities, where authorized, shall be placed in the
rear yard wherever practical. If locating these facilities in the rear yard is
not practical, then such facilities may be located in the side yard. Such
facilities shall not be located in the front yard or within the public right-
of-way unless otherwise approved by the city upon a determination that all
other alternatives are not feasible.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.15  LANDSCAPE SCREENING.
   A sight-proof landscape screen shall be provided for all authorized above
ground facilities taller than three feet in height or covering in excess of
four square feet in size. Such screen shall be required to sufficiently conceal
the facility. A landscape plan identifying the size and species of landscaping
materials shall be submitted by the utility and approved by the city prior to
installation of any facility requiring landscape screening. The utility shall
be responsible for the installation, repair, or replacement of screening
materials. Alternative screening or concealment may be approved by the city to
the extent it meets or exceeds the purposes of these requirements. Facilities
located in rear yards may be exempted from screening where located so as not to
be visible from any public property and more than two residential dwelling
units.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
§ 113.16  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   All accessory utility facilities shall be subject to all other applicable
regulations and standards as established as part of the city code including,
but not limited to, building codes, zoning requirements, and rights-of-way
management regulations in addition to the supplementary regulations herein. The
provisions of §§
113.09 through
113.16 shall not apply to any circumstance or entity in which application under
such circumstances is preempted or otherwise precluded by superseding law.
(Ord. 08-001, passed 1-3-2008)
CHAPTER 114:  JUNK YARDS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Display of license
   
114.04   Assignment
   
114.05   Regulation of operation of business
   
114.06   Inspection
   
114.07   Injunction
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD.  The Board of Aldermen for the city.
   CLERK.  City Clerk for Linn Creek, Missouri.
   COLLECTOR.  City Collector for Linn Creek, Missouri.
   JUNK.  Includes rags, paper, scrap, metal, old or wrecked motor vehicles,
and machinery in scrap or salvage collected for purpose of sale or resale, for
the purpose of dismounting or wrecking, or for the purpose of salvaging or
parts therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER.  Any person operating or maintaining a junk yard within the
city.
   JUNK YARD.  Any place of business where junk or salvage is collected and for
the purpose of dismounting and wrecking, the purpose of salvaging in part or
parts therefrom, or with the purpose of salvaging any part of the same. It
shall also include any lot or lots, or parcels thereof, where two or more
vehicles which cannot be moved under their own power are gathered for a period
longer than 30 days.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 114.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person engaged in establishing or operating a junk yard for the
purpose of aforesaid shall file with the Clerk an application for a license to
transact such business under the provisions of this chapter. The license fee
shall accompany the application. The application shall state the nature of the
business and a legal description of the premises on which the business is to be
operated, and a separate license shall be secured for each place where a junk
yard is to be conducted such as is defined and required to be licensed under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Clerk shall then submit the application to the Board of Aldermen
for review and approval, and if approved by the Board, the Clerk shall then
issue to the applicant a license entitling the applicant to conduct a junk yard
for a period of the licensed year. All license fees collected under this
chapter shall be made payable to the order of the Collector and deposited by
the Collector to the credit of the General Fund, subject to the appropriation
by the Board. No junk yard shall be operated within the city without a license
so issued and no license shall be issued or renewed to any junk yard violating
any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every business licensed under the provisions of this chapter and carrying on
and conducting business under the license shall publicly post in a conspicuous
place in or at the place of business licensed, the license issued by the Clerk.
The license to be kept so posted or displayed for inspection by any person.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 114.04  ASSIGNMENT.
   No license issued under the terms of this chapter shall be assigned or
transferred. No refund shall be made to the holder of any license issued
because of sale or transfer of the licensed business.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 114.05  REGULATION OF OPERATION OF BUSINESS.
   All junk dealers shall observe the following regulations in operation of
junk yards.
   (A)   All junk yards shall be kept reasonably sanitary and clean.
   (B)   The burning or processing of salvaged automobiles, trucks, vehicles,
rags, mattresses, tires, rubber materials, and other materials producing dense
smoke within the city is prohibited.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any junk yard within the city and no
junk yard shall conduct business within the city unless said is screened from
public streets and highways by a tight board fence, the lumber of which is in
reasonably good appearance, or by other screen fence of reasonably good
materials, appearance, and construction, not less than ten feet high or
sufficient height to screen the junk yard kept from persons using the public
streets and highways within the city on foot or vehicle in the ordinary manner.
Such screen fence shall be kept in good repair at all times and shall be
painted if necessary to make said fence of reasonably good appearance.
   (D)   All junk yards shall be secured by a lockable gate, of similar
materials of the enclosing fence, and built in such a fashion that upon the
gate being secured, small children could not enter the premises by going
through or under said gate.
   (E)   Rags, paper, and cardboard shall be stored within a suitable structure
and enclosed by fence to prevent their escape when blown by the wind.
   (F)   No rags, paper, cardboard, rubber, or other flammable material shall
be stored on the premises within 75 feet of any oil, gasoline, or other
flammable liquids of the licensee or any other adjoining property owner or
lessee.
   (G)   All exterior area of the outside of the fences and gate surrounding
the premises to be used as a junk yard shall be kept in a clean and neat
condition, free from any materials stored within the junk yard.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06  INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police or other city official authorized by the Mayor or Board
as a licensed inspector shall make an inspection of each junk yard at least
once every six months, and more frequently if deemed necessary, to determine
that the operator thereof is in compliance with the provision of the chapter.
Any violation of this chapter shall be reported to the City Attorney.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 114.07  INJUNCTION.
   Neither the issuance of the license to the junk dealer nor any other
provision of this chapter shall preclude the City Attorney from seeking from a
court of competent jurisdiction a temporary or permanent injunction to abate
any common nuisance nor to restrain any person from violating any provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any junk dealer violating the terms of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by fine
or not more than $500.
   (B)   Any junk dealer convicted of violating the terms of this chapter on
two different occasions within any 12-month period shall have his or her
license to operate the business of a junk yard revoked upon notification to the
holder of the license and City Collector.
   (C)   No junk dealer whose license has been revoked under the terms of this
chapter shall be entitled to receive a new license to operate a junk yard
within a period of one year from the date of revocation of the license.
   (D)   No junk dealer whose license has been revoked under the terms of this
chapter shall be entitled to any refund of his or her license fee.
(Ord. 89-043, passed 2-27-1989)
CHAPTER 115: FARMERS MARKET
Section
   
115.01   Established
   
115.02   Market Manager
§ 115.01  ESTABLISHED.      
   There is hereby established in the City of Linn Creek a marketplace to be
known as the Farmers Market for the sale of produce, processed, packaged or
prepared food and crafts. Products and services are subject to the procedures
and regulations hereinafter set forth by the rules and regulations, identified
as Exhibit A, and vendor contracts, identified as Exhibit B, which have been
ratified by the Board. A copy of the agreement is attached to Ord. 17-011 and
made a part of this chapter, identified as Exhibit A and Exhibit B.
(Ord. 17-011, passed 3-30-2018)
§ 115.02  MARKET MANAGER.
   There shall be a Market Manager appointed by the Board of Aldermen who shall
have general responsibility for the administration of the market and
promulgation and enforcement of rules and regulations for the operation of the
market. A Farmer Market Board may be established at a later date to make
recommendations to the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 17-011, passed 3-30-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Violence and Weapons
   
130.01   Assault
   
130.02   Property damage
   
130.03   Prohibited weapons
   
130.04   Unlawful use of weapon
Drugs and Alcohol
   
130.15   Open beer or liquor container
   
130.16   Marijuana and hashish
   
130.17   Possession or consumption of alcohol by minor
   
130.18   Using drugs or alcohol in public
   
130.19   Drugs and paraphernalia
Public Decency
   
130.30   Public indecency
   
130.31   Tampering
   
130.32   Trespass
   
130.33   Peace disturbance
   
130.34   Stealing
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcohol, see
Chapter 111
   Nuisances; health and sanitation, see
Chapter 91
VIOLENCE AND WEAPONS
§ 130.01  ASSAULT.
   A person commits the offense of assault if he or she knowingly causes
physical injury to another person. Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 565.054
§ 130.02  PROPERTY DAMAGE.
    A person commits the offense of property damage if he or she knowingly
damages property of another, or he or she damages property for the purpose of
defrauding an insurer.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  PROHIBITED WEAPONS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly possesses,
manufactures, transports, repairs, or sells:
      (1)   An explosive weapon;
      (2)   A machine gun;
      (3)   A gas gun (i.e., a gas ejective device);
      (4)   A short barreled rifle or shotgun;
      (5)   A firearm silencer;
      (6)   A switchblade knife; or
      (7)   Knuckles.
   (B)   The terms used in this section shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in RSMo. § 571.010.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPON.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Carries concealed on or about his or her person a knife, a firearm,
a blackjack, or any other weapon capable of lethal use;
      (2)   Sets a spring gun;
      (3)   Willfully discharges or shoots a firearm within the city limits in
a manner that endangers the person or property of another or disturbs the peace
of another; or
      (4)   Possesses a firearm while intoxicated.
   (B)   The terms used in this sections shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in RSMo. § 571.010.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
DRUGS AND ALCOHOL
§ 130.15  OPEN BEER OR LIQUOR CONTAINER.
   A person commits the offense of transporting an open beer or liquor
container if a container of nonintoxicating beer, malt liquor, or intoxicating
liquor is found to be open (that is available for ready consumption) within a
vehicle which that person has under his or her control or in which that person
is a passenger.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16  MARIJUANA AND HASHISH.
   The possession, sale, distribution, or transfer of marijuana in the amount
of 35 grams or less or hashish in the amount of five grams or less is unlawful,
except in the usual course of business or practice, or in the performance of
their official duties by the following persons:
   (A)   Persons licensed under the provisions of RSMo. Chapters 330, 332, 334,
335, 338, and 340;
   (B)   Persons who procure controlled substances:
      (1)   For handling by or under the supervision of persons employed by
them, who are licensed under the provisions of RSMo. Chapters 330, 332, 334,
335, 338, and 340; or
      (2)   For the purpose of lawful research, teaching, or testing and not
for resale.
   (C)   Hospitals and other institutions which procure controlled substances
for lawful administration by persons described in division (A) above;
   (D)   Officers or employees or appropriate enforcement agencies of federal,
state, or local governments, pursuant to their duties in enforcing the
provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   Manufacturers and wholesalers of controlled substances;
   (F)   Carriers and warehousemen handling or distributing controlled
substances or drugs; or
   (G)   Persons using controlled substances for medical purposes upon the
written prescription or personal dispensation by a person licensed under the
provisions of RSMo. Chapters 330, 332, 334, 335, 338, and 340.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17  POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY MINOR.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who purchases, attempts to purchase,
consumes, or has in his or her possession any intoxicating liquor or beer or
any nonintoxicating (3.2%) beer is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18  USING DRUGS OR ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC.
   A person commits the offense of public use of an intoxicating substance when
he or she shall drink or otherwise consume any alcoholic beverage, intoxicating
liquor, or use any controlled substance or narcotic drug in any street, public
park, or other public place.
(Ord. 88-20, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19  DRUGS AND PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions and rules of construction in RSMo.
Chapter 195 apply to this section.
   (B)   Unlawful possession. It is unlawful for any person to manufacture,
possess, have under his or her control, sell, prescribe, administer, dispense,
distribute, or compound any controlled or counterfeit substance except as
authorized in RSMo. Chapter 195.
   (C)   Unlawful use of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to
use, or to possess with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance or an
imitation controlled substance in violation of RSMo. Chapter 195.
(RSMo. § 195.233)
   (D)   Unlawful delivery or manufacture of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful
for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with
intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance or an
imitation controlled substance in violation of RSMo. Chapter 195.
(RSMo. § 195.235)
   (E)   Possession of an imitation controlled substance. It is unlawful for
and person to possess an imitation controlled substance in violation of RSMo.
Chapter 195.
(RSMo. § 195.241)
   (F)   Delivery or manufacture of an imitation controlled substance. It is
unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, manufacture
with intent to deliver, or cause to be delivered any imitation controlled
substance.
(RSMo. § 195.241)
   (G)   Advertisements to promote sale of drug paraphernalia or imitation
controlled substances prohibited.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication, or to post or distribute in any public place,
any advertisement or solicitation with reasonable knowledge that the purpose of
the advertisement or solicitation is to promote the distribution of imitation
controlled substances.
(RSMo. § 195.244)
(Ord. 96-007, passed 3-28-1996)  Penalty, see §
130.99
PUBLIC DECENCY
§ 130.30  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   (1)   A person who knowingly or intentionally, in a public place, to
include, but not limited to, indoor and outdoor entertainment establishments,
restaurants, theaters, bars, bookstores, and places of public accommodation
where one or more other persons are present:
         (a)   Engages in sexual intercourse;
         (b)   Engages in deviate sexual conduct;
         (c)   Appears in a state of nudity;
         (d)   Fondles the genitals of himself or herself or another person; or
         (e)   Any activity which violates the specific sexual activities or
exposes the specific anatomical areas, both such terms of art as defined in §
112.01.
      (2)   Does commit the unlawful act of public indecency and is subject to
punishment pursuant to §
112.99.
   (B)   NUDITY includes the showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, or buttocks, with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of
the nipples or areola, or the showing of the covered male genitals in a
discernibly erect state.
(Ord. 93-006, passed 4-20-1993)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.31  TAMPERING.
   A person commits the offense of tampering if he or she:
   (A)   Tampers with the property of another for the purpose of causing
substantial inconvenience to that person or to another;
   (B)   Unlawfully operates or rides in or upon another’s automobile,
airplane, motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle;
   (C)   Tampers or makes connection with property of a utility; or
   (D)   Tampers with the property or facilities of an institution providing
health or safety protection.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.32  TRESPASS.
   A person commits the offense of trespass if he or she enters unlawfully upon
real property of another. This is an offense of absolute liability.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, RSMo. § 595.150
§ 130.33  PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of peace disturbance if he or she:
      (1)   Unreasonably and knowingly causes alarm to another person or
persons not physically on the same premises by:
         (a)   Loud and unusual noises;
         (b)   Loud and abusive language;
         (c)   Threatening to commit a crime against any person;
         (d)   Fighting; or
         (e)   Creating a noxious and offensive odor.
      (2)   He or she is in a public place or on private property of another
without consent and unreasonably and knowingly causes alarm to another person
or persons by:
         (a)   Loud and unusual noise;
         (b)   Loud and abusive language;
         (c)   Threatening to commit a crime against any person;
         (d)   Fighting; or
         (e)   Creating a noxious and offensive odor.
      (3)   He or she is in a public place or on private property of another
without consent and purposely causes inconvenience to another person or persons
by unreasonably and physically obstructing:
         (a)   Vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
         (b)   The free ingress or egress to or from public or private places.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of private peace disturbance if he or she
is on private property and unreasonably and purposely causes alarm to another
person or persons on the same premises by:
      (1)   Threatening to commit a crime against any person; or
      (2)   Fighting.
   (C)   For the purpose of divisions (A) and (B) above, the following
definitions apply:
      PRIVATE PROPERTY.  Any place which at the time is not open to the public.
It includes property which is owned publicly or privately.
      PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.  Any property in which the actor does not have a
possessory interest.
      SEPARATE PREMISES.  If a building or structure is divided into separately
occupied units, such units are separate premises.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.34  STEALING.
   A person commits the offense of stealing if he or she appropriates property
or services of another with the purpose to deprive him or her thereof, either
without his or her consent or by means of deceit or coercion.
(Ord. 88-10, passed 2-15-1988)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
130.01, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of no more than
$500 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
130.02 through
130.04,
130.15 through
130.18, or
130.31 through
130.34 for which no specific punishment is provided, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of no more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 90 days, or by such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined not less than $10 and not
more than $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail for 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   (1)   A person who violates §
130.19(C) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined
not more than $500 or by imprisonments for a term not exceeding 90 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   A person who violates §
130.19(D)-(F) is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined not more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
130.19(G) is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined
not more than $500 or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of §
130.30. Upon conviction thereof, such person shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 or be punished by incarceration for a period not to exceed 90
days, or by both such fine and incarceration. Each day’s violation of, or
failure, refusal, or neglect to comply with any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 7-18-1988; Ord. 93-006, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 94-005,
passed 10-25-1994)
CHAPTER 131:  CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Consent of parent required
   
131.03   Police authorized to stop minors
   
131.04   Procedure if no parental consent
   
131.05   Claim of knowledge and consent
   
131.06   Nonresident minor
   
131.07   Responsibility of parent
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSENT.  Actual authorization by a parent or legal guardian or silent
acquiescence by a parent or legal guardian having knowledge.
   EMANCIPATED MINOR.  One whose parent or legal guardian has renounced his or
her right to the care, custody, and earnings of said person.
   KNOWLEDGE.  Need not be actual knowledge of the exact location of the minor
in question, rather it may be imputed from the knowledge that: the minor is not
at home; that the minor has an ultimate destination; and that the minor may
make a diversionary trip on his or her way to or from the ultimate destination.
   MINOR. Anyone under the age of 17 years. It does not include anyone under
the age 17 years who is legally married. An “emancipated minor” is not included
in the term MINOR.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 131.02 CONSENT OF PARENT REQUIRED.
   No minor shall be present in or on any public street, park, square, or any
public place within the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
without the knowledge and consent of a parent or legal guardian having the care
and custody of said minor.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988; Ord. 06-002, passed 4-4-2006)
§ 131.03  POLICE AUTHORIZED TO STOP MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department of this city to require
identification from any person who loiters, idly remains, congregates, tarries,
or stays on any public street, park, square, or any public place within the
city during the prescribed hours and whose actions, appearance, demeanor, or
other fact within the knowledge of the police officer gives rise to reasonable
belief that the person stopped is a minor.
   (B)   Such identification shall include the person’s name, age, home
address, phone number and, if the persons address is outside the city limits of
this city, the address within the city at which he or she is staying (if any).
   (C)   Should the person stopped and questioned not be a minor, he or she
shall be allowed to proceed freely with no record made of the inquiry.
   (D)   Should the person stopped and questioned be a minor, the police
officer shall inquire of him or her whether the parent or legal guardian having
care and custody of such minor has knowledge of, and has given consent, to the
presence of said minor in or on the public street, park, square, or public
place involved.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 131.04  PROCEDURE IF NO PARENTAL CONSENT.
   A response by the minor that a parent or legal guardian neither has
knowledge nor has given consent to his or her presence in or on the public
street, park, square, or public place in question, shall constitute grounds for
the officer to escort the minor in question to the address given, to inform the
parent or legal guardian of the actions of the minor in question, and to inform
the parent or legal guardian that he or she may be held responsible for the
delinquency of the minor under §
131.07 should the minor later be brought before any court of this city or state
for delinquency or youthful offender proceedings. Should no parent or guardian
be found at the address given, the procedure described in §
131.06 shall be followed.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 131.05  CLAIM OF KNOWLEDGE AND CONSENT.
   (A)   A response by a minor that a parent or legal guardian has knowledge of
and/or has given consent to his or her presence in or on the public street,
park, square, or public place in question shall constitute grounds to call the
parent or legal guardian of the minor at the phone number given, or at the
phone number registered and listed with the phone company, for a corroborating
statement by the parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   Should the parent or legal guardian not corroborate the statement of
the minor or should no parent or legal guardian answer the phone, the police
officer shall escort the minor home and shall follow the procedure outlined in
§
131.04.
   (C)   Should the parent or legal guardian answering the phone corroborate
the statement of the minor in question, the police officer shall inform the
parent or legal guardian that continuous presence of a minor in or on the
public streets, parks, squares, or other public places during the prescribed
hours may constitute lack of proper supervision and care by the parent or legal
guardian of said minor and may be considered evidence in proceedings for aiding
in the delinquency of a minor, as prescribed in §
131.07. The police officer shall then allow the child to continue on his or her
way or shall escort the child home, as desired by the parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 131.06  NONRESIDENT MINOR.
   (A)   Should the minor identify himself or herself as a nonresident of the
city, the police officer shall check to see if the minor has been found present
in or on a public street, park, square, or other public place within the
previous three months.
   (B)   If there is no record of the minor being found present in or on a
public street, park, square, or other public place within the previous three
months, the police officer shall inform the minor in question of this chapter
and shall escort him or her to the place within the municipal jurisdiction of
the city at which he or she is staying. If the minor is a transient who intends
to leave the city before the next morning, the minor shall be detained and the
parent or legal guardian of that minor shall be informed that the minor will be
detained if desired until the parent or legal guardian, or the designee of the
parent or legal guardian, arrives to claim said minor. If the parent or legal
guardian of the transient minor so requests, the police officer shall release
the minor and escort him or her out of the corporate limits of this city.
   (C)   If the nonresident minor has been found present in or on a public
street, park, square, or other public place within the previous three months,
the officer shall follow the procedure for transient minors, as found in
division (B) above, except that the minor shall not be released until claimed
by a parent or legal guardian or the designee of the parent or legal guardian.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)
§ 131.07  RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT.
   (A)   No parent or legal guardian having the care and custody of a minor
shall fail to properly supervise and care for such child if such failure of
supervision or care shall cause the child to be brought before the Juvenile
Court of the state or any other court of the city or state for delinquency or
youthful offender proceedings.
   (B)   Continuous presence by a minor during the prescribed hours in or on
the public streets, parks, squares, or other public places shall constitute
prima facie evidence of failure by the parent or legal guardian to properly
supervise said minor and shall be considered a cause of the delinquency or
offense committed.
(Ord. 88-25, passed 5-25-1988)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter for which no
specific punishment is provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by
a fine of no more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 88-26, passed 7-18-1988)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING AND ZONING
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150:  PLANNING AND ZONING
Section
   
150.01   County Land Use Code
§ 150.01  COUNTY LAND USE CODE.
   (A)   The Camden County Unified Land Use Code of 2004, which became
effective June 1, 2004, will be adopted as the planning and zoning regulations
for the city.
   (B)   The city will abide by those regulations set forth and will work with
the county to implement and enforce the Camden County Unified Land Use Code of
2004 as it affects the city.
(Ord. 04-003, passed 7-20-2004)
CHAPTER 151:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
151.15   Purpose and scope
   
151.16   Definition
   
151.17   Nuisance declared
   
151.18   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
151.19   Building Inspector
   
151.20   Duties of Building Inspector
   
151.21   Building Commissioner
   
151.22   Duties of the Building Commissioner
   
151.23   Appeal
   
151.24   Emergencies
   
151.25   Violation
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City policies, see
Chapter 32
   Nuisances; health and sanitation, see
Chapter 91
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.15  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a just, equitable, and
practicable method for the repairing, vacation, or demolition of buildings or
structures that may endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety, or
welfare of the occupants of such buildings or the general public, and this
subchapter shall apply to all dangerous buildings, as herein defined, that now
are in existence or that may hereafter exist in the city.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.16  DEFINITION.
   All buildings that are detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the
residents of the city and that have any or all of the following defects shall
be deemed DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Those with interior walls or other vertical structural members that
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those that, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more damage or
deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those that have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs,
or in which the same are overloaded or that have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those that have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to
become dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those that are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or that so
utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are
unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as
to work injury to the health, safety, or welfare of those occupying such
building;
   (F)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are inadequate
to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings who live or
may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other
adequate means of evacuation;
   (H)   Those that have parts thereof that are so attached that they may fall
and injure members of the public or property; and/or
   (I)   Those that, because of their condition, are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of this city.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.17  NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All dangerous buildings, as defined by §
151.16, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as provided herein.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.18  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector and the Building Commissioner in ordering repair, vacation, or
demolition of any dangerous building.
   (A)   If the dangerous building reasonably can be repaired so that it no
longer will exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as no make it dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered
to be vacated and repaired.
   (C)   In all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it no longer
will exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
demolished.
   (D)   In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or
erected in violation of the terms of this subchapter or any ordinance of this
city or state statute, it shall be repaired or demolished.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.19  BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   All city police officers and all other city employees so designated by the
Mayor shall be Building Inspectors within the meaning of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.20  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall have the duty under this subchapter to:
   (A)   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as may be necessary, all
residential, institutional, assembly, commercial, industrial, garage, special,
or miscellaneous occupancy buildings for the purpose of determining whether any
conditions exist that render such places a dangerous building when he or she
has reasonable grounds to believe that any such building is dangerous;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this chapter, and the Building Inspector determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that such building is dangerous;
   (C)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure reported by the Fire
Department or Police Department as probably existing in violation of this
subchapter;
   (D)   (1)   Notify in writing, either by personal service or by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or if service cannot be had by either of these
modes of service, then service may be had by publication in a newspaper
qualified to publish legal notices for two successive weeks, the owner,
occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, and all other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the
county, of any building found by him or her to be a dangerous building within
the standards set forth in §
151.16.
      (2)   The notice required shall state that:
         (a)   The owner must vacate, vacate and repair, or vacate and demolish
said building and clean up the lot or property on which the building is located
in accordance with the terms of the notice and this subchapter;
         (b)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession; and
         (c)   The mortgagee, agent, or other persons having an interest in
said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the
county wherein the land is located may, at his or her own risk, repair, vacate,
or demolish the building and clean up the property or have such work done;
provided, that any person notified under this section to repair, vacate, or
demolish any building or clean up the property shall be given such reasonable
time not exceeding 30 days to commence the required work.
   (E)   The notice provided for in this section shall state a description of
the building or structure deemed dangerous, a statement of the particulars that
make the building or structure a dangerous building, and an order requiring the
designated work to be commenced within the time provided for in division (D)
above;
   (F)   Report in writing to the city’s Building Commissioner the
noncompliance with any notice to vacate, repair, demolish, clean up the
property, or upon the failure to proceed continuously with the work without
unnecessary delay;
   (G)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Building Commissioner and
testify as to the condition of dangerous buildings; and
   (H)   (1)   Immediately report to the Building Commissioner concerning any
building found by him or her to be inherently dangerous and that he or she
determined to be a nuisance per se. The Building Commissioner may direct that
such building be marked or posted with a written notice reading substantially
as follows:
         “This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the
Building Inspector. This notice is to remain on this building and/or property
until it is repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property is cleaned up in
accordance with the notice that has been given the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, or agent of this building, and all other persons having an interest
in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of the
county. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is complied
with.”
      (2)   Provided, however, that the order by the Building Commissioner and
the posting of said notice shall not be construed to deprive all persons
entitled thereto by this subchapter to the notice and hearing prescribed
herein.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.21  BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor and the Board of Aldermen shall act as Building Commissioner under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.22  DUTIES OF THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the power pursuant to this subchapter
to:
   (A)   Supervise all inspections required by this subchapter and cause the
Building Inspector to make inspections and perform all the duties required of
him or her by this subchapter. Upon receiving a complaint or report from any
source that a dangerous building exists in the city, the Building Commissioner
shall cause an inspection to be made forthwith. If the Building Commissioner
deems it necessary to the performance of his or her duties and responsibilities
imposed herein, the Building Commissioner may request an inspection and report
be made by another city department or retain services of an expert whenever the
Building Commissioner deems such service necessary;
   (B)   (1)   Upon receipt of a report from the Building Inspector indicating
failure by the owner, lessee, occupant, mortgagee, agent, or other person(s)
having interest in said building to commence work of reconditioning or
demolition within the time specified by this subchapter, or upon failure to
proceed continuously with work without unnecessary delay, the Building
Commissioner shall hold a hearing giving the affected parties full and adequate
hearing on the matter.
      (2)   Written notice, either by personal service or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, or by publication for two successive weeks in a
newspaper qualified to publish legal notices, at least ten days in advance of a
hearing date, to the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent, and all other
persons having an interest in said building as shown by land records of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county wherein the land is located to appear before
the Building Commissioner on the date specified in the notice to show cause why
the building or structure reported to be a dangerous building should not be
repaired, vacated, or demolished in accordance with the statement of
particulars set forth in the Building Inspector’s notice as provided herein.
      (3)   Any party may be represented by counsel and all parties shall have
an opportunity to be heard.
   (C)   Make written findings of fact from evidence offered at said hearing as
to whether or not the building in question is a dangerous building within the
terms of §
151.16;
   (D)   If the evidence supports a finding based upon competent and
substantial evidence that the building or structure is a dangerous building,
the Building Commissioner shall issue an order based upon its findings of fact
commanding the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent, or other person(s)
having an interest in said building as shown by the land records of the county
wherein the land is located, to repair, vacate, or demolish any building found
to be a dangerous building and to clean up the property, provided that any
person so notified, shall have the privilege of either repairing or vacating
and repairing said building, if such repair will comply with the subchapters of
this city, or the owner or any person having an interest in said building as
shown by the land records of the county wherein the land is located may vacate
and demolish said dangerous building at his or her own risk to prevent the
acquiring by the city of the lien against the land where the dangerous building
stands. If the evidence does not support a finding that a building or structure
is a dangerous building, no order shall be issued;
   (E)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee, or lessee fails to comply with the
order within 30 days, the Building Commissioner shall cause such building or
structure to be repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property cleaned up as
the facts may warrant; and the Building Commissioner shall certify the cost of
the work borne by the city for such repair, vacation, or demolition or cleaned
up to the City Clerk as a special assessment represented by a special tax bill
against the real property affected. Said tax bill shall be a lien upon said
property and shall be deemed a personal debt against the property owner(s)
unless the building or structure is demolished, secured, or repaired by a
contractor pursuant to an order issued by the city and such contractor files a
mechanic’s lien against the property where the dangerous building is located.
The contractor may enforce this lien as provided in RSMo. §§ 429.010 through
429.360. Except as provided in division (F) below, at the request of the
taxpayer this special tax bill may be paid in installments over a period of not
more than ten years. Said assessment shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per
annum until paid;
   (F)   As to damage or loss to a building or other structure caused by or
arising out of any fire, explosion, or other casualty loss, if an order is
issued by the Building Commissioner as provided division (E) above and a
special tax bill or assessment is issued against the property, it shall be
deemed a personal debt against the property owner. If there are proceeds of any
insurance policy based upon a covered claim payment made for damage or loss to
a building or other structure caused by or arising out of any fire, explosion,
or other casualty loss, the following procedure is established for the payment
of up to 25% of the insurance proceeds, as set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above. This division (F) shall apply only to a covered claim payment that is in
excess of 50% of the face value of the policy covering a building or other
structure.
      (1)   The insurer shall withhold from the covered claim payment up to 25%
of the covered claim payment and shall pay such moneys to the city to deposit
into an interest-bearing account. Any named mortgagee on the insurance policy
shall maintain priority over any obligation under the subchapter.
      (2)   The city shall release the proceeds and any interest that has
accrued on such proceeds received under division (F)(1) above to the insured or
as the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto provide within 30 days
after the receipt of such insurance moneys, unless the city has instituted
legal proceedings under the provisions of division (E) above. If the city has
proceeded under the provisions of division (E) above, all moneys in excess of
that necessary to comply with the provisions of division (E) above for the
removal, securing, repair, and clean up of the building or structure and the
lot on which it is located, less salvage value, shall be paid to the insured.
   (G)   If there are no proceeds of any insurance policy as set forth in
division (F) above, at the request of the taxpayer, the tax bill may be paid in
installments over a period of not more than ten years. The tax bill from date
of its issuance shall be a lien on the property and a personal debt against the
property owner(s) until paid;
   (H)   Division (F) above shall apply to fire, explosion, or other casualty
loss claims arising on all buildings and structures;
   (I)   Division (F) above does not make the city a party to any insurance
contract, and the insurer is not liable to any party for any amount in excess
of the proceeds otherwise payable under its insurance policy; and
   (J)   The Building Commissioner may certify, in lieu of payment of all or
part of the covered claim under division (F) above, that it has obtained
satisfactory proof that the insured has removed or will remove the debris and
repair, rebuild, or otherwise make the premises safe and secure. In this event,
the Building Commissioner shall issue a certificate within 30 days after
receipt of proof to permit covered claim payment to the insured without the
deduction pursuant to division (F) above. It shall be the obligation of the
insured or other person making the claim to provide the insurance company with
the written certification provided from this section.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.23  APPEAL.
   Any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, or any other person(s) having
an interest in a dangerous building, as shown by the land records of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county wherein the land is located, may, within 30
days from the receipt of the order of the Building Commissioner, appeal such
decision to the circuit court of the county wherein the land is located,
pursuant to the procedure established in RSMo. Chapter 536.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.24  EMERGENCIES.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
health, life, or safety of any person, unless a dangerous building, as defined
herein, is immediately repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property is
cleaned up, the Building Inspector shall report such facts to the Building
Commissioner and the Building Commissioner may cause the immediate repair,
vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building and clean up of the
property. The costs of such emergency repair, vacation, or demolition of such
dangerous building shall be collected in the same manner as provided in §
151.22(E).
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
§ 151.25  VIOLATION.
   (A)   The owner, occupant, or lessee in possession of any dangerous building
who shall fail to comply with the order to repair, vacate, or demolish said
building given by the Building Commissioner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction shall he punishable as set forth in §
151.99.
   (B)   Any person removing any notices provided for in this subchapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in
accordance with §
151.99.
(Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of §§
151.15 through
151.25 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not more than $500. Each day that a person fails to comply with an order of the
Building Commissioner may be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 91-008, passed 10-27-1991; Ord. 94-006, passed 10-25-1994)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Application
   
152.05   Compliance
   
152.06   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.07   Interpretation
   
152.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.09   Floodplain development permit
   
152.10   Floodplain Administrator
   
152.11   Application for floodplain development permit
   
152.12   Definitions
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.25   General standards
   
152.26   Specific standards
   
152.27   Manufactured homes
   
152.28   Floodway
   
152.29   Recreational vehicles
Variance Procedures
   
152.40   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
152.41   Responsibility of Appeal Board
   
152.42   Further appeals
   
152.43   Floodplain management variance criteria
   
152.44   Conditions for approving floodplain management variances
   
152.45   Conditions for approving variances for agricultural structures
   
152.46   Conditions for approving variances for accessory structures
   
152.47   Amendments
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in RSMo. § 79.110, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt floodplain management
regulations designed to protect the health, safety, and general welfare.
Therefore, the Board of Aldermen ordain as follows.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Flood losses resulting from periodic inundation. The special flood
hazard areas of the city are subject to inundation which results in loss of
life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and
governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection
and relief, and impairment of the tax base; all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   General causes of the flood losses. These flood losses are caused by
the cumulative effect of development in any delineated floodplain causing
increases in flood heights and velocities, and the occupancy of flood hazard
areas by uses vulnerable to floods, hazardous to others, inadequately elevated,
or otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. The flood insurance study (FIS)
that is the basis of this chapter uses a standard engineering method of
analyzing flood hazards which consist of a series of interrelated steps.
      (1)   Selection of a base flood that is based upon engineering
calculations which permit a consideration of such flood factors as its expected
frequency of occurrence, the area inundated, and the depth of inundation. The
base flood selected for this chapter is representative of large floods which
are characteristic of what can be expected to occur on the particular streams
subject to this chapter. It is in the general order of a flood which could be
expected to have a 1% chance of occurrence in any one year as delineated on the
Federal Insurance Administrator’s FIS and illustrative materials for Camden
County, Missouri, dated April 18, 2018, as amended, and any future revisions
thereto.
      (2)   Calculation of water surface profiles are based on a standard
hydraulic engineering analysis of the capacity of the stream channel and
overbank areas to convey the regulatory flood.
      (3)   Computation of a floodway required to convey this flood without
increasing flood heights more than one foot at any point.
      (4)   Delineation of floodway encroachment lines within which no
development is permitted that would cause any increase in flood height.
      (5)   Delineation of flood fringe, i.e., that area outside the floodway
encroachment lines, but still subject to inundation by the base flood.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011; Ord. 17-010, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare; to minimize those losses described in §
152.02(A); to establish or maintain the community’s eligibility for
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), as defined in 44
C.F.R. § 59.22(a)(3); and to meet the requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(d) by
applying the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, or
property in times of flooding or cause undue increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require uses vulnerable to floods, including public facilities that
serve such uses, be provided with flood protection at the time of initial
construction; and
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands that are unsuited for the
intended development purposes due to the flood hazard.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.04  APPLICATION.
    This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
identified as numbered and unnumbered A zones and AE zones on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) for Camden County on map panels 29029C0230C;
29029C0235C, dated June 16, 2011; and 29029C0240D, dated April 18, 2018, as
amended, and any future revisions thereto. In all areas covered by this
chapter, no development shall be permitted except through the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, granted by the Board of Aldermen or its duly
designated representative under such safeguards and restrictions as the Board
of Aldermen or its designated representative may reasonably impose for the
promotion and maintenance of the general welfare, health of the inhabitants of
the community, and as specifically noted in §§
152.25 through
152.29.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011; Ord. 17-010, passed 12-7-2017)
§ 152.05  COMPLIANCE.
   No development located within the special flood hazard areas of this
community shall be located, extended, converted, or structurally altered
without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.06  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.07  INTERPRETATION.
   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor of
the governing body, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other
powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.08  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions or the flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and
bridge openings restricted by debris. This chapter does not imply that areas
outside the floodway and flood fringe or land uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damage. This chapter shall not create a
liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that may result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.09  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required for all proposed
construction or other development, including the placement of manufactured
homes, in the areas described in §
152.04. No person, firm, corporation, or unit of government shall initiate any
development or substantial improvement or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a separate floodplain development permit for each structure or
other development.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.10  FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The City Clerk is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator. Duties of the
City Clerk shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits to
assure that sites are reasonably safe from flooding and that the floodplain
development permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review of all applications for floodplain development permits for
proposed development to assure that all necessary permits have been obtained
from federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which prior approval
is required by federal, state, or local law;
      (3)   Review all subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development, including manufactured home parks or subdivisions, to determine
whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (4)   Issue floodplain development permits for all approved applications;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the Missouri State Emergency
Management Agency (MOSEMA) to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA);
      (6)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity is not diminished and shall
be maintained within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse;
      (7)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures;
      (8)   Verify and maintain a record of the actual elevation (in relation
to mean sea level) that the new or substantially improved nonresidential
structures have been flood-proofed; and
      (9)   When flood-proofing techniques are utilized for a particular
nonresidential structure, the City Clerk shall require certification from a
registered professional engineer or architect.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.11  APPLICATION FOR FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   To obtain a floodplain development permit, the applicant shall first file an
application in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every floodplain
development permit application shall:
   (A)   Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done by lot,
block and tract, house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and specifically locate the proposed structure or work;
   (B)   Identify and describe the work to be covered by the floodplain
development permit;
   (C)   Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is intended;
   (D)   Indicate the assessed value of the structure and the fair market value
of the improvement;
   (E)   Specify whether development is located in designated flood fringe or
floodway;
   (F)   Identify the existing base flood elevation and the elevation of the
proposed development;
   (G)   Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the City
Clerk;
   (H)   Be accompanied by plans and specifications for proposed construction;
and
   (I)   Be signed by the permittee or his or her authorized agent who may be
required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.12  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   100-YEAR FLOOD.  See BASE FLOOD.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure that is on the same parcel of property as
the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the principal structure.
   ACTUARIAL RATES.  See RISK PREMIUM RATES.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Federal Insurance Administrator.
   AGENCY.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES.  Agricultural products and livestock.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE.  Any structure used exclusively in connection with
the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or raising of agricultural
commodities.
   APPEAL.  A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY.  Any state or area or political subdivision thereof that has
authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas
within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, levees, levee
systems, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which
has its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   ELIGIBLE COMMUNITY or PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.  A community for which the
Administrator has authorized the sale of flood insurance under the National
Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  For the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of
the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date,
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as “existing structures”.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland and/or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).  An official map of a community on
which the Administrator has delineated both special flood hazard areas and the
designated regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION.  A determination by the Administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.  An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  The area outside the floodway encroachment lines, but still
subject to inundation by the regulatory flood.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood areas having special flood
hazards have been designated as (unnumbered or numbered) A zones.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  An examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, and floodplain
management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain and grading ordinances) and other applications of police
power. The term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, that provide standards for the purpose of flood damage prevention and
reduction.
   FLOOD-PROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, or
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY or REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other
watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to
discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface
elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES.  The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A use that cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This term
includes only docking facilities and facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, but does not include long-term
storage or related manufacturing facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior or
directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a basement
area, is not considered a building’s lowest floor, provided that such enclosure
is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
flood-proofing design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP.  The flood hazard boundary map (FHBM), flood insurance rate map (FIRM),
or the flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) for a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   MARKET VALUE or FAIR MARKET VALUE.  An estimate of what is fair, economic,
just, and equitable value under normal local market conditions.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP), the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to
which base flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) are referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
“start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   NFIP.  The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   PERSON.  Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including federal, state, and
local governments and agencies.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.  To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with federal, state, or local floodplain management regulations; or,
if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of
the structure before the damage occurred.
   RISK PREMIUM RATES.  Those rates established by the Administrator pursuant
to individual community studies and investigations which are undertaken to
provide flood insurance in accordance with § 1307 of the Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973, 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et. seq., and the accepted actuarial
principles. RISK PREMIUM RATES include provisions for operating costs and
allowances.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   SPECIAL HAZARD AREA.  An area having special flood hazards and shown on an
FHBM, FIRM or FBFM as zones (unnumbered or numbered) A and AE.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvements and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvements were within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, the
installation of streets and/or walkways, excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, the erection of temporary forms, nor installation on the
property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE COORDINATING AGENCY.  The agency of the state government or other
office designated by the Governor or by state statute at the request of the
Administrator to assist in the implementation of the National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) in that state.
   STRUCTURE.  For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home. STRUCTURE for insurance purposes, means
a walled and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a
manufactured home on a permanent foundation. For the latter purpose, the term
includes a building while in the course of construction, alteration, or repair,
but does not include building materials or supplies intended for use in such
construction, alteration, or repair, unless such materials or supplies are
within an enclosed building on the premises.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
The term includes repetitive loss buildings (see definition).
      (1)   For the purposes of this definition, “repair” is considered to
occur when the first repair or reconstruction of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any improvement to a building.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any combination of reconstruction, alteration, or
improvement to a building, taking place during the life of the building, in
which the cumulative percentage of improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the
current market value of the building. For the purposes of this definition, an
improvement occurs when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
      (1)   This term includes structures, which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (2)   The term does not apply to:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to comply
with existing health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been
identified by the Code Enforcement Official and which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions;
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure; or
         (c)   Any building that has been damaged from any source or is
categorized as repetitive loss.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS OR SUBDIVISIONS. 
Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the
streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief by the community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. Flood insurance requirements remain in place for any
varied use or structure and cannot be varied by the community.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required by this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.  The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplain.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.25  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Requirements. No permit for floodplain development shall be granted
for new construction, substantial improvements, and other improvements,
including the placement of manufactured homes, within any numbered or
unnumbered A zones and AE zones, unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied.
   (B)   Location. All areas identified as unnumbered A zones on the FIRM are
subject to inundation of the 100-year flood; however, the base flood elevation
is not provided. Development within unnumbered A zones is subject to all
provisions of this chapter. If flood insurance study data is not available, the
community shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation
or floodway data currently available from federal, state, or other sources.
   (C)   Designating a floodway. Until a floodway is designated, no new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development, including fill,
shall be permitted within any numbered A zone or AE zone on the FIRM, unless it
is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point
within the community.
   (D)   Specific requirements. All new construction, subdivision proposals,
substantial improvements, prefabricated structures, placement of manufactured
homes, and other developments shall require:
      (1)   Design or adequate anchorage to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Construction with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Utilization of methods and practices that minimize flood damages;
      (4)   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air-conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities be designed and/or located so as to
prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
      (5)   New or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into
the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters, and on-site waste
disposal systems be located so as to avoid impairment or contamination; and
      (6)   Subdivision proposals and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, located within special flood hazard
areas are required to assure that:
         (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
         (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (3)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
         (4)   All proposals for development, including proposals for
manufactured home parks and subdivisions, of five acres or 50 lots, whichever
is lesser, include within such proposals base flood elevation data.
   (E)   Storage, material, and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials within the special flood
hazard area that are in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive, or
could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods, if firmly anchored to prevent flotation, or
if readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood
warning.
   (F)   Agricultural structures. Structures used solely for agricultural
purposes in connection with the production, harvesting, storage, drying, or
raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising of livestock, may be
constructed at grade and wet-flood-proofed provided: there is no human
habitation or occupancy of the structure; the structure is of single-wall
design; there is no permanent retail, wholesale, or manufacturing use included
in the structure; a variance has been granted from the floodplain management
requirements of this chapter; and a floodplain development permit has been
issued.
   (G)   Accessory structures. Structures used solely for parking and limited
storage purposes, not attached to any other structure on the site, of limited
investment value, and not larger than 400 square feet, may be constructed at
grade and wet-flood-proofed provided: there is no human habitation or occupancy
of the structure; the structure is of single-wall design; a variance has been
granted from the standard floodplain management requirements of this chapter;
and a floodplain development permit has been issued.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.26  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas identified as numbered and unnumbered A zones and AE zones,
where base flood elevation data have been provided, as set forth in §
152.25(B), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structures, including manufactured homes, shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot above base flood
elevation. (In all unnumbered and numbered A zones and AE zones, the FEMA
Region VII office recommends elevating to one foot above the base flood
elevation to accommodate floodway conditions when the floodplain is fully
developed.)
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structures,
including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation or, together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities, be flood-proofed so that below the base flood
elevation the structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the standards
of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
152.11(B)(9). (The FEMA Region VII office recommends elevating to one foot
above the base flood elevation to qualify for flood insurance rates based upon
flood-proofing.)
   (C)   Equalizing hydrostatic flood forces. For all new construction and
substantial improvements, fully enclosed areas below lowest floor used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement and that are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided; and
      (2)   The bottom of all opening shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.27  MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes to be placed within all unnumbered and numbered
A zones and AE zones, on the community’s FIRM shall be required to be installed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage. For the purposes of
this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within
unnumbered or numbered A zones and AE zones on the community’s FIRM on sites:
      (1)   Outside of manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to and existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely attached to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (C)   Manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites in
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within all unnumbered and
numbered A zones and AE zones on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to
the provisions of division (B) above be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at one foot above the
base flood level; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
36 inches in height above grade and be securely attached to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
(In all unnumbered and numbered A zones and AE zones, the FEMA Region VII
office recommends elevating to one foot above the base flood elevation to
accommodate floodway conditions when the floodplain is fully developed.)
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.28  FLOODWAY.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.04 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters that carry debris and potential projectiles, the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   The community shall select and adopt a regulatory floodway based on
the principle that the area chosen for the regulatory floodway must be designed
to carry the waters of the base flood without increasing the water surface
elevation of that flood more than one foot at any point;
      (2)   The community shall prohibit any encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements, and other development within the
adopted regulatory floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic
and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering
practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in
flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge;
      (3)   If division (B)(2) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.25 through
152.29; and
      (4)   In unnumbered A zones, the community shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation or floodway data currently
available from federal, state, or other sources as set forth in §
152.25(B).
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.29  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles shall be placed on sites within all unnumbered and
numbered A zones and AE zones on the community’s FIRM either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions); and
   (C)   Meet the permitting, elevation, and the anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.40  ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Aldermen shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the floodplain management requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.41  RESPONSIBILITY OF APPEAL BOARD.
   Where an application for a floodplain development permit or request for a
variance from the floodplain management regulations is denied by the City
Clerk, the applicant may apply for such floodplain development permit or
variance directly to the Board of Aldermen, as defined in §
152.40. The Board of Aldermen shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
that there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made by
the City Clerk in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.42  FURTHER APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Aldermen or any
taxpayer may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court of the county as
provided in RSMo. § 89.110.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.43  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCE CRITERIA.
   In passing upon such applications for variances, the Board of Aldermen shall
consider all technical data and evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and the following criteria:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flood damage;
   (B)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flood
damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (I)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (J)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters, if applicable, expected at the site; and
   (K)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems; streets; and bridges.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.44  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (B) through (F) below have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places,
the State Inventory of Historic Places, or local inventory of historic places
upon determination; provided the proposed activity will not preclude the
structures continued historic designation.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the signature
of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.45  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING VARIANCES FOR AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in §§
152.43 and
152.44.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at
grade and wet-flood-proofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures, such as farm houses, cannot be
considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
152.25(D)(2).
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
152.25(D)(1). All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
152.25(D)(4).
      (6)   The agricultural structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or
foundation walls, subject to the 100-year flood, contain openings that will
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
152.26(C).
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway encroachment provisions of §
152.28(B)(2). No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels would result during the
100-year flood.
      (8)   Major equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected
from any flood damage.
      (9)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by any
federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
agricultural structures.
      (10)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
      (11)   Wet-flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and a registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.46  CONDITIONS FOR APPROVING VARIANCES FOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any variance granted for an accessory structure shall be decided
individually based on a case by case analysis of the building’s unique
circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as
those criteria and conditions set forth in §§
152.43 and
152.44.
   (B)   In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the
threat to public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included
for any variance issued for accessory structures that are constructed at grade
and wet-flood-proofed.
      (1)   Use of the accessory structures must be solely for parking and
limited storage purposes in zone A only as identified on the community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
      (2)   For any new or substantially damaged accessory structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the base
flood elevation, must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance
with §
152.25(D)(2).
      (3)   The accessory structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure in accordance with §
152.25(D)(1). All of the building’s structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces including hydrostatic, buoyancy, and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (4)   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or flood-proofed so that they are
contained within a water-tight, flood-proofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
152.25(D)(4).
      (5)   The accessory structures must meet all National Flood Insurance
Program (NFIP) opening requirements. The NFIP requires that enclosure or
foundation walls, subject to the 100-year flood, contain openings that will
permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters in accordance with §
152.26(C).
      (6)   The accessory structures must comply with the floodplain management
floodway encroachment provisions of §
152.28(B)(2). No variances may be issued for accessory structures within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels would result during the
100-year flood.
      (7)   Equipment, machinery, or other contents must be protected from any
flood damage.
      (8)   No disaster relief assistance under any program administered by any
federal agency shall be paid for any repair or restoration costs of the
accessory structures.
      (9)   A community shall notify the applicant in writing over the
signature of a community official that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with the record of all
variance actions as required by this chapter.
      (10)   Wet-flood-proofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the community and registered professional engineer or architect
prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for construction.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.47  AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this chapter may
from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or appealed to reflect any
and all changes in the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, 42 U.S.C.§§ 4001
et. seq.; provided, however, that no such action may be taken until after a
public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties of interest and citizens
shall have an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
At least 20 days shall elapse between the date of this publication and the
public hearing. A copy of such amendments will be provided to the Region VII
office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The regulations of
this chapter are in compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
regulations.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with granting of variances) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any
person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500, and
in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city or other appropriate authority from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 11-006, passed 4-5-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   UTILITIES
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   LAND USAGE
TABLE I:  UTILITIES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Contract with electric company
-        - -         Contract with electric company
-        - -         Terms of an agreement with electric company
42       - -         Granting a franchise to electric company
-        6-6-1941    Contract with electric company
29       6-6-1941    Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
26       7-1-1947    Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
-        1-15-1952   Contract with electric company
21       1-15-1952   Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
40       1-15-1952   Granting a franchise to electric company
-        2-25-1963   Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
-        2-25-1963   Contract with electric company
53       2-25-1963   Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
-        2-25-1963   Contract with electric company
48       2-29-1968   Authorizing the execution of a contract with electric
                     company
88-52    7-18-1988   Granting a franchise to electric company
88-53    7-18-1988   Contract with electric company
01-005   9-4-2001    Contract with electric company
03-003   3-4-2003    Granting a franchise to electric company
06-003   4-18-2006   Contract with electric company
12-006   7-3-2012    Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a franchise agreement
                     with a natural gas company
16-003   11-3-2016   Contract with electric company
                    
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
83-00  6-30-  Authorizing an airport aid contract between the State Highway
       1983   and Transportation Commission and the city
88-51  4-13-  Authorizing Mayor to enter into agreement with Patterson and
       1988   Associates
89-064 7-17-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a contract for professional
       1989   engineering services
92-002 3-31-  Authorizing agreement to transfer property
       1992
93-002 1-25-  Authorizing the execution of contracts with local counties
       1993   concerning law enforcement
96-010 12-17- Authorizing the police department to cooperate with other law
       1996   enforcement agencies in the formation of a major case squad.
99-013 12-21- Granting consent to transfer a cable franchise
       1999
00-008 9-5-   Renewing a cable television franchise agreement
       2000
11-009 6-7-   Agreement with the office of State Court’s Administrator
       2011
13-006 12-17- Authorizing the Mayor to execute all documentation necessary to
       2013   join the state’s Intergovernmental Risk Management Association
16-004 11-3-  Agreement to provide electric services
       2016
             
 
TABLE III:  LAND USAGE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Annexation
-        9-18-1986   Annexation
93-001   1-25-1993   Vacating a portion of a public alley
98-007   4-14-1998   Vacation of an existing road on the south side of the
                     business park
99-002   2-16-1999   Establishing a city park
03-007   10-21-2003  Annexation of adjacent territory
04-006   9-21-2004   Annexation of adjacent territory
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Statutes of Missouri
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO REVISED STATUTES OF MISSOURI
RSMo. Cites Code Section
RSMo. Cites             Code Section
21.01(a)(5)             35.03
57.949 through 57.997   Ch. 73, Schd. III
57.955                  Ch. 73, Schd. III
67.1830 through 67.1848 113.04
67.2675 through 67.2714 113.05
67.2677                 113.01
67.2689                 113.02
67.2691                 113.02
67.2692                 113.03
67.2695                 113.04
67.2703                 113.05
67.2703.2               113.05
67.2703.8               113.05
67.2707                 113.04
67.2707.3               113.11
67.2709                 113.04
71.630                  110.18
79.110                  152.01
79.240                  30.01
79.250                  30.01
79.280                  30.01
79.320                  30.01
79.470                  110.99,
                        111.99
89.110                  152.42
105.300 through 105.445 32.22
105.390                 32.22
115.124                 32.01
144.010 through 144.527 110.33
144.600 through 144.761 110.32
Ch. 195                 130.19
195.005 et. seq.        112.06,
                        112.07
195.233                 130.19
195.235                 130.19
195.241                 130.19
195.244                 130.19
Ch. 211                 111.13
273.030                 90.16
Ch. 288                 32.23
292.675                 32.05
Ch. 300                 30.05
                        70.03,
301.010                 72.42,
                        72.58
Ch. 302                 72.02
302.010 through 302.347 72.08,
                        72.59
302.302                 70.05
304.022                 72.43
304.044                 72.45
311.180                 111.10
311.200                 111.17
311.300(2)              111.11
311.300(3)              111.11
Ch. 330                 130.16
Ch. 332                 130.16
Ch. 334                 130.16
Ch. 335                 130.16
Ch. 338                 130.16
Ch. 340                 130.16
340.214                 110.18
429.010 through 429.360 151.22
455.200 through 455.230 35.03
476.056                 35.03
479.040                 71.05
479.050                 71.06
479.070                 30.03
479.260(6)              71.06
488.010 through 488.020 Ch. 73, Schd. III
488.020                 35.03
488.024                 35.03
488.607                 35.03,
                        Ch. 73, Schd. III
488.5026                35.03
488.5336                34.02,
                        Ch. 73, Schd. III
Ch. 536                 151.23
488.5336.1              35.03
493.050                 32.01
571.010                 130.03,
                        130.04
577.010                 72.99
578.005 through 578.023 90.16
578.007                 90.99
Ch. 590                 33.05
590.100 through 590.180 35.03
590.178                 35.03
595.045                 Ch. 73, Schd. III
595.045.6               35.03
610.021                 32.06
                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
91-006   11-19-1991  32.21
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        - -         TSO Table III
42       - -         TSO Table I
-        6-6-1941    TSO Table I
29       6-6-1941    TSO Table I
26       7-1-1947    TSO Table I
-        1-15-1952   TSO Table I
21       1-15-1952   TSO Table I
40       1-15-1952   TSO Table I
-        2-25-1963   TSO Table I
-        2-25-1963   TSO Table I
-        2-25-1963   TSO Table I
53       2-25-1963   TSO Table I
48       2-29-1968   TSO Table I
83-00    6-30-1983   TSO Table II
-        9-18-1986   TSO Table III
                     130.02–
                     130.04,
88-10    2-15-1988   130.15–
                     130.17,
                     130.31–
                     130.34
88-20    2-15-1988   130.18
                     91.30–
88-24    3-7-1988    91.38,
                     91.99
88-50    3-21-1988   32.22
88-51    4-13-1988   TSO Table II
88-23    5-16-1988   71.05,
                     71.06
                     71.01–
                     71.04,
                     72.01–
                     72.08,
                     72.20–
                     72.26,
88-21    5-25-1988   72.43,
                     72.47–
                     72.59,
                     72.99,
                     Ch. 73, Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74, Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74, Schd. II
88-25    5-25-1988   131.01–
                     131.07
88-42    5-25-1988   111.99
                     91.99,
88-26    7-18-1988   111.99,
                     130.99,
                     131.99
88-52    7-18-1988   TSO Table I
88-53    7-18-1988   TSO Table I
88-27    12-19-1988  72.43
                     52.018–
88-57    12-19-1988  52.020,
                     52.035
                     51.01–
88-58    12-19-1988  51.11,
                     51.99
                     114.01–
89-043   2-27-1989   114.07,
                     114.99
                     111.01–
89-45    3-20-1989   111.17,
                     111.99
89-064   7-17-1989   TSO Table II
90-05    5-1-1990    50.01
90-071   8-27-1990   110.33
                     52.055–
91-001   1-15-1991   52.058,
                     52.999
                     52.001–
                     52.017,
91-006   7-19-1991   52.075–
                     52.083,
                     52.999
91-008   10-27-1991  151.99
92-001   1-21-1992   33.03
92-002   3-31-1992   TSO Table II
93-001   1-25-1993   TSO Table III
93-002   1-25-1993   TSO Table II
93-003   3-16-1993   72.99
                     112.01,
93-004   4-20-1993   112.03–
                     112.17,
                     112.99
93-005   4-20-1993   111.17
93-006   4-20-1993   130.30,
                     130.99
                     112.01,
93-007   4-20-1993   112.02,
                     112.99
93-012   11-23-1993  34.02
93-013   11-23-1993  52.040
93-014   11-23-1993  34.03
94-001   2-28-1994   72.44–
                     72.46
94-002   8-23-1994   34.01
94-004   9-27-1994   72.99
94-005   10-25-1994  130.99
                     151.15–
94-006   10-25-1994  151.25,
                     151.99
96-001   1-16-1996   33.01
96-002   1-30-1996   30.07
96-005   3-28-1996   30.01
96-006   3-28-1996   33.04
96-007   3-28-1996   130.19
96-008   5-28-1996   110.32
96-010   12-17-1996  TSO Table II
97-001   4-22-1997   72.99
                     70.04,
97-005   10-21-1997  70.99,
                     72.42
97-006   12-9-1997   32.01
98-001   1-27-1998   32.23
98-002   2-10-1998   30.04
98-004   4-1-1998    32.04
                     91.15,
98-005   4-1-1998    91.16,
                     91.99
98-007   4-14-1998   TSO Table III
99-002   2-16-1999   TSO Table III
99-003   2-16-1999   30.02
99-006   4-20-1999   33.05
99-007   6-29-1999   30.05
99-012   11-16-1999  70.01
99-013   12-21-1999  TSO Table II
00-002   3-7-2000    31.03
00-007   9-5-2000    72.99
00-008   9-5-2000    TSO Table II
01-003   4-17-2001   30.06
01-005   9-4-2001    TSO Table I
01-008   9-4-2001    72.99
02-003   6-4-2002    112.01
02-005   6-18-2002   32.20
02-006   6-18-2002   32.20,
                     33.02
02-009   6-18-2002   72.99
03-001   2-4-2003    72.41,
                     72.99
03-003   3-4-2003    TSO Table I
03-006   8-5-2003    33.04
03-007   10-21-2003  TSO Table III
04-003   7-20-2004   150.01
04-004   8-17-2004   32.06
04-006   9-21-2004   TSO Table III
05-001   1-18-2005   33.04
                     70.02,
05-002   3-15-2005   70.99,
                     72.99
05-003   6-7-2005    32.03
                     90.01-
05-006   10-18-2005  90.18,
                     90.99
06-001   2-21-2006   32.02
06-002   4-4-2006    131.02
06-003   4-18-2006   TSO Table I
                     91.99,
06-006   8-15-2006   92.01–
                     92.06,
                     92.99
06-007   9-5-2006    70.03,
                     70.99
07-001   4-17-2007   33.04
07-004   11-6-2007   110.31
08-001   1-3-2008    113.01–
                     113.16
08-002   4-1-2008    33.04
                     50.15–
09-002   6-2-2009    50.18,
                     52.036–
                     52.039
                     51.30–
09-007   10-26-2009  51.40,
                     51.99
10-005   7-6-2010    Ch. 73 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I
11-003   1-18-2011   30.03
                     152.01–
                     152.04,
                     152.06-
                     152.12,
11-006   4-5-2011    152.25–
                     152.29,
                     152.40–
                     152.47,
                     152.99
                     94.01–
11-007   5-3-2011    94.05,
                     94.99
                     33.20,
11-008   5-3-2011    33.21,
                     33.99
11-009   6-7-2011    TSO Table II
                     50.15 -
12-001   2-28-2012   50.17;
                     51.55–
                     51.62
12-002   3-20-2012   32.05
12-005   7-3-2012    32.20,
                     33.02
12-006   7-3-2012    TSO Table I
13-001   2-5-2013    110.30
13-004   6-25-2013   72.99
13-005   8-6-2013    32.20,
                     33.02
13-006   12-17-2013  TSO Table II
14-001   1-7-2014    33.04
14-002   2-6-2014    31.02
14-003   3-6-2014    30.07,
                     31.01
                     93.01–
14-004   5-15-2014   93.09,
                     93.99
                     91.01–
14-007   8-7-2014    91.03,
                     91.99
14-008   10-2-2014   31.04
15-001   2-5-2015    33.35–
                     33.37
15-002   2-5-2015    72.40
                     110.01–
15-003   3-5-2015    110.18,
                     110.99
16-003   11-3-2016   TSO I
16-004   11-3-2016   TSO II
17-006   9-7-2017    90.19
17-007   9-7-2017    35.01–
                     35.07
17-008   9-21-2017   95.01
17-009   12-7-2017   33.02
17-010   12-7-2017   152.02,
                     152.04
17-001   12-15-2017  32.01
17-011   3-30-2018   115.01,
                     115.02
18-001   9-6-2018    70.05
                    
 
