OTTERVILLE, MISSOURI
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 487, passed 6-4-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Contents of code
   
10.02   Citation of code
   
10.03   Official copy of code
   
10.04   Altering or amending code
   
10.05   Numbering of code
   
10.06   Definitions and rules of construction
   
10.07   Words and phrases, how construed
   
10.08   Headings
   
10.09   Continuation of prior ordinances
   
10.10   Effect of repeal of ordinance
   
10.11   Repealing ordinance repealed, former ordinance not revived
   
10.12   Severability
   
10.13   Tense
   
10.14   Notice
   
10.15   Notice; exceptions
   
10.16   Computation of time
   
10.17   Gender
   
10.18   Joint authority
   
10.19   Number
City Incorporation and Seal
   
10.30   Municipal incorporation
   
10.31   City seal
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Chapter 33
   City organization, see
Chapter 30
   Mayor and Board of Aldermen, see
Chapter 32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 CONTENTS OF CODE.
   This code contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
city, and includes ordinances dealing with municipal administration, municipal
elections, building and property regulation, business and occupations, health
and sanitation, public order, and similar objects.
(Prior Code, § 100.030)
§ 10.02 CITATION OF CODE.
   This code may be known and cited as the “Municipal Code of the City of
Otterville, Missouri”.
(Prior Code, § 100.040)
§ 10.03 OFFICIAL COPY OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code, bearing the signature of the Mayor and
attestation of the City Clerk as to its adoption, shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk. An extra copy of this code shall be kept in the City
Clerk’s office available for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 100.050)
§ 10.04 ALTERING OR AMENDING CODE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend by additions or
deletions any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such official copy of the code in
any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby. Any person, firm, or corporation violating this section shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to amendments, additions, or deletions
to this code, duly passed by the Board of Aldermen, which may be prepared by
the City Clerk for insertion in this code.
(Prior Code, § 100.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.05 NUMBERING OF CODE.
   Each section number of this code shall consist of two parts separated by a
period; the figure before the period referring to the chapter number, and the
figure after the period referring to the position of the section in the
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 100.070)
§ 10.06 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Definitions. In the construction of this code and of all other
ordinances of the city, the following definitions shall be observed, unless it
shall be otherwise expressly provided in any section or ordinance, or unless
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Board of Aldermen, or unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Otterville,
Missouri.
      CITY. The City of Otterville, Missouri.
      COUNTY, THE COUNTY, or THIS COUNTY. The County of Cooper, Missouri.
      DAY. A day of 24 hours, beginning at 12:00 midnight.
      MAY. Is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Board of Aldermen of the City of Otterville,
Missouri.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Include an affirmation in all cases in which an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. May extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate, and to
partnerships and other unincorporated associations.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action, and
evidences of debt.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. When used by way of reference to any section of
this code, shall mean the section next preceding or next following that in
which the reference is made, unless some other section is expressly designated
in the reference.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC WAY. Include any street, alley, boulevard, parkway, highway,
sidewalk, or other public thoroughfare.
      REAL PROPERTY, PREMISES, REAL ESTATE, or LANDS. Co-extensive with lands,
tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. Is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the
adjacent property line which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
      STATE, THE STATE, and THIS STATE. The State of Missouri.
      STREET. Include any public way, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, or other public thoroughfare, and each of such words shall
include all of them.
      TENANT and OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITING, IN WRITING, and WRITING WORD FOR WORD. Includes printing,
lithographing, or other mode of representing words and letters, but in all
cases where the signature of any person is required, the proper handwriting of
the person, or his or her mark, is intended.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed, and the word YEAR
shall be equivalent to the words “year of our Lord”.
   (B)   Newspaper. Whenever in this code or other ordinance of the city it is
required that notice be published in the “official newspaper” or a “newspaper
of general circulation published in the city”, and if there is no newspaper
published within the city, the said notice shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city, regardless of its place of publication.
Such newspaper shall not include an advertising circular or other medium for
which no subscription list is maintained.
(Prior Code, § 100.080)
§ 10.07 WORDS AND PHRASES, HOW CONSTRUED.
   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or ordinary and usual sense,
but technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
(Prior Code, § 100.090)
§ 10.08 HEADINGS.
   The headings of the chapters and sections of this code are intended as
guides and not as part of this code for purposes of interpretation or
construction.
(Prior Code, § 100.100)
§ 10.09 CONTINUATION OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are in substance the
same as those of ordinances existing at the time of the adoption of this code,
shall be considered as a continuation thereof and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 100.110)
§ 10.10 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   No offense committed and no fine, penalty, or forfeiture incurred, or
prosecution commenced or pending previous to or at the time when any ordinance
provision is repealed or amended, shall be affected by the repeal or amendment,
but the trial and punishment of all such offenses, and the recovery of the
fines, penalties, or forfeitures shall be had, in all respects, as if the
provision had not been repealed or amended, except:
   (A)   All such proceedings shall be conducted according to existing
procedural laws; and
   (B)   If the penalty or punishment for any offense is reduced or lessened by
any alteration of the law creating the offense prior to original sentencing,
the penalty or punishment shall be assessed according to the amendatory law.
(Prior Code, § 100.120)
§ 10.11 REPEALING ORDINANCE REPEALED, FORMER ORDINANCE NOT REVIVED.
   When an ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision is
itself repealed, it does not revive the former ordinance, clause, or provision,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided; nor shall any ordinance repealing
any former ordinance, clause, or provision abate, annul, or in any way affect
any proceedings had or commenced under or by virtue of the ordinance so
repealed, but the same is as effectual and shall be proceeded on to final
judgment and termination as if the repealing ordinance had not passed, unless
it is otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 100.130)
§ 10.12 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board of Aldermen that the
chapters, sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code
are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or
chapter of this code shall be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by
the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, sections, and chapters of this code
since the same would have been enacted by the Board of Aldermen without the
incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional or invalid phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Prior Code, § 100.140)
§ 10.13 TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, all
words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
the time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include the time of
the happening of any act, event, or requirement for which provision is made
herein, either as a power, immunity, requirement, or prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 100.150)
§ 10.14 NOTICE.
   Whenever notice may be required under the provisions of this code or other
city ordinance, the same shall be served in the following manner:
   (A)   By delivering the notice to the person to be served personally or by
leaving the same at his or her residence, office, or place of business with
some person of his or her family over the age of 15 years;
   (B)   By mailing said notice by certified or registered mail to such person
to be served at his or her last known address; or
   (C)   If the person to be served is unknown, or may not be notified under
the requirements of this section, then by posting said notice in some
conspicuous place at least five days before the act or action concerning which
the notice is given is to take place. No person shall interfere with, obstruct,
mutilate, conceal, or tear down any official notice or placard posted by any
city officer, unless permission is given by said officer.
(Prior Code, § 100.160)
§ 10.15 NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
10.14 shall not apply to those chapters of this code wherein there is a
separate definition of notice.
(Prior Code, § 100.170)
§ 10.16 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code or by a
notice or order issued pursuant thereto, the day of the act, event, or default
after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included.
The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a
Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until the
end of the next day which is neither a Saturday, Sunday, nor a legal holiday.
When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven days,
intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays shall be excluded in the
computation.
(Prior Code, § 100.180)
§ 10.17 GENDER.
   When any subject matter, party, or person is described or referred to by
words importing the masculine, females as well as males, and associations and
bodies corporate as well as individuals, shall be deemed to be included.
(Prior Code, § 100.190)
§ 10.18 JOINT AUTHORITY.
   Words importing joint authority to three or more persons shall be construed
as authority to a majority of such persons unless otherwise declared in the law
giving the authority.
(Prior Code, § 100.200)
§ 10.19 NUMBER.
   When any subject matter, party, or person is described or referred to by
words importing the singular number, the plural and separate matters and
persons and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; and when words
importing the plural number are used, the singular shall be included.
(Prior Code, § 100.210)
CITY INCORPORATION AND SEAL
§ 10.30 MUNICIPAL INCORPORATION.
   The inhabitants of the city, as its limits now are, or may hereafter be
defined by law, shall be and continue a body corporate by the name of “The City
of Otterville”, and as such shall have perpetual succession, may sue and be
sued, implead and be impleaded, defend and be defended in all courts of law and
equity and in all actions whatever; may receive and hold property, both real
and personal, within such city, and may purchase, receive, and hold real estate
within or without such city for the burial of the dead; and may purchase, hold,
lease, sell, or otherwise dispose of any property, real or personal, it now
owns or may hereafter acquire; may receive bequests, gifts, and donations of
all kinds of property, and may have and hold one common seal, and may break,
change, or alter the same at pleasure, and may do any act, exercise any power,
and render any service which contributes to the general welfare, and all courts
of this state shall take judicial notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 100.010)
§ 10.31 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The seal of the city shall be circular in form, one and seven-eighths
inches in diameter, and the words “Seal of the City of Otterville, Missouri”
engraved on the face thereof and near the outer edge of said seal, and the same
is hereby declared to be adopted as the seal of the city.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be the keeper of the common seal of the city, and
any impression of said seal to any contract or other writing shall have no
validity or binding obligation upon the city unless such impression be
accompanied by the attestation and signature of the City Clerk, and then only
in cases authorized by law or the ordinances of this city.
(Prior Code, § 100.020)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or any other ordinance of the city, or in any rule,
regulation, notice or order promulgated by any officer or agency of the city
under authority duly vested in him, her or it, any act is prohibited or is
declared to be unlawful or an offense, misdemeanor or ordinance violation or
the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful or an offense, misdemeanor or ordinance violation, and no specific
penalty is provided for the violation thereof, upon conviction of a violation
of any such provision of this code or of any such ordinance, rule, regulation,
notice or order, the violator shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 or
by imprisonment in the city or county jail not exceeding 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment; provided, that in any case wherein the penalty for
an offense is fixed by a statute of the state, the statutory penalty, and no
other, shall be imposed for such offense, except that imprisonments may be in
the city prison or workhouse instead of the county jail. Provided however, that
if state statutes provide a lesser maximum penalty for any offense or category
of offenses such lesser maximum shall apply in lieu of the provisions of this
section.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN
      
33.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
      
35.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
36.   TAXATION, FINANCE, AND PURCHASING
      
37.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
Emergency Management
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Organization
   
30.03   Functions
   
30.04   Director
   
30.05   Scope of operation
   
30.06   Mutual-aid agreements
   
30.07   City may accept services and the like
   
30.08   Oath
   
30.09   Office space
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created within and for the city an emergency management
organization to be known as the “city’s Emergency Management Organization”,
which is responsible for the preparation and implementation of emergency
functions required to prevent injury and minimize and repair damage due to
disasters, to include emergency management of resources and administration of
such economic controls as may be needed to provide for the welfare of the
people, and emergency activities (excluding functions for which military forces
are primarily responsible) in accordance with RSMo. Chapter 44, and supplements
thereto, and the state’s Emergency Operations Plan adopted thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 225.010)
§ 30.02 ORGANIZATION.
   This agency shall consist of a Director and other members appointed by the
city’s Emergency Management Organization to conform to the state organization
and procedures for the conduct of emergency operations as outlined in the
state’s Emergency Operations Plan.
(Prior Code, § 225.020)
§ 30.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The organization shall perform emergency management functions within the
city, and may conduct these functions outside the territorial limits as
directed by the Governor during the time of emergency pursuant to the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 44, and supplements thereto.
(Prior Code, § 225.030)
§ 30.04 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director will be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor.
   (B)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operations of local emergency management activities,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor or Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for maintaining records and
accounting for the use and disposal of all items of equipment placed under the
jurisdiction of the city’s Emergency Management Organization.
(Prior Code, § 225.040)
§ 30.05 SCOPE OF OPERATION.
   The city, in accordance with RSMo. Chapter 44, may:
   (A)   Appropriate and expend funds, make contracts, obtain and distribute
equipment, materials, and supplies for civil defense purposes; provide for the
health and safety of persons, including emergency assistance to victims of any
enemy attack; the safety of property; and direct and coordinate the development
of disaster plans and programs in accordance with the policies and plans of the
federal and state disaster and emergency planning;
   (B)   Appoint, provide, or remove rescue teams, auxiliary fire and police
personnel, and other emergency operation teams, units, or personnel who may
serve without compensation; and
   (C)   In the event of enemy attack, waive the provisions of statutes
requiring advertisements for bids for the performance of public work or
entering into contracts.
(Prior Code, § 225.050)
§ 30.06 MUTUAL-AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Mayor of the city, with the approval of the Governor and consistent with
the state’s Emergency Operations Plan, may enter into mutual-aid agreements
with other public and private agencies within and without the state for
reciprocal emergency aid. The Director may assist in the negotiation of such
reciprocal mutual-aid agreements.
(Prior Code, § 225.060)
§ 30.07 CITY MAY ACCEPT SERVICES AND THE LIKE.
   The Mayor of the city may, with the consent of the Governor, accept
services, materials, equipment, supplies, or funds gifted, granted, or loaned
by the federal government or an officer or agency thereof for disaster planning
and operations purposes, subject to the terms of the offer.
(Prior Code, § 225.070)
§ 30.08 OATH.
   No person shall be employed or associated in any capacity in the city’s
Emergency Management Organization who advocates or has advocated a change by
force or violence in the constitutional form of the government of the United
States or in this state or the overthrow of any government in the United States
by force or violence, or has been convicted of or is under indictment or
information charging any subversive act against the United States. Each person
who is appointed to serve in the state’s Emergency Management Organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, take an oath, in writing, before
a person authorized to administer oaths in this state, which oath shall be
substantially as follows:
“I,                                          , do solemnly swear (or affirm)
that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States and the
Constitution of the State of Missouri, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take
this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion;
and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about
to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and
that during such a time as I am a member of the Otterville Emergency Management
Organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence.”
(Prior Code, § 225.080)
§ 30.09 OFFICE SPACE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in any city-owned or leased
building for the city’s Emergency Management Organization.
(Prior Code, § 225.090)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Conformance of city elections with state law
   
31.02   Declaration of candidacy; dates for filing
   
31.03   Declaration of candidacy; notice to public
   
31.04   Declaration of candidacy; form
   
31.05   Notice of elections
   
31.06   At-large elections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONFORMANCE OF CITY ELECTIONS WITH STATE LAW.
   All city elections shall be conducted and held in conformance with the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 115.
(Prior Code, § 105.010)
§ 31.02 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; DATES FOR FILING.
   (A)   Any person who desires to become a candidate for an elective city
office at the general city election shall file with the City Clerk, not prior
to the hour of 8:00 a.m., on the fifteenth Tuesday prior to, nor later than 5:
00 p.m., on the eleventh Tuesday prior to the next city municipal election, a
written declaration of his or her intent to become a candidate at said
election.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall keep a permanent record of the names of the
candidates, the offices for which they seek election, and the date of their
filing, and their names shall appear on the ballots in that order.
(Prior Code, § 105.030)
§ 31.03 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, on or before the fifteenth Tuesday prior to any
election at which city offices are to be filled by said election, notify the
general public of the opening filing date, the office or offices to be filled,
the proper place for filing, and the closing filing date of the election.
   (B)   Such notification may be accomplished by legal notice published in at
least one newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(Prior Code, § 105.040)
§ 31.04 DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY; FORM.
   The form of said written declaration of candidacy shall be substantially as
follows:
STATEMENT OF CANDIDACY
STATE OF MISSOURI      )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF COOPER      )
I,                                                  , being first duly sworn,
state that I reside at
                                                                 , City of
Otterville, County of Cooper, Missouri; that I am a qualified voter; that I do
hereby declare myself a candidate for the office of                        , to
be voted upon at the municipal election to be held on the first (1st) Tuesday
after the first (1st) Monday of April, 20        , and I meet all the
qualifications required of a candidate for said office, and I hereby request
that my name be printed upon the official ballot for said election for said
office, and state that I will serve as such officer, if elected.
                                 Signed:
                                                                                                   
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this           day of
                                     , 20         .
                                                                                                   
                                 City Clerk
                                 City of Otterville
(SEAL)
(Prior Code, § 105.050)
§ 31.05 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   In city elections, the City Clerk shall notify the County Clerk prior
to 5:00 p.m. on the tenth Tuesday prior to any city election except as noted in
RSMo. § 115.125.1. The notice shall be in writing, shall specify that the Board
of Aldermen is calling the election, the purpose of the election, the date of
the election, and shall include a certified copy of the legal notice to be
published, including the sample ballot.
   (B)   The written notice shall be executed on behalf of the Board of
Aldermen by the Mayor of the Board, and shall include the attestation of the
City Clerk and shall have affixed thereto the seal of the city. The notice and
any other information required by this section may, with the prior notification
to the election authority receiving the notice, be accepted by facsimile
transmission prior to 5:00 p.m. on the tenth Tuesday prior to the election,
provided that the original copy of the notice and a certified copy of the legal
notice to be published shall be received in the office of the election
authority within three business days from the date of the facsimile
transmission.
(Prior Code, § 105.060)
§ 31.06 AT-LARGE ELECTIONS.
   (A)   At-large elections. Election to the Board of Aldermen shall be at-
large. The seats of current Aldermen shall be filled at-large as soon as the
current term expires. Each year thereafter, one-half the Board of Aldermen
shall stand for election at-large for a two-year term.
   (B)   Wards abolished. The election wards are hereby abolished.
(Ord. 402, passed 11-10-2010)
CHAPTER 32: MAYOR AND BOARD OF ALDERMEN
Section
Generally
   
32.01   Aldermen, qualifications
   
32.02   Mayor, qualifications
   
32.03   Board to select an acting president, term
   
32.04   Acting president to perform duties of Mayor
   
32.05   Mayor and Board; duties
   
32.06   Mayor may sit in Board
   
32.07   Ordinances; procedure to enact
   
32.08   Bills must be signed; Mayor’s veto
   
32.09   Board to keep journal of proceedings
   
32.10   Board shall publish semi-annual statements
   
32.11   No money of city to be disbursed until statement is published
   
32.12   Board may compel attendance of witnesses; Mayor to administer oaths
   
32.13   Mayor to sign commissions
   
32.14   Mayor shall have the power to enforce laws
   
32.15   Mayor; communications to Board
   
32.16   Mayor may remit fine, grant pardon
Board of Meetings
   
32.30   Regular meetings
   
32.31   Special meetings
   
32.32   Quorum must be present
   
32.33   Absence from meetings; fine; dismissal
   
32.34   Chief of Police and city officials attendance at Aldermen meetings
GENERALLY
§ 32.01 ALDERMEN, QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be an Alderman unless he or she be at least 21 years of age,
a citizen of the United States, and an inhabitant and resident of the city for
one year next preceding his or her election, and a resident, at the time he or
she files and during the time he or she serves, of the ward from which he or
she is elected.
(Ord. 300, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 32.02 MAYOR, QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be Mayor unless he or she be at least 25 years of age, a
citizen of the United States, and a resident of the city at the time of and for
at least one year next preceding his or her election.
(Prior Code, § 110.020)
§ 32.03 BOARD TO SELECT AN ACTING PRESIDENT, TERM.
   The Board shall elect one of their own number who shall be styled “Acting
President of the Board of Aldermen” and who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Prior Code, § 110.030)
§ 32.04 ACTING PRESIDENT TO PERFORM DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   When any vacancy shall happen in the office of Mayor by death, resignation,
removal from the city, removal from office, refusal to qualify, or from any
other cause whatever, the Acting President of the Board of Aldermen shall, for
the time being, perform the duties of Mayor, with all the rights, privileges,
powers, and jurisdiction of the Mayor, until such vacancy be filled or such
disability be removed; or, in case of temporary absence, until the Mayor’s
return.
(Prior Code, § 110.040)
§ 32.05 MAYOR AND BOARD; DUTIES.
   The Mayor and Board of Aldermen of each city governed by this chapter shall
have the care, management, and control of the city and its finances, and shall
have power to enact and ordain any and all ordinances not repugnant to the
Constitution and laws of this state, and such as they shall deem expedient for
the good government of the city, the preservation of peace and good order, the
benefit of trade and commerce and the health of the inhabitants thereof, and
such other ordinances, rules, and regulations as may be deemed necessary to
carry such powers into effect, and to alter, modify, or repeal the same.
(Prior Code, § 110.050)
§ 32.06 MAYOR MAY SIT IN BOARD.
   The Mayor shall have a seat in and preside over the Board of Aldermen, but
shall not vote on any question except in case of a tie, nor shall he or she
preside or vote in cases when he or she is an interested party. He or she shall
exercise a general supervision over all the officers and affairs of the city,
and shall take care that the ordinances of the city, and the state laws
relating to such city, are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 110.060)
§ 32.07 ORDINANCES; PROCEDURE TO ENACT.
   The style of the ordinances of the city shall be: “Be it ordained by the
Board of Aldermen of the City of Otterville, as follows:” No ordinance shall be
passed except by bill, and no bill shall become an ordinance unless on its
final passage a majority of the members elected to the Board of Aldermen shall
vote for it, and the “ayes” and “nays” be entered on the journal. Every
proposed ordinance shall be introduced to the Board of Aldermen in writing and
shall be read by title or in full two times prior to passage, both readings may
occur at a single meeting of the Board of Aldermen. If the proposed ordinance
is read by title only, copies of the proposed ordinance shall be made available
for public inspection prior to the time the bill is under consideration by the
Board of Aldermen. No bill shall become an ordinance until it shall have been
signed by the Mayor or person exercising the duties of the Mayor’s office, or
shall have been passed over the Mayor’s veto, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.070)
§ 32.08 BILLS MUST BE SIGNED; MAYOR’S VETO.
   Every bill duly passed by the Board of Aldermen and presented to the Mayor
and by him or her approved shall become an ordinance, and every bill presented
as aforesaid, but returned with the Mayor’s objections thereto, shall stand
reconsidered. The Board of Aldermen shall cause the objections of the Mayor to
be entered at large upon the journal, and proceed at its convenience to
consider the question pending, which shall be in this form: “Shall the bill
pass, the objections of the Mayor thereto notwithstanding?” The vote on this
question shall be taken by “ayes” and “nays” and the names entered upon the
journal, and if two-thirds of all the members-elect shall vote in the
affirmative, the City Clerk shall certify the fact on the roll, and the bill
thus certified shall be deposited with the proper officer, and shall become an
ordinance in the same manner and with like effect as if it had received the
approval of the Mayor. The Mayor shall have power to sign or veto any ordinance
passed by the Board of Aldermen; provided, that should he or she neglect or
refuse to sign any ordinance and return the same with his or her objections, in
writing, at the next regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen, the same shall
become a law without his or her signature.
(Prior Code, § 110.080)
§ 32.09 BOARD TO KEEP JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall cause to be kept a journal of its proceedings,
and the “ayes” and “nays” shall be entered on any question at the request of
any two members. The Board of Aldermen may prescribe and enforce such rules as
it may find necessary for the expeditious transaction of its business.
(Prior Code, § 110.090)
§ 32.10 BOARD SHALL PUBLISH SEMI-ANNUAL STATEMENTS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall semi-annually each year, at times to be set by
the Board of Aldermen, make out and spread upon their records a full and
detailed account and statement of the receipts and expenditures and
indebtedness of the city for the half year ending with the last day of the
month immediately preceding the date of such report, which account and
statement shall be published in some newspaper in the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.100)
§ 32.11 NO MONEY OF CITY TO BE DISBURSED UNTIL STATEMENT IS PUBLISHED.
   In the event the financial statement of the city is not published as
required by §
32.10, the Treasurer of the city shall not pay out any money of the city on any
warrant or order of the Board of Aldermen after the end of the month in which
such financial statement should have been published until such time as such
financial statement is published. Any Treasurer violating the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 110.110)
§ 32.12 BOARD MAY COMPEL ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES; MAYOR TO ADMINISTER OATHS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall have power to compel the attendance of witnesses
and the production of papers and records relating to any subject under
consideration in which the interest of the city is involved, and shall have
power to call on the proper officers of the city, or of the county in which
such city is located, to execute such process. The officer making such service
shall be allowed to receive therefor such fees as are allowed by law in the
Circuit Court for similar services, to be paid by the city. The Mayor or Acting
President of the Board of Aldermen shall have power to administer oaths to
witnesses.
(Prior Code, § 110.120)
§ 32.13 MAYOR TO SIGN COMMISSIONS.
   The Mayor shall sign the commissions and appointments of all city officers
elected or appointed in the city, and shall approve all official bonds unless
otherwise prescribed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 110.130)
§ 32.14 MAYOR SHALL HAVE THE POWER TO ENFORCE LAWS.
   The Mayor shall be active and vigilant in enforcing all laws and ordinances
for the government of the city, and he or she shall cause all subordinate
officers to be dealt with promptly for any neglect or violation of duty; and he
or she is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the city over
18 years of age and under 50, to aid in enforcing the laws.
(Prior Code, § 110.140)
§ 32.15 MAYOR; COMMUNICATIONS TO BOARD.
   The Mayor shall, from time to time, communicate to the Board of Aldermen
such measures as may, in his or her opinion, tend to the improvement of the
finances, the police, health, security, ornament, comfort, and general
prosperity of the city.
(Prior Code, § 110.150)
§ 32.16 MAYOR MAY REMIT FINE, GRANT PARDON.
   The Mayor shall have power to remit fines and forfeitures, and to grant
reprieves and pardons for offenses arising under the ordinances of the city,
but this section shall not be so construed as to authorize the Mayor to remit
any costs which may have accrued to any officer of said city by reason of any
prosecution under the laws or ordinances of such city.
(Prior Code, § 110.160)
BOARD OF MEETINGS
§ 32.30 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Board of Aldermen shall meet in regular session at the City Hall at 6:00
p.m. on the first Wednesday of each month; provided however, that when such day
shall fall upon a legal holiday, the Board of Aldermen will set a date and time
for the regular meeting.
(Ord. 457, passed 11-11-2020)
§ 32.31 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any two members of the
Board by written request filed with the City Clerk, who shall thereupon prepare
a notice of such special meeting in conformance with RSMo. Chapter 610.
(Prior Code, § 110.180)
§ 32.32 QUORUM MUST BE PRESENT.
   At the hour appointed, the Mayor, or in his or her absence the Acting
President of the Board of Aldermen, shall call the Board to order, the Clerk
shall call the roll of members and announce whether or not a quorum is present.
A majority of the members elected to the Board of Aldermen shall constitute a
quorum. If a quorum not be present, a smaller number may lawfully adjourn the
meeting from day to day until a quorum is present.
(Prior Code, § 110.190) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 32.33 ABSENCE FROM MEETINGS; FINE; DISMISSAL.
   (A)   No member of the Board shall absent himself or herself from any
regular meeting, adjourned meeting, or special meeting, after due notice
thereof, unless he or she be sick and unable to attend or otherwise prevented
by circumstances beyond his or her control. Any member absenting himself or
herself without such excuse shall be fined not less than $1 nor more than $5,
unless such fine be remitted by a majority of the other members of the Board.
The fine imposed shall be assessed by motion duly seconded and carried by a
majority vote of the remaining members of the Board.
   (B)   Whenever any member shall absent himself or herself for three or more
successive meetings of the Board, whether regular, adjourned, or special
meetings, without reasonable excuse for such absence, the Board of Aldermen, by
a majority vote of all the members elected thereof, may expel such member and
declare his or her office vacant.
(Prior Code, § 110.200) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 32.34 CHIEF OF POLICE AND CITY OFFICIALS ATTENDANCE AT ALDERMEN MEETINGS.
   The Chief of Police and other city officials shall attend such meetings and
give such reports on their office as requested by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 110.210) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970; Ord. 315, passed 6-4-2002)
CHAPTER 33: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Elective officers; terms
   
33.002   Appointive officers
   
33.003   Removal of officers
   
33.004   Officers to be voters and residents; exceptions
   
33.005   Officers’ oath; bond
   
33.006   Salaries fixed by ordinance
   
33.007   Vacancies in certain offices, how filled
   
33.008   Powers and duties of officers to be prescribed by ordinance
City Clerk
   
33.020   Election and duties
City Treasurer
   
33.035   Treasurer duties
City Collector
   
33.050   Appointment
   
33.051   Duties generally
   
33.052   Collector to make annual report
   
33.053   Deputy Collector
City Attorney
   
33.065   Appointment; term
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
33.080   Officers to report receipts and expenditures
   
33.081   Mayor or Board may inspect books and records of officers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 ELECTIVE OFFICERS; TERMS.
   The following officers shall be elected by the qualified voters of the city
and shall hold office for the term of two years, except as provided in this
section, and until their successors are elected and qualified, to wit: Mayor
and Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 115.010) (Ord. 359, passed 5-6-2006)
§ 33.002 APPOINTIVE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of a majority of the members of the
Board of Aldermen, shall have the power to appoint a City Treasurer, City
Attorney, Chief of Police, City Assessor, and such other officers as he or she
may be authorized by ordinance to appoint, and if deemed for the best interest
of the city, the Mayor and Board of Aldermen may, by an ordinance, employ
special counsel to represent the city, either in the case of a vacancy in the
office of City Attorney or to assist the City Attorney, and pay reasonable
compensation therefor.
(Prior Code, § 115.020) (Ord. 359, passed 5-6-2006)
§ 33.003 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may, with the consent of a majority of all the members elected to
the Board of Aldermen, remove from office, for cause shown, any elective
officer of the city, such officer being first given opportunity, together with
his or her witnesses, to be heard before the Board of Aldermen sitting as a
Board of Impeachment. Any elective officer, including the Mayor, may in like
manner, for cause shown, be removed from office by a two-thirds vote of all
members elected to the Board of Aldermen, independently of the Mayor’s approval
or recommendation. The Mayor may, with the consent of a majority of all the
members elected to the Board of Aldermen, remove from office any appointive
officer of the city at will, and any such appointive officer may be so removed
by a two-thirds vote of all the members elected to the Board of Aldermen,
independently of the Mayor’s approval or recommendation, except the Chief of
Police. The Board of Aldermen may pass ordinances regulating the manner of
impeachments and removals.
(Prior Code, § 115.030)
§ 33.004 OFFICERS TO BE VOTERS AND RESIDENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   All officers elected to offices or appointed to fill a vacancy in any
elective office under the city government shall be voters under the laws and
Constitution of this state and the ordinances of the city, except that
appointed officers need not be voters of the city. No person shall be elected
or appointed to any office who shall at the time be in arrears for any unpaid
city taxes, or forfeiture or defalcation in office. All officers, except
appointed officers, shall be residents of the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.040)
§ 33.005 OFFICERS’ OATH; BOND.
   (A)   Every officer of the city and his or her assistants, and every
Alderman, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, shall take and
subscribe to an oath or affirmation before some court of record in the county,
or the City Clerk, that he or she possesses all the qualifications prescribed
for his or her office by law; that he or she will support the Constitution of
the United States and of the State of Missouri, the provisions of all laws of
this state affecting cities of this class, and the ordinances of the city, and
faithfully demean himself or herself while in office; which official oath or
affirmation shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Every officer of the city, when required by law or ordinance, shall,
within 15 days after his or her appointment or election, and before entering
upon the discharge of the duties of his or her office, give bond to the city in
such sum and with such sureties as may be designated by ordinance, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of his or her duty, and that he or she will pay
over all monies belonging to the city, as provided by law, that may come into
his or her hands. If any person elected or appointed to any office shall fail
to take and subscribe such oath or affirmation, or to give bond as herein
required, his or her office shall be deemed vacant. For any breach of condition
of any such bond, suit may be instituted thereon by the city, or by any person
in the name of the city to the use of such person.
(Prior Code, § 115.050)
§ 33.006 SALARIES FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   The Board of Aldermen shall fix the compensation of all the officers and
employees of the city by ordinance. The salary of an officer shall not be
changed during the time for which he or she was elected or appointed.
(Prior Code, § 115.060)
§ 33.007 VACANCIES IN CERTAIN OFFICES, HOW FILLED.
   If a vacancy occurs in any elective office, the Mayor or the person
exercising the duties of the Mayor shall cause a special meeting of the Board
of Aldermen to convene where a successor to the vacant office shall be selected
by appointment by the Mayor with the advice and consent of a majority of the
remaining members of the Board of Aldermen. If the vacancy is in the office of
Mayor, nominations of a successor may be made by any member of the Board of
Aldermen and selected with the consent of a majority of the members of the
Board of Aldermen. The Board of Aldermen may adopt procedures to fill vacancies
consistent with this section. The successor shall serve until the next regular
municipal election. If a vacancy occurs in any office not elective, the Mayor
shall appoint a suitable person to discharge the duties of such office until
the first regular meeting of the Board of Aldermen thereafter, at which time
such vacancy shall be permanently filled.
(Prior Code, § 115.070) (Ord. 301, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 33.008 POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS TO BE PRESCRIBED BY ORDINANCE.
   The duties, powers, and privileges of officers of every character in any way
connected with the city government, not herein defined, shall be prescribed by
ordinance; bonds may be required of any such officers for faithfulness in
office in all respects.
(Prior Code, § 115.080)
CITY CLERK
§ 33.020 ELECTION AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Aldermen shall elect a Clerk for such Board, to be known as
“the City Clerk”, whose duties and term of office shall be fixed by ordinance.
Among other things, the City Clerk shall keep a journal of the proceedings of
the Board of Aldermen. He or she shall safely and properly keep all the records
and papers belonging to the city which may be entrusted to his or her care; he
or she shall be the general accountant of the city; he or she is hereby
empowered to administer official oaths and oaths to persons certifying to
demands or claims against the city. The City Clerk shall serve at the pleasure
of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 115.090) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
CITY TREASURER
§ 33.035 TREASURER DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall receive and safely keep all monies, warrants, books,
bonds, and obligations entrusted to his or her care, and shall pay over all
monies, bonds, or other obligations of the city on warrants or orders, duly
drawn, passed, or ordered by the Board of Aldermen, and signed by the Mayor and
attested by the City Clerk, and having the seal of the city affixed thereto,
and not otherwise; and shall perform such other duties as may be required of
him or her by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 115.100) (Ord. 237, passed 10-6-1987)
CITY COLLECTOR
§ 33.050 APPOINTMENT.
    The City Collector shall be elected as set out in
Chapter 31.
(Prior Code, § 115.110)
§ 33.051 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by law or ordinance of this city,
the City Collector shall make an annual report to the Board of Aldermen stating
the amount collected by him or her for the preceding fiscal year, the amounts
due the city remaining uncollected, the names of the persons delinquent and the
reason for delinquency, such report to be given at the April meeting of the
Board of Aldermen in each year; countersign all licenses issued by the city; at
the April meeting of the Board of Aldermen each year present to the Board a
verified “Land and Lot Delinquent List” and “Personal Delinquent List”; collect
delinquent taxes due the city, by suit, seizure, or sale; on or before the
first Monday in March in each year, file with the County Collector a list of
delinquent lots and lands on which taxes due the city are unpaid; make a
monthly report to the Board of Aldermen of delinquent taxes collected; pay over
to the City Treasurer monthly all monies received by him or her; collect the
penalty on delinquent taxes on land as required by statute.
   (B)   In addition to the other duties imposed on him or her by the
Constitution and laws of the state and other ordinances of the city, prepare
the monthly statement of receipts and expenditures for the waterworks system;
shall collect all fees for and countersign all permits and licenses issued by
the city; and shall give his or her annual report to the Board as required by §
33.052.
   (C)   The Collector shall perform all the duties specified in this code and
shall perform such other duties as may be directed by the City Clerk and/or
Mayor.
   (D)   The City Collector shall receive as compensation for his or her
services a fee or percentage, as may be fixed by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 115.120) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970; Ord. 133B, passed 12-27-
1971)
§ 33.052 COLLECTOR TO MAKE ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Collector shall, annually, at such times as may be designated by
ordinance, make a detailed report to the Board of Aldermen, stating the various
monies collected by him or her during the year, and the amounts uncollected and
the names of the persons from which he or she failed to collect and the causes
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 115.130)
§ 33.053 DEPUTY COLLECTOR.
   The Mayor may appoint a Deputy Collector to be approved by the Board of
Aldermen, and when such Deputy Collector shall have taken and subscribed to the
oath provided by this code, he or she shall possess all the qualifications and
powers and be charged with the same duties as the Collector.
(Prior Code, § 115.140)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 33.065 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Aldermen, at
the first meeting after each annual city election, shall appoint a suitable
person as City Attorney who shall hold office until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified.
   (B)   No person shall be appointed to the office of City Attorney unless he
or she be a licensed and practicing attorney at law in this state.
(Prior Code, § 115.150)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 33.080 OFFICERS TO REPORT RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES.
   It shall be the duty of all the officers of the city to report annually to
the Board of Aldermen, such reports to embrace a full statement of the receipts
and expenditures of their respective offices, and such other matters as may be
required by the Board of Aldermen by ordinance, resolution, or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 115.160)
§ 33.081 MAYOR OR BOARD MAY INSPECT BOOKS AND RECORDS OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor or Board of Aldermen shall have power, as often as he, she, or
they may deem it necessary, to require any officer of the city to exhibit his
or her accounts or other papers or records, and to make report to the Board of
Aldermen, in writing, touching any matter relating to his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 115.170)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Federal old-age, survivors, disability, and health insurance
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
34.015   Purpose
   
34.016   Identification of red flags
   
34.017   Detection of red flags
   
34.018   Preventing and mitigating identify theft
   
34.019   Updating the program and the red flags
   
34.020   Program administration
Search Warrants
   
34.035   Definition; who may issue
   
34.036   Who may apply for warrant; contents of application
   
34.037   Hearing and procedure; contents of warrant; execution and return
   
34.038   When a search warrant shall be deemed invalid
Open Meetings and Records Policy
   
34.050   City to comply
   
34.051   Custodian of records designated
   
34.052   Closed records and votes
   
34.053   Public notice board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 FEDERAL OLD-AGE, SURVIVORS, DISABILITY, AND HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the city to
extend to all eligible employees and officials of said city who are not
excluded by law or by this section, and whether employed in connection with a
governmental or proprietary function of said city, the benefits of the system
of Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability, and Health Insurance as authorized
by the RSMo. §§ 105.300 through 105.445, as the same may be now and hereafter
in effect.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor and the City Clerk are hereby authorized and directed,
on behalf of this city, to prepare, execute, and submit to the state’s Office
of Administration, Social Security Unit, as state agency of the State of
Missouri, a plan and agreement for extending said benefits to said eligible
employees and officials of the city, in the form prepared by the state agency
and hereby approved and adopted by the Board of Aldermen of this city, which
plan and agreement are to become effective upon approval thereof by the state
agency, and are further authorized and directed to execute agreements and
modifications and amendments thereof with said state agency providing for the
extension of said benefits to said employees and officials as set forth in said
plan and agreement, as provided for in division (A) above, said plan and
agreement to provide that said extension of benefits is to be effective on
January 1, 1989.
      (2)   Commencing on the first pay period following the date of the
approval of the plan and agreement of this city by the state agency, there
shall be deducted from the wages of all employees and officials of the city, to
whom the benefits of said system of Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability, and
Health Insurance are extended, by virtue of the plan and agreement hereinbefore
provided for, the amount of each of said employees’ and officials’
contributions, as determined by the applicable state and federal laws and by
said plan and agreement, the aggregate amount of said deductions to be paid to
the Internal Revenue Service as required by federal law; provided however, that
from the first payment of wages made to each of said employees and officials
after the benefits of said system have been extended to such employees and
officials, there shall be deducted a sum equal to the amount which would have
been due and payable from each said employee and official had said extension of
benefits been provided and effective on January 1, 1989.
   (C)   Should the effective date of coverage as provided in division (B)
above be for retroactive periods prior to 1989, said deductions shall be paid
into the state’s OASDHI Trust Fund as created by RSMo. § 105.390, for benefits
extended under said system of Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability, and
Health Insurance as determined by applicable state and federal laws.
   (D)   Commencing on the first pay period following the date of the approval
of the plan and agreement of this city by the state agency, there is hereby
authorized to be appropriated from the General Fund of the city, and there is,
and shall be, appropriated the sum or sums of money necessary to pay the
contributions of the city, which shall be due and payable by virtue of the
extension of the benefits of the Federal Old-Age, Survivors, Disability, and
Health Insurance System to the eligible employees and officials of said city,
said sum or sums of money to be paid to the Internal Revenue Service as
required by federal law; provided however, that in making the first payment to
the Internal Revenue Service, after the benefits of said system have been
extended to such employees and officials, said first payment shall include a
sum equal to the amount which would have been due and payable had said
extension of benefits been provided and effective on January 1, 1989. The fund
from which said appropriation is made will, at all times, be sufficient to pay
the contributions of the city by this section directed to be paid to the
Internal Revenue Service.
   (E)   The city, from and after the approval of the plan and agreement of
this city by the state agency, shall fully comply with, and shall keep such
records, make such reports, and provide such methods of administration of said
plan and agreement as may be required by all applicable state and federal laws,
rules and regulations, now and hereafter in effect with respect to the
extension of the benefits of the Federal Old-Age Survivors, Disability, and
Health Insurance System to the employees and officials of this city. For the
purpose of administering said plan and agreement, the City Clerk shall be the
official who shall make all required reports, keep all records, and be
responsible for the administration of said plan and agreement on behalf of this
city, and any and all notices and communications from the state agency or the
Internal Revenue Service to this city with respect to said plan and agreement
shall be addressed to: City of Otterville, PO Box 58, Otterville, Missouri
65348.
(Prior Code, § 135.010) (Ord. 243, passed 12-6-1988)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 34.015 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city (the “utility”) has developed this identity theft prevention
program (“program”) pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) Red Flag
Rule, which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act of
2003, being 15 U.S.C. § 1681m(e), pursuant to 16 C.F.R. § 681.2. This program
is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with
the opening and maintenance of certain utility accounts. For purposes of this
program, IDENTITY THEFT is considered to be fraud committed using the
identifying information of another person.
   (B)   The ACCOUNTS, addressed by the program, are defined as:
      (1)   A continuing relationship the utility has with an individual
through an account the utility offers or maintains primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or transactions;
and
      (2)   Any other account the utility offers or maintains for which there
is a reasonable foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of
the utility from identity theft.
   (C)   This program was developed with oversight and approval of the Board of
Aldermen of the city. After consideration of the size and complexity of the
utility’s operations and account systems, and the nature and scope of the
utility’s activities, the Board of Aldermen of the city determined that this
program was appropriate for the city and therefore approved this program on
November 1, 2008.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.016 IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   A red flag is a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates
the possible existence of identity theft. In order to identify relevant red
flags, the utility considered risk factors such as the types of accounts that
it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open its accounts, the
methods it provides to access its accounts, and its previous experiences with
identity theft.
   (B)   The utility identified the following red flags, in each of the listed
categories.
      (1)   Notifications and warnings from consumer reporting agencies.
Possible red flags for this category include:
         (a)   A fraud or activity alert is included with a consumer report;
         (b)   Receiving a report or notice from a consumer reporting agency of
a credit freeze;
         (c)   Receiving a report of fraud with a consumer report; and
         (d)   Receiving indication from a consumer report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern or activity. (A utility will
likely only have a listing in this category if it reports to or obtains
information from consumer reporting agencies.)
      (2)   Suspicious documents. Possible red flags for this category include:
         (a)   Receiving documents that are provided for identification that
appear to be forged or altered;
         (b)   Receiving documentation on which a person’s photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the
documentation;
         (c)   Receiving other documentation with information that is not
consistent with existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature
on a check appears forged); and
         (d)   Receiving an application for service that appears to have been
altered or forged.
      (3)   Suspicious personal identifying information. Possible red flags for
this category include:
         (a)   A person’s identifying information is inconsistent with other
sources of information (such as an address not matching an address on a
consumer report or a Social Security number that was never issued);
         (b)   A person’s identifying information is inconsistent with other
information the customer provides (such as inconsistent Social Security numbers
or birth dates);
         (c)   A person’s identifying information is the same as shown on other
applications found to be fraudulent;
         (d)   A person’s identifying information is consistent with fraudulent
activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing address);
         (e)   A person’s Social Security number is the same as another
customer’s Social Security number;
         (f)   A person’s address or phone number is the same as that of
another person;
         (g)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying
information on an application when reminded to do so; and
         (h)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
      (4)   Unusual use of or suspicious activity related to an account.
Possible red flags for the category include:
         (a)   A change of address for an account followed by a request to
change the account holder’s name or add other parties;
         (b)   A new account is used in a manner consistent with fraud (such as
the customer failing to make the first payment, or making the initial payment
and no other payments);
         (c)   An account being used in a way that is not consistent with prior
use (such as late or no payments when the account has been timely in the past);
         (d)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
         (e)   The utility receives notice that a customer is not receiving his
or her paper statements;
         (f)   The utility receives notice that an account has unauthorized
activity; and
         (g)   Breach in the utility’s computer system.
      (5)   Notice regarding possible identity theft. Possible red flags for
this category include: the utility receives notices from a customer, an
identity theft victim, law enforcement, or any other person that has opened or
is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.017 DETECTION OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   In order to detect any of the red flags identified above with the
opening of a new account, utility personnel will take the following steps to
obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the account. Steps can
include:
      (1)   Requiring certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, Social Security number, driver’s license, or other identification;
      (2)   Verifying the customer’s identity, such as by copying and reviewing
a driver’s license or other identification card;
      (3)   Reviewing documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
      (4)   Independently contacting the customer.
   (B)   In order to detect any of the red flags identified above for an
existing account, utility personnel will take the following steps to monitor
transactions with an account: Steps can include:
      (1)   Verifying the identification of customers if they request
information (in person, via telephone, via facsimile, or via email);
      (2)   Verifying the validity of requests to change billing addresses; and
      (3)   Verifying changes in banking information given for billing and
payment purposes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.018 PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTIFY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event utility personnel detect any identified red flags, such
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag. Steps can include:
      (1)   Continuing to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contacting the customer;
      (3)   Changing any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Reopening an account with a new number;
      (5)   Not opening a new account;
      (6)   Closing an existing account;
      (7)   Notifying law enforcement;
      (8)   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances; or
      (9)   Notifying the Program Administrator (as defined below) for
determination of the appropriate step(s) to take.
   (B)   In order to further prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring
with respect to utility accounts, the utility will take the following steps
with respect to its internal operating procedures. These steps are not outlined
in the FTC’s Red Flag Rule, but possible steps may include:
      (1)   Providing a secure website or clear notice that a website is not
secure;
      (2)   Ensuring complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information, including documentation of such
destruction;
      (3)   Ensuring that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Requiring only the last four digits of Social Security numbers on
customer applications;
      (5)   Limiting access to accounts to only employees that require access;
      (6)   Prohibiting account information to be written on sticky pads or
note pads;
      (7)   Ensuring that computer screens are only visible to the employee
accessing the account; and
      (8)   Requiring customers to authenticate addresses and personal
information, rather than account representatives asking if the information is
correct.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.019 UPDATING THE PROGRAM AND THE RED FLAGS.
   This program will be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes in
risks to customers and the soundness of the utility from identity theft. At
least once per year, the Program Administrator will consider the utility’s
experiences with identity theft situation, changes in identity theft methods,
changes in identity theft detection and prevention methods, changes in types of
accounts the utility maintains, and changes in the utility’s business
arrangements with other entities. After considering these factors, the Program
Administrator will determine whether changes to the program, including the
listing of red flags, are warranted. If warranted, the Program Administrator
will present the Board of Aldermen with his or her recommended changes and the
Board of Aldermen of the city will make a determination of whether to accept,
modify, or reject those changes to the program.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 34.020 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight. The utility’s program will be overseen by a Program
Administrator. The Program Administrator shall be the City Clerk, or in the
absence of the City Clerk, some other designated employee of the city as
designated by the Board of Aldermen. The Program Administrator will be
responsible for the program’s administration, for ensuring appropriate training
of utility staff on the program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the
detection of red flags, and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity
theft, determining which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in
particular circumstances, reviewing and, if necessary, approving changes to the
program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports. Utility staff responsible for implementing
the program shall be trained either by or under the direction of the Program
Administrator in the detection of red flags, and the responsive steps to be
taken when a red flag is detected. Such training will be sufficient to
effectively implement the program.
   (C)   Service provider arrangements. The utility will take the following
steps to ensure the service provider performs its activity in accordance with
reasonable policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate
the risk of identity theft. These steps may include:
      (1)   Requiring, by contract, that service providers have such policies
and procedures in place; and
      (2)   Requiring, by contract, that service providers review the utility’s
program and report any red flags to the Program Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -)
SEARCH WARRANTS
§ 34.035 DEFINITION; WHO MAY ISSUE.
   (A)   An administrative search warrant is a written order of the Municipal
Judge commanding the search or inspection of any property, place, or thing, and
the seizure, photographing, copying, or recording of property or physical
conditions found thereon or therein, to determine or prove the existence of
violations of any ordinance or code section of the city relating to the use,
condition, or occupancy of property or structures located within the city, or
to enforce the provisions of any such ordinance or code section.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge, having original and exclusive jurisdiction to
determine violations against the ordinances of the municipality, may issue an
administrative search warrant when:
      (1)   The property or place to be searched or inspected or the thing to
be seized is located with the city at the time of the making of the
application; and
      (2)   The owner or occupant of the property or place to be searched or
inspected or the thing to be seized has refused to allow same after official
request by the city.
   (C)   Any such warrant shall be directed to the Chief of Police or any other
police officer of the city and shall be executed by the Chief of Police or said
police officer within the city limits and not elsewhere.
(Ord. 340, passed 3-5-2005)
§ 34.036 WHO MAY APPLY FOR WARRANT; CONTENTS OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any police officer or an attorney of the city may make application to
the Municipal Judge for the issuance of an administrative search warrant.
   (B)   The application shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State the time and date of the making of the application;
      (3)   Identify the property or places to be entered, searched, inspected,
or seized in sufficient detail and particularity that the officer executing the
warrant can readily ascertain it;
      (4)   State that the owner or occupant of the property or places to be
entered, searched, inspected, or seized has been requested to allow such action
and has refused to allow such action;
      (5)   State facts sufficient to show probable cause for the issuance of a
search warrant, as provided in §
34.037(A), to:
         (a)   Search or inspect for violations of an ordinance or code section
specified in the application; or
         (b)   Show that entry or seizure is authorized and necessary to
enforce an ordinance or code section specified in the application and that any
required due process has been afforded prior to the entry or seizure.
      (6)   Be verified by the oath or affirmation of the applicant; and
      (7)   Be signed by the applicant and filed in the Municipal Court.
   (C)   The application may be supplemented by a written affidavit verified by
oath or affirmation. Such affidavit shall be considered in determining whether
there is probable cause for the issuance of a search warrant and in filling out
any deficiencies in the description of the property or place to be searched or
inspected. Oral testimony shall not be considered.
(Ord. 340, passed 3-5-2005)
§ 34.037 HEARING AND PROCEDURE; CONTENTS OF WARRANT; EXECUTION AND RETURN.
   (A)   Hearing and procedure.
      (1)   The Municipal Judge shall hold a non-adversarial hearing to
determine whether probable cause exists to inspect or search for violations of
any ordinance or code section, or to enforce any such ordinance or code
section.
      (2)   In doing so, the Municipal Judge shall determine whether the action
to be taken by the city is reasonable in light of the facts stated. The
Municipal Judge shall consider the goals of the ordinance or code section
sought to be enforced and such other factors as may be appropriate, including,
but not limited to, the physical condition of the specified property, the age
and nature of the property, the condition of the area in which the property is
located, the known violation of any relevant ordinance or code section, and the
passage of time since the property’s last inspection. The standard for issuing
a warrant need not be limited to actual knowledge of an existing violation of a
city ordinance or code section.
      (3)   If it appears from the application and any supporting affidavit
that there is probable cause to inspect or search for violations of any city
ordinance or code section or to enforce any such ordinance or code section, a
search warrant shall immediately be issued.
      (4)   The warrant shall issue in the form of an original and two copies,
and the application, any supporting affidavit and one copy of the warrant as
issued shall be retained in the records of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   Contents of search warrant. The search warrant shall:
      (1)   Be in writing and in the name of the city;
      (2)   Be directed to any police officer in the city;
      (3)   State the time and date the warrant was issued;
      (4)   Identify the property or places to be searched, inspected, or
entered upon in sufficient detail and particularity that the officer executing
the warrant can readily ascertain it;
      (5)   Command that the described property or places be searched or
entered upon, and that any evidence of any city ordinance violations found
therein or thereon, or any property seized pursuant thereto, or a description
of such property seized, be returned, within ten days after filing of the
application, to the Municipal Judge who issued the warrant, to be dealt with
according to law; and
      (6)   Be signed by the judge, with his or her title of office indicated.
   (C)   Execution and return. A search warrant issued under this subchapter
shall be executed only by a city police officer; provided, however, that one or
more designated city officials may accompany the officer, and the warrant shall
be executed in the following manner.
      (1)   The warrant shall be executed by conducting the search, inspection,
entry, or seizure as commanded and shall be executed as soon as practicable and
in a reasonable manner.
      (2)   The officer shall give the owner or occupant of the property
searched, inspected, or entered upon a copy of the warrant.
      (3)   If any property is seized incident to the search:
         (a)   The officer shall give the person from whose possession it was
taken, if the person is present, an itemized receipt for the property taken. If
no such person is present, the officer shall leave the receipt at the site of
the search in a conspicuous place;
         (b)   A copy of the itemized receipt of any property taken shall be
delivered to an attorney for the city within two working days of the search;
and
         (c)   The disposition of property seized pursuant to a search warrant
under this section shall be in accordance with an applicable city ordinance or
code section, but in the absence of same, then with RSMo. § 542.301.
      (4)   The officer may summon as many persons as he or she deems necessary
to assist him or her in executing the warrant, and such persons shall not be
held liable as a result of any illegality of the search and seizure.
      (5)   An officer making a search pursuant to an invalid warrant, the
invalidity of which is not apparent on its face, may use such force as he or
she would be justified in using if the warrant were valid.
      (6)   A search warrant shall expire if it is not executed and the
required return made within ten days after the date of the making of the
application.
   (D)   Return of warrant.
      (1)   After execution of the search warrant, the warrant, with a return
thereon signed by the officer making the search, shall be delivered to the
Municipal Court.
      (2)   The return shall show the date and manner of execution and the name
of the possessor and of the owner, when not the same person, if known, of the
property or places searched or seized.
      (3)   The return shall be accompanied by any photographs, copies, or
recordings made, and by any property seized, along with a copy of the itemized
receipt of such property required by this section; provided, however, that
seized property may be disposed of as provided herein, and in such a case a
description of the property seized shall accompany the return.
      (4)   The Court Clerk, upon request, shall deliver a copy of the return
to the possessor and the owner, when not the same person, of the property
searched or seized.
(Ord. 340, passed 3-5-2005)
§ 34.038 WHEN A SEARCH WARRANT SHALL BE DEEMED INVALID.
   A search warrant shall be deemed invalid when:
   (A)   If it was not issued by the Municipal Judge;
   (B)   If it was issued without a written application having been filed and
verified;
   (C)   If it was issued without sufficient probable cause in light of the
goals of the subchapter to be enforced and such other factors as provided in §
34.037(A)(2);
   (D)   If it was not issued with respect to property or places in the city;
   (E)   If it does not describe the property or places to be searched,
inspected, entered upon, or seized with sufficient certainty;
   (F)   If it is not signed by the judge who issued it; or
   (G)   If it was not executed and the required return made within ten days
after the date of the making of the application.
(Ord. 340, passed 3-5-2005)
OPEN MEETINGS AND RECORDS POLICY
§ 34.050 CITY TO COMPLY.
   The city, and all elected officials and staff, will comply with the
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 610, as amended from time to time.
§ 34.051 CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS DESIGNATED.
   The City Clerk is hereby designated as the custodian of records for the
city. Such designation does not mean that the City Clerk will necessarily have
all the records in his or her possession, but simply is an indication to which
requests for copies of records and information regarding the city government
shall be directed. Requests for records made to persons other than the City
Clerk shall not be considered to be requests that are made pursuant to the
Missouri Sunshine Law, being RSMo. Chapter 610. Nonetheless, any official or
employee of the city who receives a request is directed to inform the City
Clerk of the request in a timely fashion, so that a response may be made to the
request.
§ 34.052 CLOSED RECORDS AND VOTES.
   All records of the city which are permitted to be closed records by reason
of the Sunshine Law or by any other state law or by any statute or regulation
of the United States Government shall be maintained as closed records. No such
closed record shall be released to any person who is not a part of the city
government, except that the city’s auditor may see such records as are
reasonably necessary to prepare an audit report as requested by the city and
the city’s attorney may see such records as are reasonably necessary to
represent the city. Requests that closed records be opened to public inspection
will be considered on a case-by-case basis by the City Board.
§ 34.053 PUBLIC NOTICE BOARD.
   The custodian of records shall establish a fixed place where all public
notices and agenda will be posted. This notice board should be in a place that
is accessible to members of the public at times when the City Hall is open and
(if possible) should be lighted and available for public inspection even at
times when the City Hall is closed. A window or glass door at the entrance to
the City Hall may be used as the notice board, provided such notices are placed
in such a fashion that they can be read by persons on the outside of the City
Hall.
CHAPTER 35: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
35.01   Designation of municipal court
   
35.02   Court costs
   
35.03   Bail or appearance court bonds, failure to appear, payment of fines,
and costs in lieu of appearance
§ 35.01 DESIGNATION OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   The 18th Judicial Circuit of Cooper County, Missouri is hereby designated as
the Municipal Court of the city.
§ 35.02 COURT COSTS.
   (A)   Court costs. In addition to any fine that may be imposed by the judge,
there shall be assessed as costs in all cases where the defendant pleads
guilty, or is found guilty, the following:
      (1)   Clerk fee, $15;
(RSMo. § 488.012(6))
      (2)   Statewide court automation fee, $7;
(RSMo. § 488.027)
      (3)   Law Enforcement Training Fund, $2;
(RSMo. § 488.5336)
      (4)   Peace Officers Standards and Training Fund, $1; and
(RSMo. § 488.5335)
      (5)   Crime Victim’s Compensation Fund.
(RSMo. § 488.5339)
   (B)   Trial de novo application. A trial de novo application shall be $30.
(RSMo. § 488.020)
   (C)   Additional costs in specific cases.
      (1)   Costs for issuance of a warrant; commitment, summons, subpoena,
continuance, or other process or proceeding as provided before the Associate
Circuit Judge in criminal cases in the 18th Judicial Circuit;
      (2)   Apprehension and confinement costs shall be the actual costs
assessed against the city by the County Sheriff;
      (3)   The actual expense incurred in any other confinement facility; and/
or
      (4)   Mileage in the same amount as authorized for the sheriff for each
mile or fraction thereof an officer must travel (round-trip) in order to serve
any warrant, commitment, or order of the court.
         (a)   For violations of city ordinances involving alcohol or drug-
related traffic offenses, the court may, in addition to the imposition of any
penalties provided by law, order the convicted person to reimburse the city or
sheriff’s department which made the arrest for the costs associated with such
arrest as provided in RSMo. § 488.5334. Such costs shall include the reasonable
cost of making the arrest, including the cost of any chemical test made under
RSMo. Chapter 577, to determine the alcohol or drug content of the person’s
blood, and the costs of processing, charging, booking, and holding such person
in custody.
         (b)   The city or sheriff may establish a schedule of such costs;
however, the court may order the costs reduced if it determines that the costs
are excessive.
   (D)   Court costs assessment. The costs of any action may be assessed
against the prosecuting witness and a judgment entered against the witness
ordering the witness to pay the same and that the witness be committed until
the costs are paid in any case where the Municipal Judge finds that the
prosecution commenced vexatiously or without probable cause or, in such case
when the prosecuting witness fails to appear without good cause, or upon
appearing, refuses to testify on other constitutional grounds.
§ 35.03 BAIL OR APPEARANCE COURT BONDS, FAILURE TO APPEAR, PAYMENT OF FINES,
AND COSTS IN LIEU OF APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Court bonds.
      (1)   Any person arrested for the violation, failure, neglect, or refusal
to comply with any provision, regulation, or requirement of any ordinance may
be admitted to bail by executing a bail bond to the city with good and
sufficient security to be approved by the judge, or in his or her absence or
inaccessibility, by the Clerk of the Court, in the amount of not less than $2
and not more than $500, conditioned that such person shall appear upon the day
named therein (no later than 30 days from the date of the bond), before the
Court and await the trial upon the charge against him or her.
      (2)   Every bail bond shall be filed forthwith with the Clerk of the
Court by the officer taking the bond, provided that no attorney, police
officer, or any officer of the city, whether elected or appointed, shall be
taken as security upon any bail provided for in this chapter.
      (3)   In lieu of sureties on the bond, the judge or in the judge’s
absence or inaccessibility, the Clerk of the Court, may permit the posting of a
cash bond, and the Chief of Police or any officer in charge of the Police
Department shall state on the bail bond the receipt of the cash deposit.
      (4)   The city shall in no manner be responsible to any depositor of a
cash bail bond. However, the person receiving the cash deposit shall be
prosecuted by the City Attorney or other proper officer for failure to account
for and pay over the deposit.
   (B)   Failure of defendant to appear.
      (1)   If a defendant giving a bail bond on cash bond shall fail to appear
when and where the case is called in the court, the judge may order the
defendant to be apprehended and brought before him or her, or the judge may
render a judgment or forfeiture for the full amount of the bond or deposit at
which time the bond or deposit shall be forfeited.
      (2)   If a bail bond has been given, the amount of the judgment thereon
shall be collected from the defendant and his or her sureties according to law,
including the issuance of execution.
         (a)   If a cash deposit has been made, and the deposit is declared
forfeited, the deposit shall at once be delivered to the Chief of Police, who
shall make an entry of its receipt as part of the record of the case and shall
hold the money for four days, at the end of which the Chief of Police shall
deliver the money to the City Clerk.
         (b)   The judge may, for good cause, set aside the forfeiture at any
time within four days from the date of forfeiture.
   (C)   Payment of standard fine and costs in lieu of court appearance. Except
for those cases as designated by the Municipal Court that require the appearing
in court by the defendant or for any other offense that the officer who has
written the citation indicates that the defendant must appear in court, a
defendant charged with a municipal ordinance violation may pay the standard
fine and costs, as approved by the judge, in lieu of a court appearance,
provided that the payment is made to the Court Clerk prior to the scheduled
court date.
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION, FINANCE, AND PURCHASING
Section
Fiscal Year
   
36.001   Fiscal year established
Budget
   
36.015   Budget; when
   
36.016   Budget required; contents; expenditures not to exceed revenues
   
36.017   Budget Officer
   
36.018   Board of Aldermen may revise budget, limits; approval
   
36.019   Increase of expenditure over budgeted amount to be made only on formal
resolution
Levy of Taxes
   
36.030   Board to provide for levy and collection of taxes; fix penalties
   
36.031   Board to fix rate of levy
   
36.032   Assessment; method of
   
36.033   Preparation of tax
   
36.034   Taxes delinquent; when
Purchasing
   
36.045   Expenditures in excess of $1,000
   
36.046   Expenditures for services or labor
   
36.047   Contracts may be entered into
   
36.048   Notice for bids
   
36.049   Bids to be sealed
   
36.050   Claims to be made in writing
   
36.051   Violations
   
36.052   Power of Board to approve payment over committee
Sales Tax
   
36.065   City sales tax
 
   
36.999   Penalty
FISCAL YEAR
§ 36.001 FISCAL YEAR ESTABLISHED.
   The fiscal year for the city shall begin January and end December of each
year and all city budgets, audits, and other statutory requirements shall be
prepared on a fiscal year, and all required matters concerning same be required
to use such dates for those statutory and other necessary purposes.
(Prior Code, § 130.010)
BUDGET
§ 36.015 BUDGET; WHEN.
   Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the Mayor, City Clerk, City
Collector, and Chief of Police shall submit a detailed estimate of the expenses
to be incurred by them in performing the duties of their office and each
committee shall prepare an estimate of its expenses to be incurred in the
operation of its department for the following year and submit same to the
Finance, Taxes, Claims, and Supplies Committee so that it can prepare the
budget hereinafter required of it to be submitted to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 130.015) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.016 BUDGET REQUIRED; CONTENTS; EXPENDITURES NOT TO EXCEED REVENUES.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, a budget for the city
shall be prepared, and the same will be presented to and approved by the Board
of Aldermen.
   (B)   The annual budget shall present a complete financial plan for the
ensuing fiscal year, and shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   A budget message describing the important features of the budget
and major changes from the preceding year;
      (2)   Estimated revenues to be received from all sources for the budget
year, with a comparative statement of actual or estimated revenues for the two
years next preceding, itemized by year, fund, and source;
      (3)   Proposed expenditures for each department, office, commission, and
other classification for the budget year, together with a comparative statement
of actual or estimated expenditures for the two years next preceding, itemized
by year, fund, activity, and object;
      (4)   The amount required for the payment of interest, amortization, and
redemption charges on the debt of the city; and
      (5)   A general budget summary.
   (C)   In no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed
the estimated revenues to be received plus any unencumbered balance or less any
deficit estimated for the beginning of the budget year; provided, that nothing
herein shall be construed as requiring the city to use any cash balance as
current revenue or to change from a cash basis of financing its expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 130.020)
§ 36.017 BUDGET OFFICER.
   (A)   The budget shall be prepared under the direction of a Budget Officer.
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the Budget Officer shall be
designated by the Board of Aldermen of the city. All officers and employees
shall cooperate with and provide to the Budget Officer such information and
such records as he or she shall require in developing the budget. The Budget
Officer shall review all the expenditure requests and revenue estimates, after
which he or she shall prepare the proposed budget as defined herein.
   (B)   After the Budget Officer has prepared the proposed budget, he or she
shall submit it, along with such supporting schedules, exhibits, and other
explanatory material as may be necessary for the proper understanding of the
financial needs and position of the city to the Board of Aldermen. He or she
shall submit at the same time complete drafts of such orders, motions,
resolutions, or ordinances as may be required to authorize the proposed
expenditures and produce the revenues necessary to balance the proposed budget.
(Prior Code, § 130.030)
§ 36.018 BOARD OF ALDERMEN MAY REVISE BUDGET, LIMITS; APPROVAL.
   The Board of Aldermen may revise, alter, increase, or decrease the items
contained in the proposed budget, subject to such limitations as may be
provided by law; provided, that in no event shall the total authorized
expenditures from any fund exceed the estimated revenues to be received plus
any unencumbered balance or less any deficit estimated for the beginning of the
budget year. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Aldermen shall,
before the beginning of the fiscal year, approve the budget and approve or
adopt such orders, motions, resolutions, or ordinances as may be required to
authorize the budgeted expenditures and produce the revenues estimated in the
budget.
(Prior Code, § 130.040)
§ 36.019 INCREASE OF EXPENDITURE OVER BUDGETED AMOUNT TO BE MADE ONLY ON FORMAL
RESOLUTION.
   After the city has approved the budget for any year and has approved or
adopted the orders, motions, resolutions, or ordinances required to authorize
the expenditures proposed in the budget, the city shall not increase the total
amount authorized for expenditure from any fund, unless the Board of Aldermen
adopts a resolution setting forth the facts and reasons making the increase
necessary and approves or adopts an order, motion, resolution, or ordinance to
authorize the expenditures.
(Prior Code, § 130.050)
LEVY OF TAXES
§ 36.030 BOARD TO PROVIDE FOR LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES; FIX PENALTIES.
   The Board of Aldermen shall, from time to time, provide by ordinance for the
levy and collection of all taxes, licenses, wharfage, and other duties not
herein enumerated, and for neglect or refusal to pay the same, shall fix such
penalties as are now or may hereafter be authorized by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 130.060)
§ 36.031 BOARD TO FIX RATE OF LEVY.
   The Board of Aldermen shall, within a reasonable time after the Assessor’s
books of each year are returned, ascertain the amount of money to be raised
thereon for general and other purposes, and fix the annual rate of levy
therefor by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 130.070)
§ 36.032 ASSESSMENT; METHOD OF.
   In the absence of a City Assessor, and until such City Assessor is duly
appointed and qualified, it shall be the duty of the Mayor of the city to
procure from the County Clerk, on or before October 1 of each year, a certified
abstract from his or her assessment books of all property within the corporate
limits of the city made taxable by law for state purposes, and the assessed
valuation thereof as agreed upon by the Board of Equalization, which abstract
shall be immediately transmitted to the Board of Aldermen, and it shall be the
duty of the Board of Aldermen to establish by ordinance the rate of taxes for
the year.
(Prior Code, § 130.080)
§ 36.033 PREPARATION OF TAX.
   The city contracts with the county to assess and collect taxes.
(Prior Code, § 130.090)
§ 36.034 TAXES DELINQUENT; WHEN.
   On January 1 of each year, all unpaid city taxes shall become delinquent and
the taxes on real estate are hereby made a lien thereon; and all such
delinquent taxes shall bear interest thereon at the rate of 2% per month from
the time they become delinquent, not to exceed 18% per year, until paid; and
shall also be subject to the same fees, penalties, commissions, and charges as
provided by law of the state for delinquent state and county taxes, and shall
be collected from the property owners and the enforcement of all taxes,
penalties, fees, commissions, and charges authorized by law and provided for
herein to be paid by property owners shall be made in the same manner and under
the same rules and regulations as are or may be provided by law for the
collection and enforcement of the payment of state and county taxes, including
fees, penalties, commissions, and other charges.
(Prior Code, § 130.100)
PURCHASING
§ 36.045 EXPENDITURES IN EXCESS OF $1,000.
   Neither the Mayor, City Clerk, City Collector, Chief of Police, or other
city official and no committee shall incur any indebtedness in the
administration of the business of its department in excess of $1,000 nor cause
any expenditure of funds of the city or its departments to be made in excess of
$1,000 on any one project without first having received the express approval of
the Board of Aldermen to do so.
(Prior Code, § 130.110) (Ord. 325, passed 11-1-2003)
§ 36.046 EXPENDITURES FOR SERVICES OR LABOR.
   (A)   Neither the Mayor, City Clerk, City Collector, Chief of Police, or
other city official shall hire any labor or services of anyone for or on behalf
of the city without the express approval of the Board of Aldermen and no
committee shall hire any labor or employ services of anyone to carry out the
work of its department or assigned to it by the Board of Aldermen, where the
compensation to be paid for the work, services, or project is in excess of
$1,000, without express approval of the Board of Aldermen. The Board shall show
such approval and fix the compensation to be paid and the terms of employment
by motion duly seconded and carried and recorded in the minutes of the meeting
at which such approval is given.
   (B)   Where a committee hires labor or employs services where the
compensation to be paid does not exceed $1,000, or where a committee has
received approval of the Board of Aldermen to hire labor or employ services,
such committee shall give to the person, firm, or corporation hired or employed
a requisition showing the date of hiring or employment, the work or services to
be performed, the compensation to be paid or the hourly rate to be paid and any
other terms of the employment. Such requisition of the committee shall be
initialed on all copies by the person or persons, firm, or organization hired
or employed and by a member of the committee issuing the requisition.
   (C)   The original and copies of the requisition shall also be signed and
distributed as required of requisitions for purchases as hereinafter provided.
Where the Board of Aldermen approves a request of the Mayor, City Clerk, City
Collector, Chief of Police, or other city official for the hiring of labor or
employment of services, which request shall be in writing addressed to the
Board of Aldermen, such requisition shall be issued by the City Clerk
containing the same information as required for the requisition of a committee,
shall be signed by the City Clerk, and distributed as required of requisitions
for purchases as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 130.120) (Ord. 325, passed 11-1-2003)
§ 36.047 CONTRACTS MAY BE ENTERED INTO.
   Nothing herein provided or required shall prevent the Board, on proper
motion to do so, approved by a majority vote of the Board, from entering into a
written contract for the performance of work and furnishing of materials, or
the purchase of supplies, machinery, tools, or equipment, with the lowest and
best bidder therefor after not less than five days’ written notice has been
given to the public of the fact that the Board will receive bids for the
performance of services, of such work and furnishing of such materials or the
purchase of supplies, machinery, tools, and equipment on a day certain to be
named.
(Prior Code, § 130.170) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.048 NOTICE FOR BIDS.
   Where the Board or a committee herein appointed desires to receive bids for
the performance of services or work or both and the furnishing of materials or
for the purchase of supplies, machinery, tools, and equipment, a written notice
shall be given by handbill posted in not less than five public places in the
city and may also be mailed to prospective bidders known to the Board or
committee. Such notice shall state the work to be performed and materials to be
furnished or the supplies, machinery, tools, or equipment to be purchased,
shall state the city official with whom such bid shall be filed, and the hour
of the day beyond which bids will not be accepted for filing.
(Prior Code, § 130.180) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.049 BIDS TO BE SEALED.
   All bids shall be sealed and opened by the committee or Board at the next
meeting after they are received.
(Prior Code, § 130.190) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.050 CLAIMS TO BE MADE IN WRITING.
   All liquidated and unliquidated claims, demands, and accounts on and with
the city shall be made in writing and filed with the City Clerk who shall
forthwith submit same to the Chairperson of the Finance Committee for
examination and recommendation by said Committee for payment or rejection by
the Board at the next meeting of the Board after receipt of such claim, demand,
or account.
(Prior Code, § 130.200) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.051 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city to make or
attempt to make any purchase or employ or attempt to employ any labor or
services for and in behalf of the city, except by duly issued requisition or
approved contract or approval of the Board of Aldermen as hereinabove provided.
(Prior Code, § 130.210) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 36.052 POWER OF BOARD TO APPROVE PAYMENT OVER COMMITTEE.
   If the Finance, Taxes, Claims, and Supplies Committee fails or refuses to
approve for payment any account, claim, or demand properly filed with the City
Clerk and legally due or refuses to approve any requisition, said account,
claim, or demand or requisition may be called up for consideration by the Board
on motion duly seconded of any member of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 130.230) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
SALES TAX
§ 36.065 CITY SALES TAX.
   A city sales tax, at the rate of 1% on the receipts from the sale at retail
of all tangible personal property or taxable services at retail within the
city, is hereby imposed upon all sellers within the city for the privilege of
engaging in the business of selling tangible personal property or rendering
taxable services at retail, to the extent and in the manner provided by RSMo.
§§ 144.010 to 144.525, and the rules and regulations of the state’s Director of
Revenue issued pursuant thereto. Exception to this tax is the sales tax on all
electricity, water, gas propane, fuel oil, and telephone service furnished
within the city limits, whether a domestic or business establishment.
(Prior Code, § 130.240)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any officer or employee of the city violating the provisions of §
36.051 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in the sum of not less than $5 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 130.210) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
CHAPTER 37: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
37.01   Chief of Police; appointment; qualifications
   
37.02   Size of police force; powers
   
37.03   City may enter into agreement
   
37.04   Excessive force by law enforcement officer
 
   
37.99   Penalty
§ 37.01 CHIEF OF POLICE; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Mayor, with the approval of a majority of the members of the Board of
Aldermen, shall appoint a Chief of Police, who shall perform all duties
required of the Marshal by law and any other police officers found by the Board
of Aldermen to be necessary for the good government of the city. The Chief of
Police shall be 21 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 200.010)
§ 37.02 SIZE OF POLICE FORCE; POWERS.
   The police of the city may be appointed in such numbers, for such times, and
in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance. They shall have power to
serve and execute all warrants, subpoenas, writs, or other process, and to make
arrests in the same manner as the Chief of Police. They may exercise such
powers in areas leased or owned by the municipality outside of the boundaries
of such municipality. The Chief of Police and police officers shall be
conservators of the peace, and shall be active and vigilant in the preservation
of good order within the city.
(Prior Code, § 200.020)
§ 37.03 CITY MAY ENTER INTO AGREEMENT.
   The Board of Aldermen of the city may, by ordinance, enter into a contract
or agreement with any other political subdivision for the provision of police
services by one political subdivision to another on request, as provided for in
RSMo. § 70.815. The terms POLICE, POLICE OFFICERS, and POLICE DEPARTMENT as
used herein shall refer to law enforcement officers of the contracting entity.
(Prior Code, § 200.030)
§ 37.04 EXCESSIVE FORCE BY LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The city hereby adopts and will enforce this policy prohibiting the use of
excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any
individual engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations. The city also
prohibits the physical barring of any entrance or exit to such a facility and
will enforce all applicable state laws regarding same.
(Prior Code, § 200.040)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §
37.04 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation.
      (2)   Any person guilty of violating §
37.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
37.04 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such.
(Prior Code, § 200.040)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Solid waste storage
   
50.03   Collection of solid waste
   
50.04   Transportation of solid waste
   
50.05   Disposal of solid waste
   
50.06   Permits
   
50.07   Rules and regulations
   
50.08   Prohibited practices
   
50.09   Bonds
   
50.10   Service charges
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED INCINERATOR. An incinerator which complies with all current
regulations of the responsible local and state air pollution control agencies.
   BULKY RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of combustible and/or
non-combustible waste materials from dwelling units, commercial, industrial,
institutional, or agricultural establishments which are either too large or too
heavy to be safely and conveniently loaded in solid waste transportation
vehicles by solid waste collectors, with the equipment available therefor.
   CITY. The City of Otterville, Missouri.
   COLLECTION. Removal of solid waste from its place of storage to the
transportation vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. All solid waste generated from a source other than a
dwelling unit.
   CONTRACTOR. Such person, firm, or corporation as may be contracted with to
provide solid waste transportation and disposal for the city.
   CURBSIDE. A location adjacent to and not more than five feet from any
street.
   DEMOLITION AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste materials from the construction or
destruction of residential, industrial, or commercial structures.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the solid waste management program of the city, or
his or her authorized representative.
   DISPOSABLE SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Disposable plastic or paper sacks with a
capacity of 20 to 39 gallons, or if specifically designated for storage of
solid waste, a maximum of 55 gallons.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a structure, and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or are intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. Units of multiple
housing facilities may be billed as DWELLING UNITS upon request by the owner of
said dwelling units.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving, or consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTES. Any waste or combination of wastes, as determined by the
commission
by rules and regulations, which, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause or significantly
contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible,
or incapacitating reversible, illness, or pose a present or potential threat to
the health of humans or the environment.
   MAJOR APPLIANCES. Clothes washers and dryers, water heaters, trash
compactors, dishwashers, microwave ovens, conventional ovens, ranges, stoves,
wood stoves, air-conditioners, refrigerators, and freezers.
   MULTIPLE HOUSING FACILITY. A housing facility containing more than one
dwelling unit under one roof.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, shall
be in actual possession of any dwelling unit or of any other improved real
property, either as owner or as a tenant.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, association, or
corporation. As applied to partnerships or associations, the word includes the
partners or members thereof; and as applied to corporations, it includes the
officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible for the act referred
to.
   PROCESSING. Incinerating, composting, baling, shredding, salvaging,
compacting, and other processes whereby solid waste characteristics are
modified or solid waste quantity is reduced.
   PROHIBITED ITEMS. Items which are eliminated by state law from being
disposed of in a solid waste disposal area, including, but not limited to,
major appliances, waste oil, lead acid batteries, waste tires, and the like as
the same may be now or hereafter defined by state law.
   REFUSE. Solid waste.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste resulting from the maintenance and
operation of dwelling units.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, and other discarded materials including, but
not limited to, solid and semi-solid waste materials resulting from industrial,
commercial, agricultural, governmental, and domestic activities, but does not
include hazardous waste as defined in RSMo. §§ 260.360 to 260.432, recovered
materials, overburden, rock, tailings, matte, slag, or other waste material
resulting from mining, milling, or smelting. SOLID WASTE does not include YARD
WASTE as defined herein.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Receptacle used by any person to store solid waste
during the interval between solid waste collections.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL. The process of discarding or getting rid of unwanted
material. In particular, the final disposition of solid waste by people.
   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT. The entire solid waste system of storage,
collection, transportation, processing, and disposal.
   STORAGE. Keeping, maintaining, or storing solid waste from the time of its
production until the time of its collection.
   TRANSPORTATION. The transporting of solid waste from the place of collection
or processing to a solid waste processing facility or solid waste disposal
area.
   YARD WASTES. Leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden vegetation, and
Christmas trees. The term does not include stumps, roots, or shrubs with intact
root balls.
(Prior Code, § 230.010) (Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974)
§ 50.02 SOLID WASTE STORAGE.
   (A)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial or business, industrial, or agricultural establishment producing
solid waste within the corporate limits of the city, shall provide sufficient
and adequate containers for the storage of all solid waste, except bulky
rubbish and demolition and construction waste, to serve each such dwelling unit
and/or establishment, and to maintain such solid waste containers at all times
in good repair.
   (B)   The occupant of every dwelling unit and of every institutional,
commercial, business, industrial, or agricultural establishment shall place all
solid waste to be collected in proper solid waste containers and shall maintain
such solid waste containers and the area surrounding them in a clean, neat, and
sanitary condition at all times. Accumulation of waste in suitable containers
shall not be stored upon any site in the city for a period longer than ten
days.
   (C)   Residential solid waste shall be stored in containers of not more than
39 gallons nor less than 20 gallons in nominal capacity, except that
residential solid waste may be stored in trash bags of adequate strength in a
size not to exceed 55 gallons. All containers, including bags, shall be
leakproof and waterproof, fly-tight, and properly covered, tied, or enclosed,
except when depositing waste therein, or removing the contents thereof.
Containers other than bags shall have handles, bails, or other suitable lifting
devices or features. Containers other than bags shall be of a type originally
manufactured for residential solid waste, with tapered sides for easy emptying.
They shall be of light weight and sturdy construction. The weight of any
individual container, including bags and its contents, shall not exceed 75
pounds. Galvanized metal containers or rubber, fiberglass, or plastic
containers which do not become brittle in cold weather may be used in addition
to bags. Disposable solid waste containers with suitable frames or containers
as approved by the city may also be used for storage of residential solid
waste. Galvanized metal containers, or rubber, fiberglass, or plastic
containers with suitable frames or containers as approved by the city may also
be used for storage of residential solid waste.
   (D)   Commercial solid waste shall be stored in solid waste containers as
approved by the Board. The containers shall be waterproof, leakproof, and shall
be covered at all times except when depositing waste therein or removing the
contents thereof; and shall meet all requirements as set forth by §
50.07.
   (E)   Solid waste containers which are not approved will be collected
together with their contents and disposed of.
   (F)   Yard wastes shall be stored in containers so constructed and
maintained as to prevent the dispersal of wastes placed therein upon the
premises served, upon adjacent premises, or upon adjacent public rights-of-way.
The weight of any individual container and contents shall not exceed 75 pounds.
(Prior Code, § 230.020) Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974; Ord. 388, passed 12-3-
2008)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   The city shall provide for the collection of solid waste as follows.
      (1)   Collection of residential solid waste. The city shall provide for
the collection of residential solid waste in the city; provided however, that
the city may provide the collection service by contracting with a person,
county, or other city or a combination thereof, for the entire city or portions
thereof, as deemed to be in the best interests of the city.
      (2)   Other collections. The city may, at its discretion, provide
commercial solid waste collection services upon specific application of the
owners or persons in charge thereof. However, in the event that such
application is not made or approved, it shall be the duty of such establishment
to provide for collection of all solid waste produced upon any such premises in
a manner approved by city. If and when the city does provide commercial
collection service, the provisions herein concerning such service shall apply.
   (B)   All solid waste from premises to which collection services are
provided under contract with the city shall become the property of the
collection agency upon being loaded into the transportation equipment.
   (C)   Individuals desiring the collection of bulky rubbish shall deal
directly with those licensed by the city for the collection of the same.
   (D)   Solid waste collectors employed by the city or a solid waste
collection agency operating under contract with the city are hereby authorized
to enter upon private property for the purpose of collecting solid waste
therefrom as required by this chapter. Solid waste collectors shall not enter
dwelling units or other residential buildings for the purpose of collecting
residential solid waste. Commercial solid waste may be removed from within
commercial establishments upon written request of the owner and approval by the
Director.
   (E)   It shall be the responsibility of the occupants of each dwelling unit
to prepare, package, and deliver solid waste to curbside for collection as
prescribed in this chapter and as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   It shall be the responsibility of each commercial, industrial,
institutional, or other non-residential generator of solid waste to prepare,
package, and store solid waste so generated as prescribed by this chapter and
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of every solid waste collector to abide
by this chapter and receive and transport solid waste in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   The following collection frequencies shall apply to collections of
solid waste within the city: all residential solid waste, other than bulky
rubbish, shall be collected at least once weekly. At least 160 hours shall
intervene between collections. All commercial solid waste shall be collected
once weekly, and shall be collected at such lesser intervals as may be fixed by
the Board upon a determination that such lesser intervals are necessary for the
preservation of the health and/or safety of the public.
   (I)   Residential solid waste containers shall be stored upon the
residential premises. Except as provided in division (C) above, all solid waste
containers stored out of doors shall be stored behind any building located on
the tract of land. Commercial solid waste containers shall remain in the
location from which they are to be serviced except while being serviced.
   (J)   All solid waste collectors operating under contract with the city or
otherwise collecting solid waste within the city limits shall be responsible
for the collected solid waste from the point of collection to the point of
disposal, provided the solid waste was stored in compliance with the applicable
sections of this chapter. Any spillage or blowing litter caused as a result of
the duties of the solid waste collector shall be collected and placed in the
transportation vehicle by the solid waste collector.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation collecting
and disposing of rubbish, garbage, or waste material from premises in the
residential districts or premises in any commercial district which abuts or
adjoins a residential district in the city to make such collection or dispose
of rubbish, garbage, or waste materials between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
   (L)   Tree limbs and yard waste cannot be picked up by residential solid
waste collectors for purposes of placement in a land fill. It is unlawful for
persons to place tree limbs and yard waste with the person’s solid waste and
solid waste containers for collection by residential solid waste collectors.
(Prior Code, § 230.030) (Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974; Ord. 388, passed 12-3-
2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   All transportation vehicles shall be maintained in a safe, clean, and
sanitary condition, and shall be so constructed, maintained, and operated as to
prevent spillage of solid waste therefrom. All vehicles to be used for
transportation of solid waste shall be constructed with watertight bodies and
with covers which shall be an integral part of the vehicle or shall be a
separate cover of suitable material with fasteners designed to secure all sides
of the cover to the vehicle and shall be secured whenever the vehicle is
transporting solid waste, or, as an alternative, the entire bodies thereof
shall be enclosed with only loading hoppers. Provided however, other vehicles
may be used to transport bulky rubbish which because of its size or weight, is
not susceptible to being loaded or unloaded in vehicles described above, but in
no event shall such vehicles be operated without adequate cover or binding to
prevent spillage or waste therefrom and in accordance with the rules and
regulations made by the Board.
   (B)   Permits shall not be required for the removal, hauling, or disposal of
earth and rock material from grading or excavation activities, however, all
such material shall be conveyed in tight vehicles, trucks, or receptacles, so
constructed and maintained that none of the material being transported shall
spill upon the public rights-of-way.
   (C)   Transportation and disposal of demolition and construction wastes
shall be in accordance with §§
50.05 and
50.06.
(Prior Code, § 230.040)
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Solid wastes shall be deposited at a processing facility or disposal
area approved by the city and complying with all requirements of the state’s
Solid Waste Management Law, RSMo. §§ 260.200 to 260.245, and the rules and
regulations adopted thereunder. The city may designate the processing or
disposal facility to be utilized by persons holding permits under this chapter.
   (B)   The Board may classify certain wastes as hazardous wastes which will
require special handling and shall be disposed of only in a manner acceptable
to the Board which will meet all local, state, and federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 230.050)
§ 50.06 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, including any person contracting with the city for the
collection of solid waste, shall engage in the business of collecting,
transporting, processing, or disposing of solid waste within the corporate
limits of the city, without first obtaining an annual permit therefor from the
city; provided however, that this provision shall not be deemed to apply to
employees of the holder of any such permit. Permits shall be approved by the
Director.
   (B)   No such permit shall be issued until and unless the applicant
therefor, in addition to all other requirements set forth, shall file and
maintain with the with city evidence of a satisfactory public liability
insurance policy, covering all operations of such applicant pertaining to such
business and all vehicles to be operated in the conduct thereof in the amount
of $1,000,000 aggregate, $500,000 per incident, and $100,000 for damage to
property. Such policy may be written to allow the first $1,000 of liability for
damage to property to be deductible. Should any policy be canceled, the city
shall be notified of such cancellation by the insurance carrier in writing not
less than ten days prior to the effective date of such cancellation and
provisions to that effect shall be incorporated in such policy. Any sub-
contractor shall provide insurance coverage in like amount as is required of
the contractor.
   (C)   Each applicant for any such permit shall state in his or her
application therefor:
      (1)   The nature of the permit desired, as to collect, transport,
process, or dispose of solid waste or any combination thereof;
      (2)   The characteristics of solid waste to be collected, transported,
processed, or disposed;
      (3)   The number of solid waste transportation vehicles to be operated
thereunder;
      (4)   The precise location or locations of solid waste processing or
disposal facilities to be used;
      (5)   Boundaries of the collection area;
      (6)   If for processing or disposal, a copy of a permit issued by the
state; and
      (7)   Such other information as required by the city.
   (D)   If the application shows that the applicant will collect, transport,
process, or dispose of solid wastes without hazard to the public health or
damage to the environment and is in conformity with the laws of the state and
this chapter and is approved by the city, the Director shall issue the permit
authorized by the ordinance. Permits shall be issued for a period of one year,
and each applicant shall pay therefor a fee of $25 for each solid waste
processing or disposal facility to be operated and a fee of $2 for each
transportation vehicle to be used. If in the opinion of the Director,
modifications can be made to the application regarding service, equipment, or
mode of operation, so as to bring the application within the intent of this
chapter, the Director shall notify the applicant in writing setting forth the
modification to be made and time in which it shall be done.
   (E)   If the applicant does not make the modifications pursuant to the
notice in division (D) above, within the time limit specified therein, or if
the application does not clearly show that the collection, transportation,
processing, or disposal of solid wastes will not create a public health hazard
or be without harmful effects on the environment, the application shall be
denied and the applicant notified by the Director, in writing, stating the
reason for such denial. Nothing in this section shall prejudice the right of
the applicant to reapply after the rejection of his or her application,
provided that all aspects of the reapplication comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (F)   The annual permit may be renewed simply upon payment of the fee or
fees as designated herein if the business has not been modified. If
modifications have been made, the applicant shall reapply for a permit as set
forth in divisions (B) and (C) above. No permits authorized by the ordinance
shall be transferable from person to person.
   (G)   In order to ensure compliance with the laws of this state, this
chapter, and the rules and regulations authorized herein, the Director is
authorized to inspect all phases of solid waste management within the city. No
inspection shall be made of any residential waste unit unless authorized by the
occupant or by due process of law. In all instances where such inspections
reveal violation of this chapter concerning processing or disposal of solid
waste or the laws of the state, the city shall issue notice for such violation
stating therein the violation or violations found, the time and date, and the
corrective measure to be taken together with the time in which such corrections
shall be made.
   (H)   In all cases, when the corrective measures have not been taken within
the time specified, the city shall suspend or revoke the permit or permits
involved in the violation; however, in those cases where an extension of time
will permit correction and there is not a public health hazard created by the
delay, one extension of time not to exceed the original time period may be
given.
   (I)   Any person who feels aggrieved by any notice of violation or order
issued pursuant thereto of the Director may, within 30 days of the act for
which redress is sought, appeal directly to the County Circuit Court, in
writing, setting forth in a concise statement the act being appealed and the
grounds for its reversal.
   (J)   All motor vehicles operating under any permit required by this chapter
shall display the number or numbers on each side in colors which contrast with
that of the vehicle, such numbers to be clearly legible and not less than two
inches high. Each permit for processing or disposal facilities shall be
prominently displayed at the facility.
(Prior Code, § 230.060) (Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974; Ord. 388, passed 12-3-
2008)
§ 50.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board may make, amend, revoke, and enforce reasonable and
necessary rules and regulations, governing, but not limited to:
      (1)   Preparation, drainage, and wrapping of garbage deposited in solid
waste containers;
      (2)   Specifications for solid waste containers, including the type,
composition, equipment, size, and shape thereof;
      (3)   Identification of solid waste containers, and of the covers
thereof, and of equipment thereto appertaining, if any;
      (4)   Weight limitations on the combined weight of solid waste containers
and the contents thereof, and weight and size limitations on bundles of solid
waste too large for solid waste containers;
      (5)   Storage of solid waste in solid waste containers;
      (6)   Sanitation, maintenance, and replacement of solid waste containers;
      (7)   Schedules of and routes for collection and transportation of solid
waste;
      (8)   Collection points of solid waste containers;
      (9)   Collection, transportation, processing, and disposal of solid
waste;
      (10)   Processing facilities and fees for the use thereof;
      (11)   Disposal facilities and fees for the use thereof;
      (12)   Records of quantity and type of wastes received at processing and/
or disposal facilities; and
      (13)   Handling of special wastes such as toxic wastes, sludge, ashes,
agriculture, construction, bulky items, tires, automobiles, oils, greases, and
the like.
   (B)   The City Clerk or such other city official who is responsible for
preparing utility or other service charge billings for the city, is hereby
authorized to make and promulgate reasonable and necessary rules and
regulations for the billing and collection of solid waste collection and/or
disposal service charges, as hereinafter provided for, subject to the approval
of the Board.
   (C)   A copy of any and all rules and regulations made and promulgated under
the provisions hereof shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 230.070)
§ 50.08 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Deposit solid waste in any solid waste container other than his or her
own, without the written consent of the owner of such container and/or, with
the intent of avoiding payment of the service charge hereinafter provided for
solid waste collection and disposal;
   (B)   Interfere in any manner with solid waste collection and transportation
equipment, or with solid waste collectors in the lawful performance of their
duties as such, whether such equipment or collectors shall be those of the
city, those of a solid waste collection agency operating under contract with
the city, or any duly licensed collector;
   (C)   Burn solid waste unless an approved incinerator is provided or unless
a variance has been obtained from the appropriate air pollution control agency;
   (D)   Dispose of solid waste at any facility or location which is not
approved by the city and the state’s Division of Health; or
   (E)   Engage in the business of collecting, transporting, processing, or
disposing of solid waste within the corporate limits of the city without a
permit from the city, or operate under an expired permit, or operate after a
permit has been suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 230.080) (Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 BONDS.
   The Board may require performance or payment bonds of any solid waste
collection agency prior to issuing permits to so operate.
(Prior Code, § 230.090)
§ 50.10 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed for the collection and disposal of solid waste
and for the improvement of the general public and environment, a service charge
for each dwelling unit or commercial establishment to which such service shall
be provided under the provisions of this chapter. Said service charge shall be
in accordance with the service charge negotiated by the city with the
contractor providing solid waste collection services for the city. The service
and service charge shall be terminated upon presentation of satisfactory proof
to the Director, Mayor, or City Clerk, that any such dwelling unit or
commercial establishment is unoccupied, and service and service charge shall be
commenced upon renewed occupancy thereof.
   (B)   The system of services established by the provisions of this chapter
hereof is designated as an integral part of the city’s program of health,
sanitation, and general welfare, to be operated as an adjunct to the city’s
system for providing all manner of utilities services. The city may enforce
collection of such charges by bringing proper legal action against the occupant
of the premises which has received such services to recover any sums due for
such services plus a reasonable attorney’s fee to be fixed by the court, plus
the cost of such action.
   (C)   The service charge herein provided for is hereby imposed upon the
occupant of each occupied dwelling unit and the billing therefor shall be made
to the person contracting for city utilities of any kind to each such dwelling
unit. In the event a dwelling unit is not serviced by city utilities or in the
absence of information that such person is neither the owner or the tenant of
such dwelling unit, then billing therefor shall be made to the owner. Service
charges shall be payable to the city.
   (D)   The city shall include the foregoing service charge on its utility
bill as a separate charge, which shall be paid on or before the fifteenth of
the following month.
   (E)   The city shall provide any contractor hereunder with a monthly
statement showing the number of dwelling units, together with all additions and
deletions.
(Prior Code, § 230.100) (Ord. 175, passed 12-14-1974; Ord. 406, passed 8-18-
2011)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Combined waterworks and sewerage systems
   
51.002   The Committee on Public Utilities
   
51.003   Restricting use of water during pump repair or replacement
Superintendent of Maintenance of the Waterworks System
   
51.015   Establishment of office
   
51.016   Appointment
   
51.017   Duties
   
51.018   Report to Board; attend certain Board meetings as required
   
51.019   Definitions
   
51.020   Application for water service
   
51.021   Water service rates
   
51.022   Miscellaneous charges
   
51.023   Statements of accounts for water service
   
51.024   Waterworks Fund
   
51.025   Water services
   
51.026   Resale of water prohibited
   
51.027   Water lines; alter, repair, and the like requires written permit
issued by City Clerk
   
51.028   Installation of water service pipe
   
51.029   Future extensions
   
51.030   Water hydrants
   
51.031   Access to premises receiving water service
   
51.032   Liability
   
51.033   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.034   Tampering with system
   
51.035   Agreements; authority
Lead Ban Policy
   
51.050   Lead ban; general policy
   
51.051   Definitions
   
51.052   Lead banned from drinking water plumbing
Backflow Prevention Policy
   
51.065   Purpose
   
51.066   Authority of Superintendent of Maintenance of the waterworks system
   
51.067   Definitions
   
51.068   Compliance
   
51.069   Existing water connections
   
51.070   New water connections
   
51.071   Inspections; correction of violations
   
51.072   Permit installation standards
   
51.073   Inspections and tests by user
   
51.074   Exemptions
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It is hereby found, determined, and declared to be necessary for the
public health, safety, welfare, and benefit of the city, and its inhabitants,
that the existing waterworks of said city and the proposed sanitary sewerage
system and all future improvements and extensions thereto, be combined and that
they shall thenceforth be operated and maintained as a combined waterworks and
sewerage system.
   (B)   Thenceforth, from and after April 12, 1965, the existing waterworks of
the city, and the proposed sanitary sewerage system and all future improvements
and extensions thereto, whether to the waterworks or to the sewerage system or
to both, shall be and the same are combined and its is hereby declared that
said waterworks and said sewerage system, and all future improvements and
extensions thereto as aforesaid, thenceforth be operated and maintained as a
combined waterworks and sewerage system.
(Prior Code, § 700.010) (Ord. 104, passed 4-12-1965)
§ 51.002 THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The Committee on Public Utilities, Public Health, and Safety shall exercise
general supervisory control of public utilities owned by or operating within
the city and shall exercise general supervisory control over the health and
safety of the inhabitants of the city; shall have full and complete control,
charge, and management of the waterworks of the city; shall see that all
revenues of the waterworks are segregated from other city revenue and deposited
into the separate funds required by ordinance; shall supervise the location of
fire hydrants and water mains, sewers, artificial drainage ditches, telephone
and electric lines, poles, and installations within the city; shall
periodically inspect the city, at least quarterly, to determine the existence
of any nuisances therein detrimental to the public health and safety of the
inhabitants of the city and report same to the Board or Board of Health, if
found; shall recommend rules for the government of the waterworks system and
rates to be charged for water, services, and installations of the waterworks
system made by the city.
(Prior Code, § 700.020) (Ord. 146, passed 10-1-1970)
§ 51.003 RESTRICTING USE OF WATER DURING PUMP REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   During the time the water pump and the water distribution system of
the city is being replaced or repaired, use of water by water consumers of the
city shall be restricted to that which is needed for personal consumption,
including drinking water, laundry, showers, baths, washing of dishes, toilet
facilities, and other essential domestic uses inside a home or building. Water
shall not be used for non-essential uses including, but not limited to,
watering the lawn, washing vehicles, watering the garden, and washing of
exterior structures.
   (B)   During the time while the water pump or the water distribution system
of the city is being repaired or replaced, should any said official, employee
or Alderman observe a water consumer use water in violation of this section,
they shall immediately notify said water consumer orally or in writing to cease
and desist the use of the water in violation of this section. If the water
user, after being so notified, fails to immediately cease and desist use of
water in violation of this section, said water user shall be immediately
disconnected from the city waterworks system and shall be required to pay prior
to reconnection and, in addition to all normal charges associated with
reconnection due to disconnection of water service, an additional $100 charge
for violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 700.030) (Ord. 322, passed 7-26-2003)
SUPERINTENDENT OF MAINTENANCE OF THE WATERWORKS SYSTEM
§ 51.015 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   There is hereby established the office of Superintendent of Maintenance of
the Waterworks System of the city.
(Prior Code, § 705.010) (Ord. 68A, passed 10-20-1958)
§ 51.016 APPOINTMENT.
   The office shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with the consent and
approval of the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 705.020) (Ord. 68A, passed 10-20-1958)
§ 51.017 DUTIES.
   The Superintendent of Maintenance of the Waterworks Systems of the city
shall be the custodian of the building, the land housing the same with its
tower thereon, and keeper of the keys to the locks guarding entrances thereto.
The Superintendent shall permit entrance to the Mayor or others designated by
the Mayor upon the Mayor’s written request, or upon the request of any member
of the Board of Aldermen, and attested by the City Clerk. The Superintendent
shall make readings of the water meters of the city waterworks system at least
monthly and record the same and turn in such records to the City Clerk; take
water samples when required by the Board or State Health Department; flush the
fire hydrants at least once a month; make a daily inspection of the waterworks
system, pump, pump house, lot, and tower; inspect new connections and
reconnections to the waterworks system and if adequate and satisfactory approve
the same; install all meters, making the actual connection for in or out pipes
thereto, and make disconnections when removal of meters are necessary. The
Superintendent shall attend all calls and complaints when made, make needed
repairs or corrections. The Superintendent shall perform such duties as will
maintain the city waterworks system in compliance with all federal, state,
county, and city laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 705.030) (Ord. 68A, passed 10-20-1958; Ord. 308, passed 5-1-
2001)
§ 51.018 REPORT TO BOARD; ATTEND CERTAIN BOARD MEETINGS AS REQUIRED.
   The Superintendent of Maintenance of the Waterworks System shall report to
the Board all defects in the water system which his or her inspections reveal
and all unsatisfactory connections to the city system from the premises of
private users. Such report shall be made in writing to the City Clerk for
presentation to the Board or may be made orally at any meeting of the Board of
Aldermen. The Superintendent of Maintenance of the Waterworks System shall
attend such meetings of the Board of Aldermen as required by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 705.040) (Ord. 68A, passed 10-20-1958)
§ 51.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or unplatted tract of land, either within or without
the city limits of Otterville, Missouri.
   SYSTEM. The waterworks system of the City of Otterville, Missouri.
   WATER SERVICE. The furnishing of water from the waterworks system of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 705.050) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 51.020 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The Water Superintendent shall place a pad lock on water meters of any
properties to prevent owners or renters from turning water on when the city has
turned water off for non-payment, and/or to prevent water loss when a problem
has occurred at that specific address. All city utilities due to the vacancy of
a tenant of any residence become the responsibility of the property owner. All
city utilities must be paid in full in order for the removal of water meter
lock and for service to resume.
   (B)   An application from any person who, or organization which, has failed
to make payment of any of his, her, or its taxes or other debts due the city,
at the time such application is submitted to the City Clerk, shall not be
accepted and approved until such default has been extinguished.
   (C)   With the delivery of the application to the City Clerk, if the
applicant is the owner of the premises to be furnished with water service, the
applicant shall also deliver to the City Clerk the sum of $150, which sum shall
be retained by the city, without interest, as security for the payment of the
account incurred for water service furnished to the premises for which
application for water service is made. If the applicant is not the owner of the
premises to be furnished with water service, then with delivery of the
application to the City Clerk, the applicant shall deliver to the City Clerk
the sum of $200, which sum shall be retained by the city without interest as
security for payment of the account incurred for water service furnished to the
premises for which application for water service is made. The application shall
not be accepted by the City Clerk unless the sum required to be paid as a
deposit at the time the application is submitted, accompanies said application.
The City Clerk shall give to the applicant a receipt for the money so
deposited. If the statement of account for water service is not paid within the
time required in §
51.023, the amount of such account shall be deducted from said deposit. In the
event a water service customer has paid the customer’s bill by the due date for
three consecutive years, the City Clerk shall refund 50% of the deposit to the
customer. Upon discontinuance of water service due to the vacation of, or
change in owner of, the premises served, the balance of said deposit shall be
returned to depositor.
(Prior Code, § 705.060) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983; Ord. 313, passed 2-5-2002;
Ord. 380, passed 1-5-2008; Ord. 424, passed 8-13-2014)
§ 51.021 WATER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   Minimum charges.
      (1)   The minimum charge per month for any user of water services shall
be $7.12 plus $13.22 for water equipment repair and maintenance, this includes
the first 1,000 gallons of water. In addition, for every 1,000 gallons
thereafter, or fraction thereof, a charge of $5.48 will be applied.
      (2)   The minimum charge per month per unit of a MDU (multi-dwelling
unit, reference § 52.26 of this code) for water services shall be $7.12 plus
$13.22 for water equipment repair and maintenance, this includes 1,000 gallons
of water per unit. In addition, for every 1,000 gallons thereafter, or fraction
thereof, a charge of $5.48 will be applied.
   (B)   Audit surcharge. A water utility audit surcharge in the amount of $6
per month to begin the first billing cycle after commencement of petition audit
by the State Auditor and to remain in effect until all costs of audit are paid.
(Prior Code, § 705.070) (Ord. 454, passed 10-14-2020)
§ 51.022 MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES.
   The following charges shall be paid by premises owner or occupier furnished
or to be furnished water service from said system:
   (A)   For installation of water line from city water main to water meter,
measuring water to be furnished to premises cost of supplies and labor plus
20%.
   (B)   For late payment of statement of account for water service furnished
$25. Late fee will be assessed at midnight of the eleventh of the month.
   (C)   For disconnection of water service due to temporary vacancy or failure
to pay the account during regular business hours, $50. Regular business hours
being defined as Monday through Friday from 7:00 am to 3:30 pm., unless it is a
holiday for city employees. An additional $25 disconnection fee shall be
charged if the property owner requests, and the city can accommodate a
disconnection on hours other than regular business hours.
   (D)   For re-connection of water service previously connected to said system
during regular business hours a $50. An additional charge of $25 will be made
for re-connection of water service previously connected to said system, when
the property owner or account holder requests service and the city can
accommodate the hook-up of service on hours other than regular business hours.
(Ord. 382, passed 3-1-2008; Ord. 458, passed 1-6-2021; Ord. 481, passed 4-2-
2025)
§ 51.023 STATEMENTS OF ACCOUNTS FOR WATER SERVICE.
   The City Clerk shall prepare a statement of account for each premises to
which water service was furnished. Such statement shall cover the period of
time between the sixteenth of the month and fifteenth of the following month
and shall be prepared monthly and charged to the name of the person who, or
organization which, applied for water service. Such account shall also include
any miscellaneous charges against the premises concerned during the billing
period. Such account shall be due by the tenth of the month and considered late
thereafter and a late fee applied. Accounts not paid by the fifteenth at noon
will be disconnected with disconnect/re-connect fees applied.
(Ord. 449, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 51.024 WATERWORKS FUND.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall pay over to the Treasurer of said city all money
received from the sale of water supplied from said system and from
miscellaneous charges made. The City Treasurer shall deposit said monies
received for water supplied and for said charges in a fund designated as the
“Waterworks Fund” of the city, as established by Ordinance 49 of said city. The
City Treasurer shall continue the present accounts and shall keep proper books,
records, and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made of
all transactions relative to said monies received by said Treasurer. Said
Treasurer, at regular annual intervals, shall cause an audit to be made, all as
provided in said Ordinance 49.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall deposit $6,000 in the month of June each year
beginning in the year 2020. Deposits shall be made annually to the water tower
saving account to be used for water tower maintenance or replacement. This
yearly amount shall be included in the yearly water budget.
(Prior Code, § 705.100) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983; Ord. 447, passed 3-13-2019)
§ 51.025 WATER SERVICES.
   Water service shall be furnished to premises only through water meters
belonging to the city. Service lines may be installed to outer buildings
belonging to the property owner, providing any such outer building is for home-
based business or personal use only.
(Ord. 428, passed 1-14-2015)
§ 51.026 RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   No water furnished from said system to a premises shall be resold and no
water furnished to one premises shall be furnished from such premises to
another premises.
(Prior Code, § 705.120) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 51.027 WATER LINES; ALTER, REPAIR, AND THE LIKE REQUIRES WRITTEN PERMIT
ISSUED BY CITY CLERK.
   No person shall place nor employ any other person to place any cap on, or
connection to, a water line on a premises served by said system for the purpose
of altering, repairing, extending, or fixing attachments to said water line
without written permit issued by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 705.130) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 51.028 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPE.
   Installation of water service pipe from a meter to the nearest boundary line
of the premises to be served shall be the responsibility of, and at the expense
of, the owner or occupier of the premises to be served, as the case may be.
Such pipe from the meter to the premises’ boundary line shall be cast iron,
galvanized wrought iron, or copper pipe or tubing, not less than three-fourths
inch in diameter, and shall be laid not less than 30 inches below the surface.
A shut off valve shall be placed on the property owner’s side of the meter,
allowing the property owner to shut off water to the premises. Before the
trench in which such line is installed is refilled, the Superintendent of
Maintenance of said city shall inspect the pipe installed and, if said pipe
does not meet the specifications for pipe above mentioned or such pipe is not
laid at least 30 inches below the surface of the ground, water service shall
not be furnished to the premises concerned until the above specifications have
been met.
(Ord. 344, passed 6-4-2005)
§ 51.029 FUTURE EXTENSIONS.
   In the event it is necessary to extend the public water system for future
development or service, the owner or owners of property to be served shall
petition the Board of Aldermen for said extension to be made. Upon approval of
said future extension, the owner or owners involved shall have plans and
specifications prepared by a professional engineer duly registered in the
state; shall obtain all necessary permits and easements for said extension; and
shall cause said extension to be constructed in compliance with all laws,
rules, and regulations. The cost of said extension shall be entirely borne by
owners. After said extension is completed and approved by the city, the
extension shall be dedicated to the city as a public water main and shall be
the responsibility of the city to maintain said extension as of that time.
(Ord. 344, passed 6-4-2005)
§ 51.030 WATER HYDRANTS.
   No person shall take water from any hydrant which is a part of said
waterworks system, except for the purpose of extinguishing a fire damaging
structures on nearby premises and except for the purpose of sprinkling streets
and flushing sewers or gutters when a person so taking water from a hydrant for
such purposes is authorized to do so by written permission of the City Clerk.
The written permission shall limit such taking to a particular day, time, and
location.
(Prior Code, § 705.150) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.031 ACCESS TO PREMISES RECEIVING WATER SERVICE.
   Members of the Board of Aldermen, the Superintendent of Maintenance, and
other employees of said city authorized by said Superintendent shall have
unimpeded access at all reasonable times to premises receiving water service
from said system for the purpose of determining the use being made of water
being supplied to said premises or the amount of water consumed or for
inspecting water lines located on said premises and for such other purposes
deemed advisable for the proper operation and maintenance of said system and no
person shall interfere with, prevent, or obstruct said city officials, agents,
and employees seeking access to such premises.
(Prior Code, § 705.160) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 51.032 LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable to any applicant nor to any user of water at
the premises served by said system for bodily injury to, or damage to, property
of the owner or occupier of such premises because of the breaking of any water
main, service pipe, or other apparatus connected with said system nor due to
interruption of the supply of water by reason of the failure of machinery of
said system to function, or by reason of stoppage of water service for the
installation of hydrants and other connections to said system or by reason of
repairing or laying of water mains or lines or by reason of failure of the
water supply or by reason of increasing water pressure at any time or from
concentrated or restrictive use of water or by reason of alterations,
extensions, or other changes in said system.
(Prior Code, § 705.170) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 51.033 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   Water service to any premises served by said system may be diminished,
suspended, or discontinued by the city for the following purposes and reasons:
   (A)   To clean, repair, make extension to or connection with water mains,
and lines, or to clean water tower;
   (B)   To concentrate the flow of water to a particular area within or
without limits of said city in case of fire or other damage requiring
additional water pressure to control or extinguish the fire or other damage;
   (C)   To restrict the use of water in the event of deficiency in the city's
water tanks, reservoirs or water wells;
   (D)   For refusal of premise owners or occupiers to permit access to said
premises required by §§
51.023,
51.025 through
51.027,
51.030, and
51.034 of this chapter;
   (E)   For tampering with or damaging any water main, hydrant, service pipe,
meter, lock, valve seal or other appliance or equipment constituting a part of
said system;
   (F)   In case of vacancy of premises being served;
   (G)   On notice from owner or occupant of premises being served water
service to discontinue service; and
   (H)   Except for discontinuance under the provisions of (A) and (B) of this
section, any time water service is discontinued and if the meter is not
removed, the meter shall be locked. In the event the meter is locked, and
should the lock be tampered with, removed or destroyed there will be a
presumption that the water customer, or if there is no water customer, the
property owner, was the person who damaged, interfered with the removed the
lock such that they would be responsible for any water usage after the city has
placed a lock on the water meter.
(Ord. 382, passed 3-1-2008; Ord. 481, passed 4-2-2025)
§ 51.034 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to tamper with any water
main, water meter, lock or other party of the city's water works or to make any
connection to system, or to reconnect service when service has been
discontinued. However, in the event of an emergency any city official or
authorized emergency personnel will be allowed to shut off water due to said
emergency. In any prosecution under this section due to connection or
reconnection of the water system, tampering with the meter, tampering with the
lock if the person or persons accused receive the use or direct benefit of the
water service, this shall be sufficient to support an inference which the trail
court may submit to the trier fact, from which the trier fact may conclude that
there has been a violation of this section by the person or persons who sue or
receive the direct benefit of the water service.
(Ord. 382, passed 3-1-2008; Ord. 481, passed 4-2-2025) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.035 AGREEMENTS; AUTHORITY.
   No official and no agent of the city shall have authority to bind the city
by any promise, agreement, or representation with reference to the operation
and maintenance of said waterworks system, unless such authority is given in
writing, signed by the Mayor, and attested by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 705.190) (Ord. 213, passed 5-3-1983)
LEAD BAN POLICY
§ 51.050 LEAD BAN; GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To ban the use of lead materials in the public drinking water
system and private plumbing connected to the public drinking water system; and
      (2)   To protect city residents from lead contamination in the city’s
public drinking water system and their own private plumbing systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public drinking water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy. This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted by the water
purveyor. It is the purveyor’s intent to ban the use of lead-based material in
the construction or modification of the city’s drinking water system or private
plumbing connected to the city system. The cooperation of all consumers is
required to implement the lead ban. If, in the judgement of the water purveyor
or his or her authorized representative, lead base materials have been used in
new construction or modification after January 1, 1989, due notice shall be
given to the consumer. The consumer shall immediately comply by having the lead
base materials removed from the plumbing system and replaced with lead free
materials. If the lead base materials are not removed from the plumbing system,
the water purveyor shall have the right to discontinue water service to the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 705.210) (Ord. 295, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 51.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   LEAD BASE MATERIALS. Any material containing lead in excess of the
quantities specified in the definition of LEAD FREE below.
   LEAD FREE.
      (1)   When used with respect to solder and flux, refers to solders and
flux containing not more than 0.2% lead; and
      (2)   When used with respect to pipes and pipe fittings, refers to pipes
and pipe fittings containing not more than 8% lead.
   PUBLIC DRINKING WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary and domestic purposes, and meets the requirements of the Missouri
Department of Natural Resources.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner, operator, or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Prior Code, § 705.220) (Ord. 295, passed 8-3-1999)
§ 51.052 LEAD BANNED FROM DRINKING WATER PLUMBING.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where lead base materials were used in new construction or
modifications of the drinking water plumbing after January 1, 1989.
   (B)   If a premises is found to be in violation of division (A) above, water
service shall be disconnected until such time that the drinking water plumbing
is lead free.
(Prior Code, § 705.230) (Ord. 295, passed 8-3-1999)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION POLICY
§ 51.065 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public potable water supply
of the city by containing within the customer’s internal distribution system or
the customer’s private water system such contaminants or pollutants that could
backflow into the public water system.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.066 AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT OF MAINTENANCE OF THE WATERWORKS SYSTEM.
   The Superintendent of Maintenance of the waterworks system shall administer
this subchapter. The Superintendent shall designate by regulation the types of
premises that generally will require a backflow device under this subchapter
and shall issue any other regulations necessary to carry out the requirements
of this subchapter. The Superintendent shall mail written notice to customers
whose premises fall within the designated categories in accordance with a
schedule set forth in the regulations. Each notice shall give the owner of the
premises a reasonable time period in which to install a backflow device, or to
provide evidence to the Superintendent that the particular premises does not
require a backflow device under this subchapter. The owner may, within the
allowed time frame, request a hearing before the Superintendent. The
Superintendent may request additional evidence and may inspect the premises
before making a final decision. The Superintendent will notify the owner of his
or her final decision on the necessity of a backflow prevention assembly for
the particular premises. If a device is required, the owner must install the
device within 90 days of the date of the Superintendent’s final decision. If
the owner has not installed the device or commenced judicial action for review
of the Superintendent’s decision within the 90-day period, the Superintendent
may terminate water and sewer service to the premises.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.067 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the city’s approved public water supply. These AUXILIARY WATERS may
include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any
natural source, such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor and so forth,
used waters, or industrial fluids.
   BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water distribution
system as a result of a cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. The approved types are as follows.
      (1)   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water
or waste to a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor, or other assembly and the flood
level rim of the receptacle. These vertical physical separations must be at
least twice the diameter of the water supply outlet, and never less than one
inch (25 millimeters).
      (2)   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. The approved double check valve
assembly consists of two internally spring loaded check valves, installed as a
unit between two tightly closing resilient-seated shutoff valves and fittings
with properly located resilient-seated test cocks.
      (3)   REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPAL BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. The
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly consists of
two independently acting approved check valves, together with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and below the first check valve. These units are
located between two tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves as an
assembly and equipped with properly located resilient seated test cocks.
   CONTAMINANT. Any foreign substance that degrades the quality of the potable
water supply or creates a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection between any part of a potable water system
and any other fluids containing other substances in a manner that, under any
circumstances, would allow such substances to enter the potable water system.
Other substances may include gases, liquids, or solids, such as chemicals,
waste producers, steam, water from other sources (potable or non-potable), or
any matter that may change the color or add odor to the water.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluids or solution that may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
that would constitute a health, system, pollution, or plumbing hazard if
introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but shall not be
limited to, polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process waters and
used waters originating from the public potable water system that may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and
alkalies; circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower; or
cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with
toxic substances; contaminated natural waters, such as wells, springs, streams,
rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, and the like; oils,
gases, glycerin, paraffins, caustic and acid solutions; and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes, including for firefighting
purposes.
   POLLUTANT. Any foreign substance in water that tends to degrade its quality
so as to constitute a non-health hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Maintenance of the Waterworks System.
   WATER, NON-POTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable quality.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water that is safe for human consumption as described by the
Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 300 et seq.).
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.068 COMPLIANCE.
   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or maintained
unless the water supply is protected as required by this subchapter. Water
service to any premises shall be discontinued by the Water Department
Superintendent or his or her authorized representative if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this subchapter is not installed, tested, and maintained,
or if it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises. Service
will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.069 EXISTING WATER CONNECTIONS.
   The owner of any existing commercial and industrial premises shall protect
the public water system against backflow by installing an approved device
commensurate with the degree of hazard in the non-fire service line, if the
premises contain the following:
   (A)   An auxiliary water supply that is not or may not be of safe
bacteriological or chemical quality and that is not acceptable as an additional
source by the Water Department;
   (B)   Any industrial fluids or any other objectionable substances that are
handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or potential hazard to the
public water system; or premises where, in the opinion of the Superintendent,
an undue health threat is posed because of the presence of toxic substances.
This shall include the handling of process waters and waters originating from
the utility system that have been subject to deterioration in quality; or
   (C)   Multiple internal cross-connections; or premises where entry to the
necessary portions of the premises is not accessible for inspection purposes,
making it impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross-connections
exist.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.070 NEW WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All new commercial and industrial non-fire water service lines, and
new underground connections for irrigation systems with facilities for
introduction of chemical additives or with equipment creating back pressure,
must have an approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly installed in the line, in accordance
with §
51.072.
   (B)   New and existing irrigation systems without facilities for injection
of pesticides, herbicides, or other chemicals must have an approved double
check valve assembly installed in accordance with §
51.072 and with other provisions of this subchapter. The backflow assembly may
be installed between the customer service line and the irrigation system.
   (C)   New fire protection systems using chemical additives must have an
approved air gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly installed in the line in accordance with §
51.072. New fire protection lines not using chemical additives must have an
approved double-check valve assembly installed in the service line in
accordance with §
51.072.
   (D)   Major modifications or major additions to water systems will be
considered to be new service lines or systems for purposes of this section.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.071 INSPECTIONS; CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The customer’s system should be open for inspection at all reasonable times
to the Superintendent or other authorized representatives of the Water
Department to determine whether cross-connections or other structural or
sanitary hazards, including violations of this subchapter, exist. When such a
condition becomes known, the Superintendent shall notify the consumer and give
a reasonable period of time to correct the condition.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.072 PERMIT INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A permit must be issued by the Superintendent prior to the start of
construction or modification of equipment subject to this subchapter.
   (B)   An air gap’s discharge pipe shall terminate a minimum of two pipe
diameters of the discharge pipe above the flood level rim of the receiving
vessel. In no case shall the distance be less than one inch.
   (C)   A reduced-pressure principle assembly shall not be installed upstream
of a fire pump.
   (D)   Reduced-pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed with no plug or additional piping affixed to the pressure
differential relief valve port, except for specifically designed funnel
apparatus available from the manufacturer, and with the pressure differential
relief valve port a minimum of 12 inches above floor level. Additionally, the
assembly shall be installed at a location where any leakage from the pressure
differential relief valve port will be noticed, that allows easy access to the
assembly for maintenance and testing, and that will not subject the assembly to
flooding, excessive heat, or freezing.
   (E)   Each backflow assembly shall be installed at a location that allows
easy access to the assembly for maintenance and testing and that will not
subject the assembly to excessive heat or freezing.
   (F)   Only those models of double-check valve assemblies and reduced-
pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies which are on the approved
list maintained by the state’s Department of Natural Resources are acceptable.
   (G)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the customer
water system inside the wall immediately after the meter, where the customer
service line enters the building, but in all cases before the first branch,
except where such placement would violate the requirement of division (C)
above. Any deviations from this shall be approved in advance by the
Superintendent.
   (H)   No bypass piping shall be allowed around a backflow prevention
assembly unless the bypass is equipped with the same level of protection.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.073 INSPECTIONS AND TESTS BY USER.
   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where backflow
prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made at least once per year, as well as at the time of
construction or installation. Annual inspections should be completed each year
by September 13. In those instances where the Superintendent deems the hazard
to be great enough, certified inspections may be required at more frequent
intervals. These inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water
user and shall be performed by a tester certified by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources. These assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled, or replaced
at the expense of the customer-user whenever such assemblies are found to be
defective. Records of such tests, repairs, and overhaul shall be mailed to and
kept by the Superintendent for a period of five years. The report must be on an
approved form and must contain the name, signature, and certificate number of
the certified backflow prevention assembly tester attesting to the compliance
of the assembly with established operational requirements. Routine reports
shall be submitted within five days after making the inspection or test.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.074 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   All presently installed backflow prevention assemblies that do not
meet the requirements of this subchapter but were approved assemblies for the
purpose described in this subchapter at the time of installation, and that have
been properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under §
51.073, be excluded from the requirements of this subchapter so long as the
Superintendent is assured that they will satisfactorily protect the utility
system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from the present location or
requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the Superintendent finds that
the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by
an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this
section.
   (B)   The Superintendent may issue a letter exempting a customer from the
requirements of this subchapter, if the customer can document to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent that the activities taking place at the
customer’s facility and the materials used in connection with these activities
or stored on the premises cannot endanger the health of customers or degrade
the water quality of the public water system. An exemption shall remain valid
for no more than three years, following the date of issuance, but can be
reissued by the Superintendent. An exemption shall be void if it is determined
that the customer’s facility has become a backflow hazard. Those customers
granted an exemption shall report to the Superintendent any proposed change in
process, plumbing materials used or stored at the exempted facility at least 14
days prior to making the change.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-1-2006)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to violate the
provisions of §§
51.025 to
51.027,
51.030, or
51.034, and such violation shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 382, passed 3-1-2008; Ord. 481, passed 4-2-2025)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Public and Private Sewers
   
52.01   Rules and regulations
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Unlawful to discharge sewage to any natural outlet
   
52.04   Privy, septic tank, and the like prohibited
   
52.05   Connection to public sewer
   
52.06   Private sewage disposal
   
52.07   Future extensions to public sewer system
   
52.08   Discharge of storm water, drain water, and the like to any sanitary
sewer
   
52.09   Toxic wastes shall not be discharged to public sewers
   
52.10   Preliminary treatment at owner’s expense
   
52.11   Manhole; when required
   
52.12   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.13   Damaging sewer system
   
52.14   Authority to enter property to inspect
User Charge System
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Definitions
   
52.27   User charge accounts
   
52.28   User charge rates
   
52.29   Billing; when due
   
52.30   City to review user charge system
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.45   General policy
   
52.46   Definitions
   
52.47   Cross-connections prohibited
   
52.48   Survey and investigations
   
52.49   Type of protection required
   
52.50   Where protection is required
   
52.51   Backflow prevention assemblies
   
52.52   Installation
   
52.53   Inspection and maintenance
   
52.54   Violations
   
52.55   Types of facilities representing cross-connection hazards
 
   
52.99   Penalty
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
§ 52.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted to govern the sewer
services furnished by the municipality in a uniform manner for the benefit of
the municipality and its sewer users. They are subject to change from time to
time. All such changes must be approved by the State Director of the Farmers
Home Administration, United States Department of Agriculture, or his or her
successor, so long as the municipality has unpaid obligations which are held by
or insured by the United States of America. If any portion of these rules shall
be declared invalid by competent authority, such voidance shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions.
(Prior Code, § 710.010) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Otterville, Missouri, or any representative or employee of
the city, or duly authorized deputy or agent thereof.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation, air-
conditioning, cooling, refrigeration, or similar system. Such WATER shall be
free from odor and oil, and shall contain no polluting substance which would
produce BOD or suspended solids in excess of ten milligrams per liter.
   DRAINAGE CHANNEL. Any artificially constructed open channel, ditch, swale,
or flume, whether lined or unlined for the drainage of storm, surface, or
ground water.
   GARBAGE. Every refuse accumulation of solid animal, fruit, and vegetable
matter that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing of
food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid wastes from industrial processes, as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, stream, creek, river, pond,
lake, or any body of surface or ground water.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in
grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   POLLUTED WASTE or WASTE. Any water or waste containing free or emulsified
grease or oil; acid or alkali; phenols or other substances imparting tastes or
odors in receiving waters; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension,
colloidal state, or solution; noxious or odorous gases; dissolved solids in
greater concentration than 10,000 milligrams per liter; BOD or suspended solids
in concentration greater than ten milligrams per liter; or color in excess of
50 units.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer controlled by the city.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Sewage discharged from the sanitary convenience of
dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels), office buildings, factories,
or institutions, and free from storm water, surface water, and industrial
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer designed and intended to receive and convey only
sewage as defined herein, together with such ground water infiltration as
cannot be avoided.
   SEWAGE. The waterborne wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singly or in combination, together
with such ground and surface waters as cannot be avoided.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage and other waste liquids.
   SEWER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE DIRECTOR. The State Director of the Farmers Home Administration for
Missouri, United States Department of Agriculture, or his or her successor.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A pipe or conduit designed and intended to
receive and convey only storm or unpolluted waters.
   STORM WATER. Any water resulting from precipitation mixed with the
accumulation of dirt, soil, and other debris or substances collected from the
surfaces on which precipitation falls or flows.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewer Works of the City
of Otterville, Missouri, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float upon the surface of, or are
carried in suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural surface drainage channel for storm, ground, or
surface water in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 710.020) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.03 UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE SEWAGE TO ANY NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall not be permitted to discharge or deposit into any natural outlet,
drainage channel, or watercourse within the city, any sewage, industrial waste,
garbage, polluted water, or any other substances which constitute a nuisance or
hazard to the public health or welfare, except the effluent from a properly
designed and approved sewage treatment facility or device which has been
provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 710.030) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.04 PRIVY, SEPTIC TANK, AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall not be permitted to install any
privy, cesspool, septic tank, or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 710.040) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   At such time as a public sanitary sewer becomes available to a
property, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer, and any privy,
cesspool, septic tank, or other similar sewage disposal or treatment facility
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material. A public sewer shall be
considered to be available to the property if it is within 150 feet of any part
of the property to be connected to the sewer.
   (B)   At the time of the public sewer connection is made, a connection fee
of the cost for all materials and supplies and labor plus 20% shall be paid to
the city.
(Prior Code, § 710.050) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983; Ord. 371, passed 4-7-2007;
Ord. 482, passed 4-2-2025)
§ 52.06 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to an approved sewage
disposal system or sewerage treatment facility complying fully with the
provisions included hereinafter.
   (B)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of any sewage disposal or
treatment facility shall comply fully with all recommendations of the state’s
Water Pollution Board (Clean Water Commission).
   (C)   No sewage disposal or treatment facility shall be constructed within
the city before the owner obtains written approval from the city and the
state’s Water Pollution Board. The owner shall submit complete plans,
specifications, and any other data requested for such facilities. All plans and
specifications shall be prepared by a professional engineer duly registered in
the State of Missouri. The city shall have the right to inspect the
construction of such facilities at any stage. The owner shall not place such
facilities in operation until the city has inspected and approved the completed
works.
   (D)   The owner shall maintain and operate the sewage disposal or treatment
facilities in an efficient and satisfactory manner at all times, at no expense
to the city. Such facilities shall be subject to inspection by the city at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 710.060) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.07 FUTURE EXTENSIONS TO PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM.
   In the event that it is necessary to extend the public sewer system for
future development or service, the owner or owners of the property to be served
shall petition the Board of Aldermen for said extension to be made. Upon
approval of said future extension, the owner or owners involved shall have
plans and specifications prepared by a professional engineer duly registered in
the State of Missouri; shall obtain all necessary permits and easements for
said extension; shall cause said extension to be constructed in compliance with
all laws, rules, and regulations; in the event a lift station is required, it
cannot be used but must be new equipment. The cost of said extension shall be
entirely borne by the owner or owners. After said extension is completed and
approved by the city, the extension shall be dedicated to the city as a public
sewer and shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain said extension as
of that time.
(Prior Code, § 710.070) (Ord. 343, passed 6-4-2005)
§ 52.08 DISCHARGE OF STORM WATER, DRAIN WATER, AND THE LIKE TO ANY SANITARY
SEWER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water, or unpolluted process water into any sanitary sewer. Any connection,
drain, or arrangement which will permit any such waters to enter any sanitary
sewer shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Storm water and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged into such sewers as are
specifically designed as storm sewers, or to a drainage channel or natural
outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, upon approval of the city, to a storm sewer, drainage
channel, or natural outlet. It shall not be permitted for any plumber,
contractor, or any other person constructing a house or building sewer or
industrial sewer connected to a sanitary sewer to leave such connection open,
unsealed, or incomplete in such manner that will permit storm or surface water
to enter any sanitary sewer within the city. All such openings shall be tightly
sealed at all points whenever work is not actually in progress on such sewer or
connection. All new house or building sewers will comply with the requirements
of the BOCA Basic Plumbing Code and current revisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 710.080) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 TOXIC WASTES SHALL NOT BE DISCHARGED TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewers any of the following substances, materials, water, or wastes:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, mineral oil, or other
flammable or explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any water or waste that contains more than ten milligrams per liter
of gases such as hydrogen sulphide, sulfur dioxide, or nitrous oxide;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly ground or shredded to a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions of
the sewer and with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (4)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
blood, lime slurry, lime residues, chemical residues, paint residues, cannery
waste bulk solids, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer system or sewage treatment facilities;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance, which either singly or
by interaction with other wastes, is capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life or of preventing entry into the public sewers for their
maintenance or repair; or
      (6)   Any water or wastes containing in excess of two milligrams per
liter of cyanides as CN.
   (B)   Unless written approval has been obtained from the city, no person
shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public sewers any of the
following:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste, acidic or alkaline in reaction, and having
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel. Free acids and alkalies in such wastes must be
neutralized, at all times, within a permissible range of pH between 5.5 and
10.0;
      (3)   Any water or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance or of
high chlorine requirement in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with
any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create any hazard in the receiving waters or storm water overflows or treatment
plant effluents;
      (4)   Waters and wastes containing metallic ions such as copper, zinc,
and chromium. Such wastes shall be subject to the control of the city as to
volume and concentration of wastes from individual establishments;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing strong acids, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes. The introduction of radioactive wastes in
the city sewers shall be permitted only if a special permit is obtained prior
to introducing such wastes. In general, the policy of the city will be in
accordance with the regulations of the state’s Division of Health;
      (7)   Concentrated dye wastes, spent tanning solutions, or other wastes
which are highly colored, or wastes which are of unusual volume, concentration
of solids, or composition, as for example in total suspended solids of inert
nature (such as Fuller’s earth) and/or in total dissolved solids (such as
calcium chloride, sodium chloride, or sodium sulfate) or unusual in BOD. Such
wastes shall be subject to special review by the city as to:
         (a)   Approval or rejection of admission to the public sewers;
         (b)   Modification at the point of origin to permit admission; or
         (c)   Pretreatment by the owner to permit admission.
      (8)   Any water or waste which by interaction with other waste or waste
in the public sewer system releases obnoxious gases; or develops color of
undesirable intensity; or forms suspended solids in objectionable
concentration; or creates any other condition deleterious to structures and
sewage treatment processes. Such waters and wastes shall be subject to control
or shall be barred from the public sewer system as determined by the city;
      (9)   Any water or waste containing emulsified oil and/or grease
exceeding an average of 100 milligrams per liter of either soluble matter; or
      (10)   Any water or waste containing phenols or other materials which
would cause taste or odors in water supplies.
(Prior Code, § 710.090) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.10 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT AT OWNER’S EXPENSE.
   Where necessary, in the opinion of the city, the owner shall provide at his
or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to treat wastes
prior to discharge to the public sewer system. Plans, specifications, and any
other pertinent information relating to such pretreatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the city and the state’s Water Pollution Board
(Clean Water Commission), and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approval is obtained in writing. Where pretreatment
facilities are provided for any water or wastes, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her
expense.
(Prior Code, § 710.100) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.11 MANHOLE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   When required by the city, the owner of any property served by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain at his or her
expense a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. All measurements, tests,
and analyses of the characteristics of the wastes shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water, Sewage, and Industrial Wastes and shall be determined at the control
manhole or upon samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special control manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Prior Code, § 710.110) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.12 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, or sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the protection of the public sewer system from
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed, they
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
effective operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 710.120) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.13 DAMAGING SEWER SYSTEM.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is part of the municipal sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 710.130) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
§ 52.14 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PROPERTY TO INSPECT.
   Any duly authorized representative of the city bearing proper credentials
and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the
purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 710.140) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 52.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare, and convenience of the city,
to collect charges from all users who are connected to and contribute waste
water to the city’s treatment works, or to whom service is available and are
not connected to the treatment works.
   (B)   Sewer service shall be considered available if a sewer, which
ultimately discharges waste water into the city treatment works, is within 150
feet of any part of the property on which a residential, commercial,
industrial, or governmental establishment exists.
   (C)   The proceeds of such charges so derived will be used for the purpose
of operating, maintaining, and retiring the debt for such public waste water
treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 715.010) (Ord. 222, passed 2-21-1984)
§ 52.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MULTI DWELLING UNIT (MDU or MULTI-FAMILY UNIT). A classification of housing
where multiple separate housing units for residential inhabitants are contained
within one building or several buildings within one complex. UNITS can be next
to each other (side-by-side units), or stacked on top of each other (top and
bottom units). A common form is an apartment building. Many intentional
communities incorporate multi-family residences, such as in co-housing
projects.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTE WATER. Waste water that has a BOD concentration of not
more than 250 mg/l and a suspended solids concentration of not more than 300
mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All expenditures during the useful life of the
treatment works for materials, labor, utilities, and other items which are
necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity
and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CONTRIBUTOR. Any contributor to the city’s treatment works whose
lot, parcel of real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes
only.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any devices and systems for the storage, treatment,
recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or liquid
industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers, outfall sewers, sewage
collection systems, individual systems, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works,
including site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the
treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from
such treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating,
reducing, storing, treating, separating, or disposing of municipal waste or
industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and sanitary sewer
systems.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which a treatment works will be
operated.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total waste water service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the waste water treatment works.
   WATER METER. A water volume measuring and recording device furnished and/or
installed by the city or furnished and/or installed by a user and approved by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 715.020) (Ord. 222, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 455, passed 10-14-
2020)
§ 52.27 USER CHARGE ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The user charge system shall generate adequate annual revenues to pay
costs of annual operation and maintenance, including replacement, and costs
associated with debt retirement of bonded capital associated with financing the
treatment works which the city may by ordinance designate to be paid by the
user charge system. That portion of the total user charge which is designated
for operation and maintenance, including replacement of the treatment works,
shall be established by this chapter.
   (B)   That portion of the total user charge collected which is designated
for operation and maintenance, including replacement purposes, as established
in §
52.28, shall be deposited in a separate non-lapsing fund known as the
Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement Fund and will be kept in two primary
accounts as follows:
      (1)   An account designated for the specific purpose of defraying
operation and maintenance costs (excluding replacement) of the treatment works
(Operation and Maintenance Account); and
      (2)   An account designated for the specific purpose of ensuring
replacement needs over the useful life of the treatment works (Replacement
Account). Deposits in the Replacement Account shall be made annually from the
operation, maintenance, and replacement revenue in the amount of $4,752
annually.
   (C)   Fiscal year-end balances in the Operation and Maintenance Account and
in the Replacement Account shall be carried over to the same accounts in the
subsequent fiscal year and shall be used for no other purposes than those
designated for these accounts. Monies which have been transferred from other
sources to meet temporary shortages in the Operation, Maintenance, and
Replacement Fund shall be returned to their respective accounts upon
appropriate adjustment of the user charge rates for operation, maintenance, and
replacement. The user charge rates shall be adjusted such that the transferred
monies will be returned to their respective accounts within the fiscal year
following the fiscal year in which the monies were borrowed.
(Prior Code, § 715.030) (Ord. 222, passed 2-21-1984)
§ 52.28 USER CHARGE RATES.
   (A)   Customers to pay for services. Each user shall pay for the services
provided by the city based on his or her use of the treatment works as
determined by water meters acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Basis for user charges. For industrial and commercial contributors,
user charges shall be based on water used during the current month. If a
commercial or industrial contributor has a consumptive use of water, or in some
other manner uses water which is not returned to the waste water collection
system, the user charge for that contributor may be based on a waste water
meter or separate water meter installed and maintained on a waste water meter
or separate water meter installed and maintained at the contributor’s expense,
and in a manner acceptable to the city.
   (C)   Minimum charges.
      (1)   The minimum charge per month for any user of the wastewater
treatment works shall be $54.90 plus $13.22 for sewer equipment repair and
maintenance this includes the first 1,000 gallons of usage. In addition, each
contributor shall pay a user charge rate of $3.09 per 1,000 gallons of water
used or fraction thereof.
      (2)   The minimum charge per month per unit of a MDU reference Ordinance
455 for use of the wastewater treatment works shall be $54.90 plus $13.22 for
sewer equipment repair and maintenance this includes the first 1,000 gallons of
usage per unit. In addition, each unit of MDU shall pay a user charge rate of
$3.09 per 1,000 gallons of water per unit within the MDU used or fraction
thereof.
   (D)   Costs of managing discharges. Any user which discharges any toxic
pollutants which cause an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or the
sludge from the city’s treatment works, or any user which discharges any
substance which singly or by interaction with other substances causes
identifiable increases in the cost of operation, maintenance, or replacement of
the treatment works, shall pay for such increased costs. The charge to each
user shall be as determined by the responsible plant operating personnel and
approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Application. The user charge rates established in this section apply
to all users, regardless or their location, of the city’s treatment works.
(Prior Code, § 715.040) (Ord. 222, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 329, passed 4-3-2004;
Ord. 453, passed 10-14-2020; Ord. 478, passed 1-4-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Appendix A to Ord. 222 adopted 2-21-84, is on file in the office of the City
Clerk
§ 52.29 BILLING; WHEN DUE.
   (A)   All users shall be billed monthly. Billing for the use for the prior
month shall be billed as close to the twentieth of the month.
   (B)   Water bills are due by the tenth of each month and the bill shall be
considered delinquent on the eleventh of each month with a late fee of $25
being assessed. Failure to make payment of bill in full by the fifteenth of the
month will result in disconnection of service. If a water user shall fail to
pay their water bill as of the twelfth of the month, notice shall be given to
each user as close to the twelfth of the month as is reasonably possible,
informing them their water bill has not been paid, a late fee is being assessed
and notifying the user that failure to make payment of bill in full by the
fifteenth of the month by noon will result in disconnection. Under no
circumstance shall water service be discontinued due to failure to make payment
without first notifying the user.
(Prior Code, § 715.050) (Ord. 395, passed 1-6-2010; Ord. 480, passed 2-5-2025)
§ 52.30 CITY TO REVIEW USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Budget Committee of the city shall review the user charge system
of the city at least annually. In the event the review will result in a
recommendation of a change in the user charge rate as necessary to ensure that
the system generates adequate revenues to pay the cost of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, and that the system continues to provide
for the proportional distribution of operation and maintenance, including
replacement costs among users, then the budget committee shall provide that
recommendation to the Board of Aldermen who may then authorize by a motion or
resolution a change in the user charge rates. Nothing stated herein shall
preclude the Board of Aldermen from conducting its own independent review of
the user charge system without use of the Budget Committee in making its own
determination as to the need to pass a motion or resolution to revise user
charge rates due to the above stated circumstances.
   (B)   Written notice in conjunction with a regular bill shall be provided to
each user as to any change of the user charge rate and the effective date of
that change.
(Prior Code, § 715.060) (Ord. 395, passed 1-6-2010)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.45 GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply from contamination or
pollution by containing within the consumer’s internal distribution system or
private water system contaminants or pollutants which could backflow through
the service connection into the public potable water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination, containment, isolation, or control of
existing cross-connections, actual or potential, between the public or
consumer’s potable water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing
fixtures, and industrial-process systems; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public potable water system of the city.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   This subchapter will be reasonably interpreted by the water
purveyor. It is the water purveyor’s intent to recognize the varying degrees of
hazard and to apply the principle that the degree of protection shall be
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
      (2)   The water purveyor shall be primarily responsible for protection of
the public potable water distribution system from contamination or pollution
due to backflow or contaminants or pollutants through the water service
connection. The cooperation of all consumers is required to implement and
maintain the program to control cross-connections. The water purveyor and
consumer are jointly responsible for preventing contamination of the water
system.
      (3)   If, in the judgement of the water purveyor or his or her authorized
representative, cross-connection protection is required through either piping
modification or installation of an approved backflow prevention device, due
notice shall be given to the consumer. The consumer shall immediately comply by
providing the required protection at his or her own expense; and failure,
refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to provide such protection
shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until
such protection has been provided.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the overflow level rim of the
receptacle, and shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the flood level rim of the vessel, but in no case
less than one inch.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water source or system, other than the public
water supply, that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACKFLOW. The flow other than the intended direction of flow, of any foreign
liquids, gases, or substances into the distribution system of a public water
supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. Any double check valve or reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer having resilient-seated shut-off valves on both
the upstream and downstream end and the necessary test cocks as integral parts
of the assembly.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by, or in
any manner connected to, a public water system.
   CONTAINMENT. Protection of the public water supply by installing a backflow
prevention assembly or air gap separation on the main service line to a
facility.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, process
fluids, or other wastes to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical link between a potable water supply and any
other substance, fluid, or source, which makes possible contamination of the
potable water supply due to the reversal of flow of the water in the piping or
distribution system.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. An evaluation of the potential risk to public health and
the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable water system.
      (1)   HAZARD, HEALTH. Any condition, device, or practice in the water
supply system and its operation which could create or may create a danger to
the health and well being of the water consumer.
      (2)   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker,
air gap separation, or backflow prevention assembly.
      (3)   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or to the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system but which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
      (4)   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of severe damage to
the physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL PROCESS SYSTEM. Any system containing a fluid or solution, which
may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a
form or concentration such as would constitute a health, system, pollutional,
or plumbing hazard if introduced into a potable water supply.
   ISOLATION. Protection of a facility’s internal plumbing system by installing
a backflow prevention assembly, air gap separation, or other backflow
prevention device on an individual fixture, appurtenance, or system.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, or
biological) in water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
hazard or impair the usefulness of the water to a degree which does not create
an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and unreasonably
affect such waters for domestic use.
   PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
supplying water to the general public which is satisfactory for drinking,
culinary, and domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION means the downstream end of the meter.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner, operator, or individual in responsible charge of
a public water system.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.47 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or
consumer’s water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-
connections are abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the water purveyor,
and as required by the laws and regulations of the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the water purveyor and the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   No water service connection shall be installed or maintained to any
premises in which the plumbing system, facilities, and fixtures have not been
constructed and installed using acceptable plumbing practices considered by the
water purveyor as necessary for the protection of health and safety.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.48 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
water purveyor, or his or her authorized representative, for the conduction of
surveys and investigations of water use practices within the consumer’s
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-connections
to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or pollutants could
backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the water purveyor or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system, through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.49 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   The type of protection required by this subchapter shall depend on the
degree of hazard which exists, as follows.
   (A)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
   (C)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly or an approved-double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public potable water system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to
health.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.50 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the
judgement of the water purveyor or the state’s Department of Natural Resources,
actual or potential hazards to the public potable water system exist. The type
and degree of protection required shall be commensurate with the degree of
hazard.
   (B)   An approved air gap separation or reduced pressure principle-backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed at the service connection or within any
premises where, in the judgement of the water purveyor or the state’s
Department of Natural Resources, the nature and extent of activities on the
premises or the materials used in connection with the activities, or materials
stored on the premises would present an immediate and dangerous hazard to
health should a cross-connection occur, even though such cross-connection may
not exist at the time the backflow prevention device is required to be
installed. This includes, but is not limited to, the following situations:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless the quality of the
auxiliary supply is acceptable to the water purveyor and the state’s Department
of Natural Resources;
      (2)   Premises having internal cross-connections that are not
correctable, or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
ascertain whether or not cross-connections exist;
      (3)   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspection for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure the cross-connections do not exist;
      (4)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished;
      (5)   Premises which, due to the nature or the enterprise therein, are
subject to recurring modification or expansion;
      (6)   Premises on which any substance is handled under pressure so as to
permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross-connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters; or
      (7)   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
such that if backsiphonage or backpressure should occur, a serious health
hazard may result.
   (C)   The types of facilities listed in §
52.55 fall into one or more of the categories of premises where an approved air
gap separation or reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly is
required by the water purveyor and the state’s Department of Natural Resources
to protect the public water supply and must be installed at these facilities
unless all hazardous or potentially hazardous conditions have been eliminated
or corrected by other methods to the satisfaction of the water purveyor and the
state’s Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.51 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention assembly required to protect the facilities
listed in §
52.55 shall be of a model or construction approved by the water purveyor and
the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, measured vertically above the top rim of the
vessel, but in no case less than one inch.
      (2)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly shall be approved by the water purveyor, and shall
appear on the current list of approved backflow prevention assemblies
established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention assemblies approved by the water purveyor
at the time of installation and properly maintained shall, except for
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
this subchapter so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the water system. Whenever the existing assembly is
moved from its present location, or requires more than minimum maintenance, or
when the water purveyor finds that the maintenance constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by a backflow prevention assembly meeting
the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.52 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter shall be
installed at a location and in a manner approved by the water purveyor and
shall be installed at the expense of the water consumer.
   (B)   Backflow prevention assemblies installed on the service line to the
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter, as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   (C)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be located so as to be readily
accessible for maintenance and testing, protected from freezing. No reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be located where it will
be submerged or subject to flooding by any fluid.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.53 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention assemblies required by this subchapter are installed to have
inspection, tests, and overhauls made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air-gap separations shall be inspected at the time of installation
and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at the time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
inspected and tested for tightness at the time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter.
   (B)   Inspections, tests, and overhauls of backflow prevention assemblies
shall be made at the expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by a
state certified backflow prevention assembly tester.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention assemblies required by this subchapter
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay.
   (D)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention assembly from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs, and overhauls shall be made
available to the water purveyor upon request.
   (E)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed, or otherwise made ineffective.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.54 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The water purveyor shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice
to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention assembly required by this subchapter is not installed,
tested, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the water purveyor, or if it
is found that the backflow prevention assembly has been removed or bypassed, or
if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with this subchapter to the satisfaction of the water purveyor.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.55 TYPES OF FACILITIES REPRESENTING CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARDS.
   Facilities representing cross-connection hazards include:
   (A)   Aircraft and missile manufacturing plants;
   (B)   Automotive plants including those plants which manufacture
motorcycles, automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles, and construction and
agricultural equipment;
   (C)   Potable water dispensing stations which are served by a public water
system;
   (D)   Beverage bottling plants including dairies and breweries;
   (E)   Canneries, packing houses, and reduction plants;
   (F)   Car washes;
   (G)   Chemical, biological, and radiological laboratories, including those
in high schools, trade schools, colleges, universities, and research
institutions;
   (H)   Hospitals, clinics, medical buildings, autopsy facilities, morgues,
mortuaries, and other medical facilities;
   (I)   Metal or plastic manufacturing, fabrication, cleaning, plating, or
processing facilities;
   (J)   Plants manufacturing paper and paper products;
   (K)   Plants manufacturing, refining, compounding, or processing fertilizers
film, herbicides, natural or synthetic rubber, pesticides, petroleum or
petroleum products, pharmaceuticals, radiological materials, or any chemical
which would be a contaminant to the public water system;
   (L)   Commercial facilities that use herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers, or
any chemical which would be a contaminant to the public water system;
   (M)   Plants processing, blending, or refining animal, vegetable, or mineral
oils;
   (N)   Commercial laundries and dye works;
   (O)   Sewage, storm water, and industrial waste treatment plants and pumping
stations;
   (P)   Waterfront facilities including piers, docks, marinas, and shipyards;
   (Q)   Industrial facilities which recycle water;
   (R)   Restricted or classified facilities or other facilities closed to the
supplier of water or the department;
   (S)   Fire sprinkler systems using any chemical additives;
   (T)   Auxiliary water systems;
   (U)   Irrigation systems with facilities for injection of pesticides,
herbicides, or other chemicals or with provisions for creating back pressure;
   (V)   Portable tanks for transporting water taken from a public water
system; and
   (W)   Facilities which have pumped or repressurized cooling or heating
systems that are served by a public water system, including all boiler systems.
(Ord. 327, passed - -2004)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.01 to
52.14 shall be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for said person to cease
violation and/or abate or correct the condition or conditions causing the same.
      (2)   The notice provided for in division (A) above may be served by any
law enforcement officer or city employee. The person serving the notice shall
make a written return on a copy thereof, subscribing his or her name thereto,
and return the same to the City Clerk. The return shall state how, when, where,
and on whom the notice was served. Such notice may be served by delivering the
same to the parties to be notified, or by leaving a copy thereof at the usual
place of abode of the person with a member of the family over the age of 15
years, or by leaving a copy thereof with any person in charge of the office of
any partnership, firm, corporation, or government agency to whom said notice
shall be directed.
      (3)   Any person or persons, including every officer, agent, or employee
of any partnership, firm, government agency, or corporation, who shall violate
or shall cause, maintain, and allow any violation of §§
52.01 to
52.14 and who shall fail to cease said violation of §§
52.01 to
52.14, or abate and correct the cause of said violation within the time
specified in a written notice to cease said violation, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 and each day such violations are continued shall be deemed a separate
and distinct offense punishable by a like fine.
(Prior Code, § 710.150) (Ord. 204A, passed 8-9-1983)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
      
72.   ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
74.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
75.   STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
      
76.   PARKING, STOPPING, AND LOADING
      
77.   TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
78.   VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
      
79.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Model traffic code adoption and exceptions
   
70.02   Definitions
§ 70.01 MODEL TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTION AND EXCEPTIONS.
   RSMo. Chapter 300, consisting of §§ 300.010 through 300.600, as amended,
commonly known as the “Model Traffic Ordinance” is hereby adopted as and for
the traffic ordinance of this city with the exception of the following: RSMo §§
300.010(40), 300.015, 300.020, 300.035, 300.070, 300.105.1(2), 300.155,
300.160, 300.165, 300.170, and 300.400. All references to “Traffic Division” in
the Model Traffic Ordinance are changed to read “Police Department”. All
references to street cars have been deleted.
(Prior Code, § 300.010)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or ALLEYWAY. Any street with a roadway of less than 20 feet in width.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized vehicle manufactured and used exclusively
for off-highway use which is 50 inches or less in width, with an unladen dry
weight of 600 pounds or less, traveling on three, four, or more low pressure
tires, with a seat designed to be straddled by the operator and handlebars for
steering control.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. A vehicle publicly owned and operated as an
ambulance, or a vehicle publicly owned and operated by the State Highway
Patrol, Police, or Fire Department, Sheriff, Constable or Deputy Sheriff,
Traffic Officer, or any privately owned vehicle operated as an ambulance when
responding to emergency calls.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any 600 feet along the highway there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, or office
buildings, railroad stations, and public buildings which occupy at least 300
feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides of the
highway.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS (OR TRAFFIC) DISTRICT. All streets and portions of streets
within the area described by city ordinance as such.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal
right of access to or from the same
except at such points only and in such manner as may be determined by the
public authority having jurisdiction over the highway, street, or roadway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight (or passengers).
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict; or
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle not operated exclusively upon
tracks, except farm tractors and motorized bicycles.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any two-wheeled or three-wheeled device having an
automatic transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity of not more than 50
cubic centimeters, which produces less than three gross brake horsepower, and
is capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph
on level ground.
   MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLE. Motorized play vehicles shall includes mini
motorcycles, pocket bikes, motorized scooters, go-carts, electric or gas
powered skate boards, and any other vehicle that is capable of transporting a
person or persons at a speed in excess of five mph, is self propelled by a
motor or engine and that is not otherwise defined by the state statutes or the
city code as a motor vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, or motorized bicycle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the city’s Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more is in the main improved with residences or residences and
buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed, and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and
the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or
discharging passengers.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway maintained by the State of Missouri as a part of
the state highway system.
   STOP or STOPPING. 
      (1)   When required, complete cessation from movement; and
      (2)   When prohibited, any halting, even momentarily of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the uses of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic
is given preferential right-of-way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield the right-of-way
to vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a
yield sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAFFIC ENGINEER. The TRAFFIC ENGINEER shall be a person designated by the
Mayor, or if no such person is designated, then the Chief of Police.
   VEHICLE. Any mechanical device on wheels, designed primarily for use, or
used, on highways, except motorized bicycles, motorized play vehicles, vehicles
propelled or drawn by horses or human power, or vehicles used exclusively on
fixed rails or tracks, cotton trailers, or motorized wheelchairs operated by
handicapped persons.
(Prior Code, § 300.020) (Ord. 365, passed 2-2-2008)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Records of traffic violations
   
71.002   Police Department to investigate accidents
   
71.003   Traffic accident reports
   
71.004   Driver files to be maintained
   
71.005   Police Department to submit annual traffic safety report
   
71.006   Police Department to designate method of identifying funeral
processions
   
71.007   City Traffic Engineer
   
71.008   Emergency and experimental regulations
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.020   Driving while license suspended or revoked
   
71.021   Operation of motor vehicle without proper license prohibited;
motorcycles; special license
   
71.022   Prohibited uses of license
   
71.023   Exemptions from license law
   
71.024   State vehicle license plates required
   
71.025   Method of displaying license plates
   
71.026   Unauthorized plates, tags, stickers, and signs
   
71.027   License plates on vehicles displayed for sale
   
71.028   Certificate of ownership required for registered vehicle
   
71.029   Transfer of certificate of ownership upon sale of vehicle
   
71.030   Removal of plates on transfer of vehicle; use by purchaser
   
71.031   Sale by dealer
   
71.032   False information by dealer
Insurance
   
71.045   Financial responsibility required
   
71.046   Conviction for failure to maintain financial responsibility or court-
ordered supervision, court to forward to revenue, failure to appear in court;
procedure
   
71.047   Display of false evidence of insurance, penalty, confiscation of false
evidence, misdemeanor
   
71.048   Alteration, production, or sale of invalid insurance card, misdemeanor
Pedestrians’ Rights and Duties
   
71.060   Pedestrians subject to traffic control devices
   
71.061   Pedestrians’ right-of-way in crosswalks
   
71.062   Pedestrians to use right-half of crosswalks
   
71.063   Crossing at right angles
   
71.064   When pedestrian shall yield
   
71.065   Prohibited crossing
   
71.066   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
71.067   Drivers to exercise highest degree of care
Bicycles and Motorized Bicycles
   
71.080   Bicycle and motorized bicycle, defined
   
71.081   Brakes required
   
71.082   Lights and reflectors, when required; standards to be met
   
71.083   Rights and duties of bicycle and motorized bicycle riders
   
71.084   Riding to right, required for bicycles and motorized bicycles,
mandatory use of bicycle path by bicycles
   
71.085   Motorized bicycles; license required
   
71.086   Equipment required
Golf Carts and Motorized Wheel Chairs
   
71.100   Definitions
   
71.101   Operation on city streets
 
   
71.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall keep a record of all violations of the
traffic ordinances of the city or of the state vehicle laws of which any person
has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
alleged offenses. Such record shall be so maintained as to show all types of
violations and the total of each. Said record shall accumulate during at least
a five-year period and from that time on the record shall be maintained
complete for at least the most recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices of violations shall be
serially numbered. For each month and year a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   (C)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 305.010)
§ 71.002 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate traffic
accidents, to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those persons charged
with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
(Prior Code, § 305.020)
§ 71.003 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be filed
alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use and
information of the City Traffic Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 305.030)
§ 71.004 DRIVER FILES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable record of all traffic
accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and complaints reported for each
driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under the name of the driver
concerned.
(Prior Code, § 305.040)
§ 71.005 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO SUBMIT ANNUAL TRAFFIC SAFETY REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Mayor.
   (B)   Such report shall contain information on traffic matters in the city
as follows:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured, and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
      (3)   The plans and recommendations of the Police Department for future
traffic safety activities.
(Prior Code, § 305.050)
§ 71.006 POLICE DEPARTMENT TO DESIGNATE METHOD OF IDENTIFYING FUNERAL
PROCESSIONS.
   The Police Department shall designate a type of pennant or other identifying
insignia to be displayed upon, or other method to be employed to identify the
vehicles in funeral processions.
(Prior Code, § 305.060)
§ 71.007 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER.
   (A)   The office of City Traffic Engineer is established. The Mayor shall
serve as City Traffic Engineer in addition to his or her other functions, and
shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic as provided in
this title.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine the installation and proper
timing and maintenance of traffic control devices, conduct engineering analyses
of traffic accidents and devise remedial measures, conduct engineering
investigation of traffic conditions, plan the operation of traffic on the
streets and highways of the city, and cooperate with other city officials in
the development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and carry out
the additional powers and duties imposed by ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.070)
§ 71.008 EMERGENCY AND EXPERIMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police, by and with the approval of the City
Traffic Engineer, is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the city and to make and
enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special
conditions.
      (2)   No such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect
for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer may test traffic control devices under
actual conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 305.080)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.020 DRIVING WHILE LICENSE SUSPENDED OR REVOKED.
   A person commits the offense of driving while revoked if he or she operates
a motor vehicle on a highway when his or her license or driving privilege has
been canceled, suspended, or revoked under the laws of this state and acts with
criminal negligence with respect to knowledge of the fact that his or her
driving privilege has been canceled, suspended, or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 390.010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.021 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT PROPER LICENSE PROHIBITED;
MOTORCYCLES; SPECIAL LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided for by law, it shall be unlawful for any person,
except those expressly exempted by §
71.023, to:
   (A)   Operate any vehicle upon any highway in this city unless the person
has a valid license;
   (B)   Operate a motorcycle or motor tricycle upon any highway of this city
unless such person has a valid license that shows the person has successfully
passed an examination for the operation of a motorcycle or motor tricycle as
prescribed by the Director. The Director may indicate such upon a valid license
issued to such person, or shall issue a license restricting the applicant to
the operation of a motorcycle or motor tricycle if the actual demonstration,
required by RSMo. § 302.173, is conducted on such vehicle;
   (C)   Authorize or knowingly permit a motorcycle or motor tricycle owned by
such person or under such person’s control to be driven upon any highway by any
person whose license does not indicate that the person has passed the
examination for the operation of a motorcycle or motor tricycle or has been
issued an instruction permit therefor;
   (D)   Operate a motor vehicle with an instruction permit or license issued
to another person; or
   (E)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle, except when operating under an
instruction permit as provided for in RSMo. § 302.720.
(Prior Code, § 390.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.022 PROHIBITED USES OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Display or to permit to be displayed, or to have in his or her
possession, any license knowing the same to be fictitious or to have been
canceled, suspended, revoked, disqualified, or altered;
   (B)   Lend to or knowingly permit the use of by another any license issued
to the person so lending or permitting the use thereof;
   (C)   Display or to represent as one’s own any license not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
   (D)   Fail or refuse to surrender to the Clerk of any Division of the
Circuit Court or the Director, any license which has been suspended, canceled,
disqualified, or revoked, as provided by law;
   (E)   Use a false or fictitious name or give a false or fictitious address
on any application for a license, or any renewal or duplicate thereof, or
knowingly to make a false statement;
   (F)   Knowingly conceal a material fact, or otherwise commit a fraud in any
such application;
   (G)   Authorize or consent to any motor vehicle owned by him or her or under
his or her control to be driven by any person, when he or she has knowledge
that such person has no legal right to do so, or for any person to drive any
motor vehicle in violation of any of the provisions of RSMo. §§ 302.010 to
302.780;
   (H)   Employ a person to operate a motor vehicle in the transportation of
persons or property, with knowledge that such person has not complied with the
provisions of RSMo. §§ 302.010 to 302.780, or whose license has been revoked,
suspended, canceled, or disqualified; or who fails to produce his or her
license upon demand of any person or persons authorized to make such demand;
   (I)   Operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of the restrictions
imposed in a restricted license; or
   (J)   Fail to carry his or her instruction permit, operator’s or chauffeur’s
license while operating a vehicle, and to display instruction permit or said
license upon demand of any police officer, court official, or any other duly
authorized person for inspection, when demand is made therefor. Failure to
exhibit his or her instruction permit or license as aforesaid shall be
presumptive evidence that said person is not a duly licensed operator or
chauffeur.
(Prior Code, § 390.030) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.023 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE LAW.
   The following persons are exempt from license hereunder:
   (A)   Any person while operating any farm tractor or implement of husbandry
temporarily operated or moved on a highway;
   (B)   A non-resident who is at least 16 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid license issued to him or her in his or her
home state or country;
   (C)   A non-resident who is at least 18 years of age and who has in his or
her immediate possession a valid license issued to him or her in his or her
home state or country which allows such person to operate a motor vehicle in
the transportation of persons or property as classified in RSMo. § 302.015; or
   (D)   Convicted offenders of the Department of Corrections who have not been
convicted of a motor vehicle felony as follows: driving while intoxicated,
failing to stop after an accident and disclosing his or her identity, or
driving a motor vehicle without the owner’s consent may operate state-owned
trucks for the benefit of the correctional facilities, provided that such
offender shall be accompanied by a correctional officer or other staff person
in such truck.
(Prior Code, § 390.040)
§ 71.024 STATE VEHICLE LICENSE PLATES REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle or trailer upon any street
or highway of this city, unless such motor vehicle or trailer has properly
displayed a valid license plate or plates or temporary permit issued to the
lawful owner of the vehicle by the state’s Department of Revenue, except that
any person who is a non-resident of the state may operate or park any motor
vehicle or trailer upon any street or highway of this city; provided the motor
vehicle or trailer has been duly registered for the current year in the state,
country, or other place of which the owner is a resident; provided that at all
times such motor vehicle or trailer is being operated or parked upon the
streets or highways of this city, the valid license plate or plates or
temporary permit is properly displayed on such vehicle or trailer.
(Prior Code, § 390.050) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.025 METHOD OF DISPLAYING LICENSE PLATES.
   No motor vehicle or trailer shall be operated on any highway of this city
unless it shall have displayed thereon the license plate or set of license
plates issued by the Director of Revenue and authorized by RSMo. § 301.140.
Each such plate shall be securely fastened to the motor vehicle in a manner so
that all parts thereof shall be plainly visible and reasonably clean so that
the reflective qualities thereof are not impaired. License plates shall be
fastened to all motor vehicles except trucks, tractors, truck tractors, or
truck-tractors licensed in excess of 12,000 pounds on the front and rear of
such vehicles not less than eight nor more than 48 inches above the ground,
with the letters and numbers thereon right side up. The license plates on
trailers, motorcycles, motor tricycles, and motor scooters shall be displayed
on the rear of such vehicles, with the letters and numbers thereon right side
up. The license plate on buses, other than school buses, and on trucks,
tractors, truck tractors, or truck-tractors licensed in excess of 12,000 pounds
shall be displayed on the front of such vehicles not less than eight nor more
than 48 inches above the ground, with the letters and numbers thereon right
side up, or if two plates are issued for the vehicle pursuant to RSMo. §
301.130(5), displayed in the same manner on the front and rear of such
vehicles. The license plate or plates authorized by RSMo. § 301.140, when
properly attached, shall be prima facie evidence that the required fees have
been paid.
(Prior Code, § 390.060) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.026 UNAUTHORIZED PLATES, TAGS, STICKERS, AND SIGNS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or trailer on which there is
displayed on the front or rear thereof any other plate, tag, or placard bearing
any number except the plate furnished by the Director of Revenue or the placard
herein authorized, and the official license tag of any municipality of this
state, nor shall there be displayed on any motor vehicle or trailer a placard,
sign, or tag bearing the words “license lost”, “license applied for”, or words
of similar import, as a substitute for such number plates or such placard.
(Prior Code, § 390.070) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.027 LICENSE PLATES ON VEHICLES DISPLAYED FOR SALE.
   No person shall show, exhibit, display, or have in possession for the
purpose of sale any motor vehicle bearing or displaying thereon any number or
license plates, except those of the dealer or owner so displaying said motor
vehicle; provided however, that where the motor vehicle is placed on
consignment with a dealer by the owner thereof, there may be displayed a number
or license plate issued to the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 390.080) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.028 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP REQUIRED FOR REGISTERED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate in this city a motor vehicle
or trailer required to be registered as provided by law, unless a certificate
of ownership has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 390.090) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.029 TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP UPON SALE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to buy or sell in this city any motor
vehicle or trailer registered under the laws of this state unless at the time
of delivery thereof there shall pass between the parties a certificate of
ownership with an assignment thereof as provided in RSMo. § 301.210, as
amended, and the sale of any motor vehicle or trailer registered under the laws
of this state, without the assignment of such certificate of ownership, shall
be fraudulent and void.
(Prior Code, § 390.100) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.030 REMOVAL OF PLATES ON TRANSFER OF VEHICLE; USE BY PURCHASER.
   Upon the transfer of ownership of any motor vehicle or trailer, the
certificate of registration and the right to use the number plates shall expire
and the number plates shall be removed by the owner at the time of the transfer
of possession, and it shall be unlawful for any person other than the person to
whom such number plates were originally issued to have the same in his or her
possession whether in use or not; except that the buyer of a motor vehicle or
trailer who trades in a motor vehicle or trailer may attach the license plates
from the traded-in motor vehicle or trailer to the newly purchased motor
vehicle or trailer. The operation of a motor vehicle with such transferred
plates shall be lawful for no more than 30 days. As used in this section, the
term TRADE-IN MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAILER shall include any single motor vehicle
or trailer sold by the buyer of the newly purchased vehicle or trailer, as long
as the license plates for the trade-in motor vehicle or trailer are still
valid.
(Prior Code, § 390.110) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.031 SALE BY DEALER.
   Upon the sale of a motor vehicle or trailer by a dealer, a buyer who has
made application for registration, by mail or otherwise, may operate the same
for a period of 30 days after taking possession thereof, if during such period
the motor vehicle or trailer shall have attached thereto, in the manner
required by RSMo. § 301.130, number plates issued to the dealer. Upon
application and presentation of satisfactory evidence that the buyer has
applied for registration, a dealer may furnish such number plates to the buyer
for such temporary use. In such event, the dealer shall require the buyer to
deposit the sum of $10.50, to be returned to the buyer upon return of the
number plates as a guarantee that said buyer will return to the dealer such
number plates within 30 days.
(Ord. 302, passed 7-6-2000)
§ 71.032 FALSE INFORMATION BY DEALER.
   No dealer shall advise any purchaser of a motor vehicle or trailer that such
purchaser may drive such a motor vehicle or trailer without compliance with the
foregoing license requirements.
(Prior Code, § 390.130) Penalty, see §
71.999
INSURANCE
§ 71.045 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner of a motor vehicle registered in this state or required to be
registered in this state shall operate the vehicle, or authorize any other
person to operate the vehicle register or maintain registration of a motor
vehicle, or permit another person to operate such vehicle, upon the streets or
the alleys of this city, unless the owner maintains the financial
responsibility as required in this section which conforms to the requirements
of the laws of this state. Furthermore, no person shall operate a motor vehicle
owned by another with the knowledge that the owner has not maintained financial
responsibility unless such person has financial responsibility which covers the
person’s operation of the other’s vehicle.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY shall
mean the ability to respond in damages for liability on account of accidents
occurring after the effective date of proof of said financial responsibility,
arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of a motor vehicle, in the
amount of $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one
accident, and, subject to said limit for one person, in the amount of $50,000
because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident, and in the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident.
   (C)   Proof of financial responsibility may be shown by any of the
following:
      (1)   An insurance identification card issued by a motor vehicle insurer
or by the state’s Director of Revenue for self-insurance. A motor vehicle
liability insurance policy, a motor vehicle liability insurance binder, or
receipt which contains the name and address of the insurer, the name and
address of the named insured, the policy number, the effective dates of the
policy and a description by year and make of the vehicle, or at least five
digits of the vehicle identification number or the word “Fleet” if the
insurance policy covers five or more motor vehicles shall be satisfactory
evidence of insurance in lieu of an insurance identification card;
      (2)   A certificate of the State Treasurer of a cash or security deposit
according to RSMo. § 303.240; or
      (3)   A surety bond according to RSMo. § 303.230.
   (D)   Proof of financial responsibility shall be carried at all times in the
insured motor vehicle or by the operator of the motor vehicle if the proof of
financial responsibility is effective as to the operator rather than to the
vehicle. The operator of an insured motor vehicle shall exhibit the insurance
identification card on the demand of any peace officer, commercial vehicle
enforcement officer, or commercial vehicle inspector who lawfully stops such
operator or investigates an accident while that officer or inspector is engaged
in the performance of the officer’s or inspector’s duties.
(Ord. 303, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.046 CONVICTION FOR FAILURE TO MAINTAIN FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OR COURT-
ORDERED SUPERVISION, COURT TO FORWARD TO REVENUE, FAILURE TO APPEAR IN COURT;
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a court convicts a person of a violation of RSMo. § 303.025,
or enters an order of court-ordered supervision, the Clerk of the Court shall
within ten days forward a report of the conviction or order of supervision to
the Director of Revenue in a form prescribed by the Department of Revenue. In
any case where the person charged with the violation fails to appear in court,
the procedures provided in RSMo. § 302.341 shall apply. For the purposes of
this section, the term COURT-ORDERED SUPERVISION is used to indicate where a
court of record may, upon a plea or finding of guilt, defer further proceedings
of a sentence, and enter an order for supervision of the defendant, if the
defendant is charged with a violation in which case no points shall be
assessed.
   (B)   The Department of Revenue shall keep records of such reports; however,
reports of court-ordered supervision shall not be released to any outside
source, except the affected operator and those entities provided for in RSMo. §
32.091(4), and shall be used only to inform the director and the courts that
such operator has previously been assigned court supervision.
(Ord. 303, passed 8-1-2000)
§ 71.047 DISPLAY OF FALSE EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE, PENALTY, CONFISCATION OF FALSE
EVIDENCE, MISDEMEANOR.
   No person shall display evidence of insurance to a law enforcement officer
knowing there is no valid liability insurance in effect on the motor vehicle as
required pursuant to this subchapter, or knowing the evidence of insurance is
illegally altered, counterfeit, or otherwise invalid as evidence of insurance.
If the law enforcement officer issues a citation to a motor vehicle operator
for displaying invalid evidence of insurance, the officer shall confiscate the
evidence for presentation in court.
(Ord. 303, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.048 ALTERATION, PRODUCTION, OR SALE OF INVALID INSURANCE CARD,
MISDEMEANOR.
   No person shall alter an invalid insurance card to make it appear valid. No
person knowingly shall make, sell, or otherwise make available an invalid or
counterfeit insurance card.
(Ord. 303, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
71.999
PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES
§ 71.060 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as heretofore
declared in §§
73.01 to
73.11, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.010)
§ 71.061 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not apply under the conditions stated in §
71.064(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 345.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.062 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT-HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 345.030)
§ 71.063 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 345.040) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.064 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
71.065 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(Prior Code, § 345.050)
§ 71.065 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
   (C)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk upon any
street designated by ordinance.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
(Prior Code, § 345.060) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.066 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Prior Code, § 345.070) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.067 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE HIGHEST DEGREE OF CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this title, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise the highest degree of care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 345.080)
BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES
§ 71.080 BICYCLE AND MOTORIZED BICYCLE, DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every vehicle propelled, solely by human power upon which any
person may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. Any two- or three-wheeled device having an automatic
transmission and a motor with a cylinder capacity of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters, which produces less than three gross brake horsepower, and is
capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph on
level ground. A MOTORIZED BICYCLE shall be considered a motor vehicle for
purposes of any homeowners’ or renters’ insurance policy.
(Prior Code, § 385.010)
§ 71.081 BRAKES REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle and motorized bicycle shall be equipped with a brake or brakes
which will enable its driver to stop the bicycle or motorized bicycle within 25
feet from a speed of ten mph on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 385.020)
§ 71.082 LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS, WHEN REQUIRED; STANDARDS TO BE MET.
   Every bicycle and motorized bicycle when in use on a street or highway
during the period from one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise shall be equipped with the following:
   (A)   A front-facing lamp on the front or carried by the rider which shall
emit a white light visible at night under normal atmospheric conditions on a
straight, level, unlighted roadway at 500 feet;
   (B)   A rear-facing red reflector, at least two square inches in reflective
surface area, or a rear-facing red lamp on the rear which shall be visible at
night under normal atmospheric conditions on a straight, level, unlighted
roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under the lower beams of vehicle
headlights at 600 feet;
   (C)   Reflective material and/or lights on any part of the bicyclist’s
pedals, crank arms, shoes, or lower leg visible from the front and the rear at
night under normal atmospheric conditions on a straight, level, unlighted
roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under the lawful lower beams of vehicle
headlights at 200 feet; and
   (D)   Reflective material and/or lights visible on each side of the bicycle
or bicyclist and visible at night under normal atmospheric conditions on a
straight, level, unlighted roadway when viewed by a vehicle driver under the
lawful lower beams of vehicle headlights at 300 feet. The provisions of this
division (D) shall not apply to motorized bicycles which comply with National
Highway Traffic and Safety Administration regulations relating to reflectors on
motorized bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 385.030)
§ 71.083 RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF BICYCLE AND MOTORIZED BICYCLE RIDERS.
   Every person riding a bicycle or motorized bicycle upon a street or highway
shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties
applicable to the driver of a vehicle as provided by RSMo. Chapter 304 and this
Title, except as to special regulations in this chapter, and except as to those
provisions of RSMo. Chapter 304, and this Title, which by their nature can have
no application.
(Prior Code, § 385.040)
§ 71.084 RIDING TO RIGHT, REQUIRED FOR BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES,
MANDATORY USE OF BICYCLE PATH BY BICYCLES.
   Every person operating a bicycle or motorized bicycle at less than the
posted speed or slower than the flow of traffic upon a street or highway shall
ride as near to the right side of the roadway as safe, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction, except when
making a left turn, when avoiding hazardous conditions, when the lane is too
narrow to share with another vehicle, or when on a one-way street. Bicyclists
may ride abreast when not impeding other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 385.050)
§ 71.085 MOTORIZED BICYCLES; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle on any highways, streets,
or roads in this city unless the person has a valid license to operate a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No motorized bicycle may be operated on any public thoroughfare
located within this city which has been designated as part of the federal
interstate highway system.
(Prior Code, § 385.070) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.086 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle on any highways, streets, or
roads in this city unless it is equipped in accordance with the minimum
requirements for construction and equipment of MOPEDS, Regulation VESC-17,
approved July, 1977, as promulgated by the Vehicle Equipment Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 385.080) Penalty, see §
71.999
GOLF CARTS AND MOTORIZED WHEEL CHAIRS
§ 71.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CARTS. A motor vehicle that is designed and manufactured for operation
on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable
of exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. A motorized vehicle with three or four wheels that is
not designed to be operated at a speed of more than 15 mph, its purpose to
include, but is not limited to, the use for transportation of a single person
that is unable to ambulate great distances without the assistance of such
wheelchair.
   STREET. The entire right-of-way in between the curb boundary lines and
shoulder of public property, any part thereof is open to the use of public for
purposes of pedestrian bicycle or vehicular travel, including parking.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-2-2009)
§ 71.101 OPERATION ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Golf carts shall be operated on the shoulder of the right-of-way or,
in the absence of an improved shoulder, on the right-hand most portion of the
right-of-way and in the same direction as traffic on the right-of-way lane or
side then being traveled upon.
   (B)   Motorized wheelchairs shall be operated on any sidewalk, path, or
walkway designed by use for pedestrians or, in the absence of a sidewalk, may,
be operated on the shoulder of the right-of-way or in the absence of an
improved shoulder on the right hand most portion of the right-of-way and in the
same direction as traffic on the right-of-way lane or side being traveled upon.
   (C)   Every physically disabled person operating a motorized wheelchair
shall have all the rights and duties applicable to pedestrians that are
contained in the city code except those provisions which by their nature have
no application.
   (D)   Every non-physically disabled person operating a golf cart upon city
roadways shall adhere to all rules of the road application to motorized
vehicles set forth in the city code and state law except those provisions which
by their nature have no application.
   (E)   A golf cart may be operated on a street by persons who are at least 16
years of age and possess a valid driver’s license.
   (F)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a street in a negligent manner.
For the purposes of this section, TO OPERATE IN A NEGLIGENT MANNER is defined
as the operation of a golf cart in such a manner as to endanger any person or
property, or to obstruct, hinder, or impede the lawful course of travel of any
other vehicle or the lawful use by the pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks,
paths, trails, walkways, or parks.
   (G)   Neither golf carts nor motorized wheelchairs shall be operated by a
person under the influence of alcohol or any controlled substance not
prescribed by a physician.
   (H)   A golf cart or motorized vehicle shall not be operated at any time on
a state or federal highway except for the purpose of operating upon such
highway in order to cross a portion of the state highway system or federal
highway system which intersects a municipal street.
   (I)   No golf cart or motorized wheelchair shall cross any state or federal
highway at an intersection where the highway being crossed has a posted speed
of more than 45 mph.
   (J)   Golf carts operated on city streets shall be equipped with adequate
brakes and shall meet any other safety requirements imposed by this subchapter.
   (K)   Golf carts are not subject to the registration provisions of RSMo.
Chapter 301.
   (L)   Golf carts and motorized wheelchairs shall not be operated on a street
during one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise unless the
golf cart or motorized wheelchair has a lamp on the front which shall emit a
white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front and with
a red reflector on the rear of the vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible
on the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector. A light emitting
flashing taillight visible from the rear may also be used in addition to the
red rear reflector.
   (M)   Owners of golf carts who wish to operate their golf cart upon city
streets under the terms of this subchapter must register said vehicle yearly
through the Chief of Police at the cost of $15 per year. The Chief of Police
will inspect the golf cart to assure it is in compliance with this subchapter.
   (N)   Any operator of a golf cart on the city streets of the city must be
able to produce the annual permit upon request of the Chief of Police.
   (O)   Any golf cart operated on a city street of the city is subject to
being stopped by the Chief of Police to verify its legal operation on city
streets.
(Ord. 392, passed 9-2-2009)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §
71.045 shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and shall, upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $300 for each
and every violation.
   (C)    Any person convicted of violating §
71.047 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
71.048 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person 17 years of age or older who violates any provision of §§
71.080 to
71.086 is guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $25. If any person under
17 years of age violates any provision of this chapter, in the presence of a
peace officer possessing the duty and power of arrest for violation of the
general criminal laws of the state or for violation of ordinances of counties
or municipalities of the state, said officer may impound the bicycle or
motorized bicycle involved for a period not to exceed five days upon issuance
of a receipt to the child riding it or to its owner.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized wheelchair or golf cart in
violation of §§
71.100 and
71.101. Operation of a golf cart by a person who is 16 years of age or younger
who is not a licensed driver shall result in an ordinance violation being
issued to the owner of the golf cart in addition to the underage operator being
referred to the County Juvenile Court.
(Prior Code, § 385.060) (Ord. 303, passed 8-1-2000; Ord. 392, passed 9-2-2009)
CHAPTER 72: ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
72.02   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
72.03   Persons propelling push carts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations
   
72.04   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted
   
72.05   Use of motorized play vehicles restricted
   
72.06   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
72.07   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.08   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
72.09   Sirens and flashing lights emergency use, persons authorized
   
72.10   Immediate notice of accident
   
72.11   Written report of accident
   
72.12   When driver unable to report
   
72.13   Public inspection of reports relating to accidents
   
72.14   Leaving the scene of a motor vehicle accident
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws of the city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic
in the city.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 310.010)
§ 72.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 310.020) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this Title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this Title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 310.030)
§ 72.04 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians.
   (B)   This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a play
street as authorized by ordinance of the city.
(Prior Code, § 310.040) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 USE OF MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall ride on or operate a motorized play vehicle, as
defined in §
70.02, upon any street, highway, roadway, or sidewalk within the city or within
the boundaries of any city park.
   (B)   No motorized play vehicle may be operated on any private property or
private roadway without the express written permission of the owner of the
property or roadway, the person entitled to immediate possession of the
property or the authorized agent of either.
   (C)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle in a manner causing
excessive, unnecessary, or offensive noise which disturbs the peace and quiet
of any neighbor or neighborhood, or which causes discomfort or annoyance to a
reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
(Ord. 365, passed 2-2-2008) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this Title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state, county,
or city and it shall be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the
provisions of this Title, except as otherwise permitted in this Title.
(Prior Code, § 310.050) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion sounds audible
signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and
when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a red
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of such vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 310.060)
§ 72.08 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws of this
state, or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible
signal only, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right- hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 310.070)
§ 72.09 SIRENS AND FLASHING LIGHTS EMERGENCY USE, PERSONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Motor vehicles and equipment, not otherwise defined in this Title as
an authorized emergency vehicle, which are operated by any member of an
organized Fire Department, ambulance association, or rescue squad, whether paid
or volunteer, may be operated on streets and highways in this city as an
emergency vehicle under the provisions of RSMo. § 304.022, while responding to
a fire call or ambulance call or at the scene of a fire call or ambulance call
and while using or sounding a warning siren and while using or displaying
thereon fixed, flashing, or rotating blue lights, but sirens and blue lights
shall be used only in bona fide emergencies.
   (B)   Permits for the operation of such vehicles equipped with sirens or
blue lights shall be in writing and shall be issued and may be revoked by the
Chief of an organized Fire Department, organized ambulance association, or
rescue squad and no person shall use or display a siren or rotating blue lights
on a motor vehicle, fire, ambulance, or rescue equipment without a valid permit
authorizing the use. Permit to use a siren or lights as heretofore set out does
not relieve the operator of the vehicle so equipped with complying with all
other traffic laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 310.080) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 IMMEDIATE NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or
death of any person or total property damage to an apparent extent of $500 or
more to one person shall immediately, by the quickest means of communication,
give notice of such accident to the Police Department if such accident occurs
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 310.090)
§ 72.11 WRITTEN REPORT OF ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
resulting in bodily injury to or death of any person or total property damage
to an apparent extent of $500 or more to one person shall, within five days
after such accident, forward a written report of such accident to the Police
Department. The provisions of this section shall not be applicable when the
accident has been investigated at the scene by a police officer while such
driver was present thereat.
(Prior Code, § 310.100)
§ 72.12 WHEN DRIVER UNABLE TO REPORT.
   (A)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
immediate notice of an accident as required in §
72.10 and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident
capable of doing so, such occupant shall give, or cause to be given, the notice
not given by the driver.
   (B)   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written report
of an accident as required in §
72.11 and such driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then the owner of the
vehicle involved in such accident shall within five days after the accident
make such report not made by the driver.
(Prior Code, § 310.110)
§ 72.13 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF REPORTS RELATING TO ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   All written reports made by persons involved in accidents or by
garages shall be without prejudice to the individual so reporting and shall be
for the confidential use of the Police Department or other governmental
agencies having use for the records for accident prevention purposes, except
that the Police Department or other governmental agency may disclose the
identity of a person involved in an accident when such identity is not
otherwise known or when such person denies his or her presence at such
accident.
   (B)   No written reports forwarded under the provisions of this section
shall be used as evidence in any trial, civil or criminal, arising out of an
accident except that the Police Department shall furnish upon demand of any
party to such trial, or upon demand of any court, a certificate showing that a
specified accident report has or has not been made to the Department in
compliance with law, and if such report has been made, the date, time, and
location of the accident, the names and addresses of the drivers, the owners of
the vehicles involved, and the investigating officers.
(Prior Code, § 310.120)
§ 72.14 LEAVING THE SCENE OF A MOTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of leaving the scene of a motor vehicle
accident when being the operator or driver of a vehicle on the highways,
streets, or roads of the city or on any publicly or privately owned parking lot
or parking facility, within the city, generally open for use by the public and
knowing that an injury has been caused to a person or damage has been caused to
property, due to his or her culpability or to accident, he or she leaves the
place of the injury, damage, or accident without stopping and giving his or her
name, residence, including city and street number, motor vehicle number, and
driver’s license number, if any, to the injured party or to a police officer,
or if no police officer is in the vicinity, then to the nearest police station
or judicial officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, all peace officers shall have
jurisdiction, when invited by an injured person, to enter the premises of any
such privately owned parking lot or parking facility for the purpose of
investigating an accident and performing all necessary duties regarding such
accident.
(Prior Code, § 310.130)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
72.09 constitutes a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 310.080)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
73.01   Authority to install traffic control devices
   
73.02   Manual and specifications for traffic control devices
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
73.04   When official traffic control devices required for enforcement purposes
   
73.05   Official traffic control devices; presumption of legality
   
73.06   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings
   
73.07   Interference with official traffic control devices or railroad signs or
signals
   
73.08   Authority to establish play streets
   
73.09   Play streets
   
73.10   City Traffic Engineer to designate crosswalks and establish safety
zones
   
73.11   Traffic lanes
§ 73.01 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic control signs,
signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the
city to make effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and
maintain such additional traffic control devices as he or she may deem
necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the city or under
state law or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 315.010)
§ 73.02 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
manual and specifications approved by the State Highways and Transportation
Commission or resolution adopted by the Board of Aldermen of the city.
   (B)   All signs or signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the
city.
   (C)   All traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Title shall be official traffic control devices.
(Prior Code, § 315.020)
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the
provisions of this Title, unless otherwise directed by a traffic or police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle in this Title.
(Prior Code, § 315.030)
§ 73.04 WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES.
   No provision of this Title for which official traffic control devices are
required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place
of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Prior Code, § 315.040)
§ 73.05 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this Title, such devices shall
be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of lawful
authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic control device placed pursuant to the provisions
of this Title and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements pertaining
to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of this
Title, unless the contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
(Prior Code, § 315.050)
§ 73.06 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any highway
an unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be or is an
imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device or any railroad sign or signal.
(Prior Code, § 315.060) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS OR
SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device or
any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or
any other part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 315.070) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall have authority to declare any street or part
thereof a play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway
indicating and helping to protect the same.
(Prior Code, § 315.080)
§ 73.09 PLAY STREETS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 315.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.10 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY
ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his or
her opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and
at such other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 315.100)
§ 73.11 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes
upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic
is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 315.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Regulations
   
74.001   State speed laws applicable
   
74.002   Regulation of speed by traffic signals
   
74.003   General speed limit
   
74.004   Slow speed, regulations
   
74.005   Special speed limits on roadways
Turning Movements
   
74.020   Required position and method of turning at intersection
   
74.021   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
74.022   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
74.023   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
74.024   Limitations on turning around
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
74.035   Following fire apparatus prohibited
   
74.036   Crossing fire hose
   
74.037   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
74.038   Driving in procession
   
74.039   Funeral procession to be identified
   
74.040   When permits required for parades and processions
   
74.041   Vehicle shall not be driven on a sidewalk
   
74.042   Limitations on backing
   
74.043   Opening and closing vehicle doors
   
74.044   Riding on motorcycles; additional passenger, requirements
   
74.045   Riding bicycle on sidewalks, limitations; motorized bicycles
prohibited
   
74.046   All-terrain vehicles; operation; inspection
   
74.047   Riding bicycles, sleds, roller skates, by attaching to another
vehicle, prohibited
   
74.048   Controlled access
   
74.049   Railroad trains not to block streets
   
74.050   Driving through safety zone prohibited
   
74.051   Manner of operation of motor vehicles; careful and prudent
   
74.052   Driving to the right
   
74.053   Passing regulations
   
74.054   Hand and mechanical signals
   
74.055   Stopping for school bus
   
74.056   Right-of-way at intersection; signs at intersection
   
74.057   Distance at which vehicle must follow
   
74.058   Excessive, loud, unusual or explosive use of engine and compressed
air-braking devices prohibited
Alcohol-Related Traffic Offenses
   
74.070   Definitions
   
74.071   Driving while intoxicated
   
74.072   Driving with excessive blood alcohol content
   
74.073   Chemical test for alcohol content; consent implied; administered,
when, how
   
74.074   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in moving motor vehicle, prohibited
when
 
   
74.999   Penalty
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 74.001 STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except that the city may by ordinance declare
and determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigation that
certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in
certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place
giving notice thereof, but no city ordinance shall regulate the speed of
vehicles upon controlled access highways of the state.
(Prior Code, § 320.010) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.002 REGULATION OF SPEED BY TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to regulate the timing of traffic
signals so as to permit the movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner
at speeds slightly at variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within the
district or at intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 320.020)
§ 74.003 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   Except where otherwise provided by signs erected pursuant to duly passed and
approved ordinances, no person shall operate a vehicle on any street in the
city in excess of 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 320.030) (Ord. 264, passed 8-3-1993) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.004 SLOW SPEED, REGULATIONS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law. Peace officers may
enforce the provisions of this section by directions to drivers, and in the
event of apparent willful disobedience to this provision and refusal to comply
with direction of an officer in accordance herewith, the continued slow
operation by a driver is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 320.040) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.005 SPECIAL SPEED LIMITS ON ROADWAYS.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon those portions of the roadways
which are set forth and described in
Schedule I at a rate of speed in excess of that speed limit set for such
portions of the roadways by said Schedule.
(Prior Code, § 320.050) Penalty, see §
74.999
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 74.020 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right-half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
centerline where it enters the intersection and after entering the intersection
the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the
centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn
shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of
the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 325.010)
§ 74.021 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons, or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be traveled as so
indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(Prior Code, § 325.020) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.022 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-
turn, and shall place proper signs at such intersections. The making of such
turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other
hours, in which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they
may be removed when such turns are permitted.
(Prior Code, § 325.030)
§ 74.023 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
(Prior Code, § 325.040) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.024 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 325.050) Penalty, see §
74.999
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 74.035 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 340.010) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.036 CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 340.020) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.037 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this Title. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 340.030) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.038 DRIVING IN PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practicable and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practicable and safe.
(Prior Code, § 340.040)
§ 74.039 FUNERAL PROCESSION TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by such other method as may be determined and
designated by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 340.050)
§ 74.040 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No funeral, procession, or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or
more vehicles except the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the military
forces of this state, and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall
occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth
herein which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 340.060) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.041 VEHICLE SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON A SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area except on a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 340.070) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.042 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 340.080)
§ 74.043 OPENING AND CLOSING VEHICLE DOORS.
   No person shall open the door of a motor vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any
person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(Prior Code, § 340.090) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.044 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES; ADDITIONAL PASSENGER, REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
   (B)   The operator of a motorized bicycle shall ride only astride the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and shall not permit more than one
person to ride thereon at the same time, unless the motorized bicycle is
designed to carry more than one person. Any motorized bicycle designed to carry
more than one person must be equipped with a passenger seat and footrests for
the use of a passenger.
(Prior Code, § 340.100) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.045 RIDING BICYCLE ON SIDEWALKS, LIMITATIONS; MOTORIZED BICYCLES
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall ride a motorized bicycle upon a sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 340.110) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.046 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, OPERATION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Definitions.
      GOLF CART. A motor vehicle that is designed and manufactured for
operation on a golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is
not capable of exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE, UTVs, or ATVs. Any motorized vehicle manufactured
and used exclusively for off-highway use and is between 50 inches and 67 inches
in width, with an unladen dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four
or six wheels.
   (B)   Operation of a utility task vehicle (UTV)(ATV) or golf cart. 
      (1)   No person shall operate a UTV, ATV, or golf cart, as defined in
division (A), upon the streets and highways of this city, except as follows:
         (a)   UTVs and ATVs must be operated by a person with a valid driver's
license;
         (b)   Golf carts may be operated by anyone over the age of 16;
         (c)   UTVs, ATVs and golf carts owned and operated by a governmental
entity for official use;
         (d)   UTVs, ATVs and golf carts will have a valid registration sticker
from city;
         (e)   The UTVs, ATVs and golf carts shall be properly insured and such
proof of insurance shall specifically list the vehicle as referenced by the
serial number and year of model;
         (f)   The vehicle shall be operated at speeds of less than 20 miles
per hour, except within a school zone where the speed limit is 15 miles per
hour; and
         (g)   The UTVs, ATVs shall have a "slow moving" triangle on the back
of the vehicle as required by state law. Golf carts shall have a bicycle safety
flag, which extends not less than seven feet above the ground, attached to the
rear of the vehicle. The bicycle safety flag shall be dayglow in color and
triangular in shape with an area of not less than 30 square inches.
      (2)   No person operating a UTV, ATV, or golf cart on city streets, roads
or alleyways shall:
         (a)   Operate the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts in any careless or
imprudent manner so as to endanger any person or property of any person;
         (b)   Operate the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts while under the influence
of alcohol or any controlled substance;
         (c)   Operate the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts on any park lands in the
City of Otterville, Missouri, except those operated by a governmental unit for
official use;
         (d)   Operate the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts between the hours of
official sunset and sunrise unless the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts are properly
equipped with headlights, taillights, brake lights and turn signals;
         (e)   Operate the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts without a valid city
sticker affixed to the UTV, ATV, or golf cart in a clearly visible location;
         (f)   Carry passengers in excess of the maximum number of designed
seating for the UTVs, ATVs and golf carts;
         (g)   Golf carts cannot drive on any state or federal highway, except
any state highway with a posted speed limit of 20 miles per hour or except to
cross a portion of a state highway system which intersects a municipal street;
or
         (h)   In a manner which disturbs the public peace as detailed in §
130.055 of the City Code.
   (C)   Inspection, permits and registration.
      (1)   The City Police Officer, City Clerk, or the Mayor is hereby
designated as the city official with the authority to issue special permits for
UTVs, ATVs and golf carts. A $30 fee shall be collected upon the issuance of
the permit. A permit shall not be issued until the fee is paid. The fees shall
be deposited into the General Fund of the city and shall be valid for two
years.
      (2)   All permits shall be issued in January regardless of month and year
issued. Permits are due the first business day after the first of each year.
      (3)   No person shall operate UTVs, ATVs or golf carts until it has been
registered with the city. Proof of financial responsibility, covering the UTVs,
ATVs or golf carts to be registered for operation on public roads with no less
the minimum insurance amount set forth by the Missouri Revised Statutes as they
may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this
section shall be sentenced and fined as currently enacted and amended and a six
month suspension of right to use such vehicle.
 
First Violation  Fine: $50
Second Violation Fine: $100
Third Violation  Fine: $200
                 Lose ability to drive within the city on the ATV, UTV, or golf
Fourth Violation cart.
                 Fine: No less than $500
 
(Ord. 442, passed 8-8-2018; Ord. 481, passed 7-2-2025)
§ 74.047 RIDING BICYCLES, SLEDS, ROLLER SKATES, BY ATTACHING TO ANOTHER
VEHICLE, PROHIBITED.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorized bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, sled, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 340.130) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.048 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 340.140) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.049 RAILROAD TRAINS NOT TO BLOCK STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any
railroad train to direct the operation of or to operate the same in such a
manner as to prevent the use of any street for purposes of travel for a period
of time longer than five minutes; provided, that this section shall not apply
to a moving train or to one stopped because of an emergency or for repairs
necessary before it can proceed safely.
(Prior Code, § 340.150) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.050 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 340.160) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.051 MANNER OF OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; CAREFUL AND PRUDENT.
   Every person operating a motor vehicle on the highways of this city shall
drive the vehicle in a careful and prudent manner and at a rate of speed so as
not to endanger the property of another or the life or limb of any person and
shall exercise the highest degree of care.
(Prior Code, § 340.170) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.052 DRIVING TO THE RIGHT.
   (A)   Upon all public roads or highways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall
be driven upon the right-half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction pursuant to the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When placing a vehicle in position for and when such vehicle is
lawfully making a left turn in compliance with the provisions of this Title;
      (3)   When the right-half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated by local ordinance as a one-way street
and marked or signed for one-way traffic.
   (B)   It is unlawful to drive any vehicle upon any highway or road which has
been divided into two or more roadways by means of a physical barrier or by
means of a dividing section or delineated by curbs, lines, or other markings on
the roadway, except to the right of such barrier or dividing section, or to
make any left turn or semi-circular or U-turn on any such divided highway,
except in a cross-over or intersection.
   (C)   All vehicles in motion upon a highway having two or more lanes of
traffic proceeding in the same direction shall be driven in the right-hand lane
except when overtaking and passing another vehicle or when preparing to make a
proper left turn or when otherwise directed by traffic markings, signs, or
signals.
(Prior Code, § 340.180) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.053 PASSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of
vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to the limitations and
exceptions hereinafter stated:
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle; and
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle and shall not increase the speed of such driver’s vehicle
until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle may overtake and pass to the right
of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a city street with unobstructed pavement of sufficient
width for two or more lines of vehicles in each direction; or
         (c)   Upon a one-way street.
      (2)   The driver of a motor vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
upon the right only under the foregoing conditions when such movement may be
made in safety. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
paved or main traveled portion of the roadway. The provisions of this division
(B)(2) shall not relieve the driver of a slow-moving vehicle from the duty to
drive as closely as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Except when a roadway has been divided into three traffic lanes, no
vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the centerline of a highway or
public road in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
   (D)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve of the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within such distance as to create
a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction; or
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, tunnel, or when approaching within 100 feet of or at any
intersection or railroad grade crossing.
(Prior Code, § 340.190) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.054 HAND AND MECHANICAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of or turn a vehicle
from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only after the giving of
an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein.
   (A)   An operator or driver when stopping, or when checking the speed of the
operator’s vehicle, if the movement of other vehicles may reasonably be
affected by such checking of speed, shall extend such operator’s arm at an
angle below horizontal so that the same may be seen in the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   An operator or driver intending to turn the vehicle to the right shall
extend such operator’s arm at an angle above horizontal so that the same may be
seen in front of and in the rear of the vehicle, and shall slow down and
approach the intersecting highway as near as practicable to the right side of
the highway along which such operator is proceeding before turning.
   (C)   An operator or driver intending to turn the vehicle to the left shall
extend such operator’s arm in a horizontal position so that the same may be
seen in the rear of the vehicle, and shall slow down and approach the
intersecting highway so that the left side of the vehicle shall be as near as
practicable to the centerline of the highway along which the operator is
proceeding before turning.
   (D)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal light or signal device in good mechanical condition of a
type approved by the State Highway Patrol; however, when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then such signals shall be given by such
light or device.
(Prior Code, § 340.200)
§ 74.055 STOPPING FOR SCHOOL BUS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway upon meeting or overtaking from
either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children and whose driver has in
the manner prescribed by law given the signal to stop, shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus and shall not proceed until such school bus
resumes motion, or until signaled by its driver to proceed.
   (B)   Every bus used for the transportation of school children shall bear
upon the front and rear thereon a plainly visible sign containing the words
“School Bus” in letters not less than eight inches in height. Each bus shall
have lettered on the rear in plain and distinct type the following: “State Law:
Stop While Bus is Loading and Unloading”. Each school bus subject to the
provisions of RSMo. §§ 304.050 to 304.070 shall be equipped with a mechanical
and electrical signaling device approved by the state’s Board of Education,
which will display a signal plainly visible from the front and rear and
indicating intention to stop.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the driver of a school
bus in the process of loading or unloading students upon a street or highway
shall activate the mechanical and electrical signaling devices, in the manner
prescribed by the state’s Board of Education, to communicate to drivers of
other vehicles that students are loading or unloading. A public school district
shall have the authority, pursuant to this section, to adopt a policy which
provides that the driver of a school bus in the process of loading or unloading
students upon a divided highway of four or more lanes may pull off of the main
roadway and load or unload students without activating the mechanical and
electrical signaling devices in a manner which gives the signal for other
drivers to stop and may use the amber signaling devices to alert motorists that
the school bus is slowing to a stop; provided, that the passengers are not
required to cross any traffic lanes and also provided that the emergency
flashing signal lights are activated in a manner which indicates that drivers
should proceed with caution, and in such case, the driver of a vehicle may
proceed past the school bus with due caution. No driver of a school bus shall
take on or discharge passengers at any location upon a highway consisting of
four or more lanes of traffic, whether or not divided by a median or barrier,
in such manner as to require the passengers to cross more than two lanes of
traffic; nor shall any passengers be taken on or discharged while the vehicle
is upon the road or highway proper unless the vehicle so stopped is plainly
visible for at least 500 feet in each direction to drivers of other vehicles in
the case of a highway with no shoulder and a speed limit greater than 60 mph
and at least 300 feet in each direction to drivers of other vehicles upon other
highways, and on all highways, only for such time as is actually necessary to
take on and discharge passengers.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with separate roadways need not
stop upon meeting or overtaking a school bus which is on a different roadway,
which is proceeding in the opposite direction on a highway containing four or
more lanes of traffic, or which is stopped in a loading zone constituting a
part of, or adjacent to, a limited or controlled access highway at a point
where pedestrians are not permitted to cross the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 340.210)
§ 74.056 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTION; SIGNS AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the intersection from a different
highway; provided however, there is no form of traffic control at such
intersection.
   (B)   When two vehicles enter an intersection from different highways at
approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left shall yield
the right-of-way to the driver of the vehicle on the right. This division (B)
shall not apply to vehicles approaching each other from opposite directions
when the driver of one of such vehicles is attempting to or is making a left
turn.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to
the left shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle intending to make a left turn into an alley,
private road, or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction when the making of such left turn would
create a traffic hazard.
   (E)   The city may, on any section of road where construction or major
maintenance operations are being effected, fix a speed limit in such areas by
posting of appropriate signs, and the operation of a motor vehicle in excess of
such speed limit in the area so posted shall be deemed prima facie evidence of
careless and imprudent driving and a violation of §
74.052.
(Prior Code, § 340.220)
§ 74.057 DISTANCE AT WHICH VEHICLE MUST FOLLOW.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonably safe and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the roadway.
   (B)   Vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade, whether or not towing other
vehicles, shall be so operated, except in a funeral procession or in a duly
authorized parade, so as to allow sufficient space between each such vehicle or
combination of vehicles as to enable any other vehicle to overtake or pass such
vehicles in safety.
   (C)   This section shall in no manner affect RSMo. § 304.044, relating to
distance between trucks traveling on the highway.
(Prior Code, § 340.230) Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.058 EXCESSIVE, LOUD, UNUSUAL OR EXPLOSIVE USE OF ENGINE AND COMPRESSED
AIR-BRAKING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A “Dynamic Brake,” “Jake Brake,” “Jacob’s Brake,”
“C-Brake,” “Paccar Brake.” Transmission brake, or any other ENGINE RETARDING
BRAKE system that alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases the compressions.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Engine compression braking devices on any commercial
vehicle, as defined in RSMo § 301.010, may only be used within the city limits
of Otterville if the truck is equipped with an adequate muffler (factory
muffler or equivalent aftermarket muffler) which is properly maintained to
prevent any excessive or unusual noise. If the truck’s exhaust system is
equipped with a muffler cut-off, bypass, or similar device, that device shall
not be activated when the engine brake is being utilized. Unmuffled engine
braking system shall only be utilized within the city limits by commercial
motor vehicles in emergency situations to protect life or property. Engine
braking systems on rescue vehicles, city and state vehicles are exempt from
this section if used in the performance of official duties.
   (C)   Areas of prohibition. The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to
all of the public roads and highways in the City of Otterville.
   (D)   Signage. Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “ENGINE BRAKE
ORDINANCE ENFORCED” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the
Board of Alderman to advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this
section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “ENGINE
BRAKE ORDINANCE ENFORCED” shall be installed on state highways without a permit
from the Missouri Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
shall be in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   (E)   Exceptions. Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of
this section.
   (F)   Enforcement. Any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section shall be fined up to $500 and/or up to 90 days in jail for each such
violation.
(Ord. 479, passed 9-4-2024)
ALCOHOL-RELATED TRAFFIC OFFENSES
§ 74.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVE, DRIVING, OPERATES, or OPERATING. Physically driving or operating a
motor vehicle.
   INTOXICATED CONDITION. A person is in an INTOXICATED CONDITION when he or
she is under the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance, or drug, or any
combination thereof.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or ARRESTING OFFICER. Includes the definition of law
enforcement officer in RSMo. § 556.061(32), and military police officers
conducting traffic enforcement operations on a federal military installation
under military jurisdiction in the state.
(Prior Code, § 342.010)
§ 74.071 DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while in an intoxicated condition.
Penalty, see §
74.999
§ 74.072 DRIVING WITH EXCESSIVE BLOOD ALCOHOL CONTENT.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle when the person has 0.08% or more by
weight of alcohol in his or her blood. As used in this section, percent by
weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of alcohol per 100
milliliters of blood and may be shown by chemical analysis of the person’s
blood, breath, saliva or urine. For the purposes of determining the alcoholic
contents of a person’s blood under this section, the test shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of RSMo §§ 577.020 to 577.041.
Penalty, see §
74.999 
§ 74.073 CHEMICAL TEST FOR ALCOHOL CONTENT; CONSENT IMPLIED; ADMINISTERED,
WHEN, HOW.
   (A)   Any person who operates a motor vehicle upon the public highways of
this city shall be deemed to have given consent to, subject to the provisions
of RSMo. §§ 577.020 to 577.041, a chemical test or tests of the person’s
breath, blood, saliva, or urine for the purpose of determining the alcohol or
drug content of the person’s blood if arrested for any offense arising out of
acts which the arresting officer had reasonable grounds to believe were
committed while the person was driving a motor vehicle while in an intoxicated
or drugged condition. The test shall be administered at the direction of the
arresting law enforcement officer whenever the person has been arrested for the
offense.
   (B)   The implied consent to submit to the chemical tests listed in division
(A) above shall be limited to not more than two such tests arising from the
same arrest, incident, or charge.
   (C)   Chemical analysis of the person’s breath, blood, saliva, or urine to
be considered valid pursuant to the provisions of RSMo. §§ 577.020 to 577.041,
shall be performed according to methods approved by the state’s Department of
Health by licensed medical personnel or by a person possessing a valid permit
issued by the state’s Department of Health for this purpose.
   (D)   The person tested may have a physician, or a qualified technician,
chemist, registered nurse, or other qualified person at the choosing and
expense of the person to be tested, administer a test in addition to any
administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The failure or
inability to obtain an additional test by a person shall not preclude the
admission of evidence relating to the test taken at the direction of a law
enforcement officer.
   (E)   Upon the request of the person who is tested, full information
concerning the test shall be made available to him or her.
(Prior Code, § 342.040)
§ 74.074 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOVING MOTOR VEHICLE, PROHIBITED
WHEN.
   (A)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage while operating a
moving motor vehicle upon the highways, as defined in RSMo. § 301.010.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section is
guilty of an infraction.
   (C)   Any infraction under this section shall not reflect on any records
with the Department of Revenue.
(Prior Code, § 342.050)
§ 74.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of §
74.046 shall be sentenced and fined in accordance with RSMo. §§ 479.353 through
479.530 as currently enacted and amended, and a six month suspension of right
to use such vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
74.072 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   For the first offense, by a fine of not less than $50 and not
more than $500, or by imprisonment in jail for not more than 90 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment;
         (b)   For the second offense within a three-year period, by a fine of
not less than $100 and not more than $500, and by imprisonment for a term of
not less than five days and not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent offenses within a three-year
period, by a fine of not less than $250.00 and not more than $500.00, and by
imprisonment in jail for a term of not less than 15 days and not more than 90
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   Evidence of prior convictions shall be heard and determined by the
trial court, out of the hearing of the jury prior to the submission of the case
to the jury, and the court shall enter its findings thereon.
      (3)   Any person convicted of an intoxication-related offense shall have
a judgment entered against that person in favor of the spinal cord injury fund
in the amount of $25.
         (a)   Judgments collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into
the State Treasury to the credit of the spinal cord injury fund created in
RSMo. § 304.027. Any court clerk receiving funds pursuant to judgments entered
pursuant to this section shall collect and disburse such amounts as provided in
RSMo. §§ 488.010 to 488.020.
         (b)   As used in this section, an “intoxication-related traffic
offense” is driving while intoxicated, driving with excessive blood alcohol
content, driving under the influence of drugs, or assault while intoxicated.
(Ord. 442, passed 8-8-2018)
CHAPTER 75: STREETS AND INTERSECTIONS
Section
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
75.01   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
75.02   One-way streets and alleys
   
75.03   Authority to restrict direction of movement on streets during certain
periods
Stop and Yield Intersections, Railroad Crossings
   
75.15   Through streets designated
   
75.16   Signs required at through streets
   
75.17   Other intersections where stop or yield required
   
75.18   Stop and yield signs
   
75.19   Vehicle entering stop intersection
   
75.20   Vehicle entering yield intersection
   
75.21   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
75.22   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
75.23   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
Truck Routes
   
75.35   Definitions
   
75.36   Authorized truck routes
   
75.37   Prohibition against travel on other than truck routes
   
75.38   Exemptions
   
75.39   Single pick-ups, deliveries, and service calls
   
75.40   Leaving or returning to home or place of business
   
75.41   Permits
   
75.42   Signs
 
   
75.99   Penalty
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 75.01 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance of the city designates any one-way street or alley,
the City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof,
and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 330.010)
§ 75.02 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described and
designated by ordinance, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 330.020)
§ 75.03 AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT ON STREETS DURING CERTAIN
PERIODS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate streets, parts of streets, or specific lanes thereon upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period and the
opposite direction during another period of the day, and shall place and
maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers, or other devices to give notice
thereof. The City Traffic Engineer may erect signs temporarily designating
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the
centerline of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle in
violation of such markings, signs, barriers, or other devices so placed in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 330.030) Penalty, see §
75.99
STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS, RAILROAD CROSSINGS
§ 75.15 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described by ordinances of the city are
declared to be through streets for the purposes of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 335.010)
§ 75.16 SIGNS REQUIRED AT THROUGH STREETS.
   Whenever any ordinance of the city designates and describes a through
street, it shall be the duty of the City Traffic Engineer to place and maintain
a stop sign, or on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation at any
intersection a yield sign, on each and every street intersecting such through
street unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals; provided however, that at the intersection of two such
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of said streets as may be determined by the City Traffic Engineer upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
(Prior Code, § 335.020)
§ 75.17 OTHER INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP OR YIELD REQUIRED.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate
intersections where particular hazard exists upon other than through streets
and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any
such intersection in which event he or she shall cause to be erected a stop
sign at every such place where a stop is required, or whether vehicles shall
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on a different street at such intersection
as prescribed in §
75.18(A), in which event he or she shall cause to be erected a yield sign at
every place where obedience thereto is required.
(Prior Code, § 335.030)
§ 75.18 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign if required for
safety to stop shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the
driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 335.040)
§ 75.19 VEHICLE ENTERING STOP INTERSECTION.
   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by §
75.18(B), and after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle
which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is approaching
so closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
when such driver is moving across or within the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 335.050)
§ 75.20 VEHICLE ENTERING YIELD INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to such
sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
such driver is moving across or within the intersection; provided however, that
if such a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the intersection,
after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision shall be
deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield the right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 335.060)
§ 75.21 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Prior Code, § 335.070)
§ 75.22 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 335.080) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.23 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train; or
      (3)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed.
(Prior Code, § 335.090) Penalty, see §
75.99
TRUCK ROUTES
§ 75.35 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction. Any word or term not defined herein shall be
considered to be defined in accordance with its common or standard definition.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY. Every vehicle that is designed for agriculture
purpose and exclusively used by the owner thereof in the conduct of agriculture
operations.
      PERSON. Includes an agency, company, organization, firm, association,
partnership, joint venture, corporation, trust or equivalent entity, or a
combination of any of them as well as a natural person.
      ROAD. Any street, highway, or route within the city limits of Otterville,
Missouri, which is maintained by the city.
      SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load rest upon or is
carried by some other vehicle.
      TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so
constructed that no part of its weight rest upon the towing vehicle.
      TRUCK. Every vehicle that is designed, used, or maintained primarily for
the transportation of property, except a pick-up truck or a van designed to
carry loads no more than one ton, and except any trailer or semi-trailer
lawfully towed by such pickup truck or van designed to carry loads of no more
than one ton.
      TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.36 AUTHORIZED TRUCK ROUTES.
   The following roads within the city limits are hereby designated truck
routes and classified for truck traffic:
   (A)   The entire length of Old US Highway 50 or otherwise known as State
Highway A; and
   (B)   The entire length of State Road BB known as Boonville Street.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.37 PROHIBITION AGAINST TRAVEL ON OTHER THAN TRUCK ROUTES.
   Except as expressly permitted under this subchapter no person shall operate
a truck or truck-tractor and semi-trailer or truck-tractor and trailer
combination, or truck and trailer combination in the city limits on any road
other than a designated truck route.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.38 EXEMPTIONS.
   The truck route limitations prescribed in this subchapter shall not apply
to:
   (A)   Fire trucks or other emergency vehicles or vehicle on emergency
business involved in the saving of life or property;
   (B)   Implements of husbandry incidentally moved upon a road; or
   (C)   City vehicles and garbage service vehicles while involved in the
provision of services to residents of the city limits.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.39 SINGLE PICK-UPS, DELIVERIES, AND SERVICE CALLS.
   A vehicle that would otherwise be restricted to truck routes and which is
being used to make single pick-ups, deliveries, or service calls in the city on
roads other than designated truck routes shall restrict its travel to a minimum
and shall not be driven or moved on other than truck routes except when being
used to make single pick-ups, deliveries, or service calls within the city
limits. Said vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to leave a permitted
truck route and proceed to its destination or destinations in the city by the
most direct route. Upon completion of the pick-ups, deliveries, or service
calls, the vehicle shall return to the nearest permitted truck route or leave
the city by the most direct route. This section shall not be interpreted as
permitting a vehicle otherwise restricted to a truck route from entering or
leaving the city by other than a truck route.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.40 LEAVING OR RETURNING TO HOME OR PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent a truck or truck-tractor and semi-
trailer, or truck tractor and trailer combination, or truck and trailer
combination from leaving or returning to its city, ordinance approved customary
storage location at the owner or operator’s personal residence, or a commercial
or industrial location in the city limits, provided the most direct route to
and from a designated truck route is utilized. This section does not override
any standing ordinances within the city limits.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.41 PERMITS.
   (A)   In all cases regulated by, and not specifically exempted by §
75.38, or defined by §
75.39, the applicant shall submit a planned truck route to the Codes
Enforcement Department, which shall confer with the Mayor and Board of Alderman
and approve or modify the planned route. All operations requiring a permit
issued by the city, Code Enforcement, or Community Development Departments
shall submit a planned route at the time of application for permit if the
operation will result in activities regulated by this subchapter.
   (B)   In consultation with the Mayor and Board of Alderman, the Street
Department Supervisor and the Chief of Police may develop a schedule of
priority for streets to be avoided and streets to be utilized when possible for
operations regulated by this subchapter in lieu of such consultation required
in division (A) above.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.42 SIGNS.
   The city shall procure and have posted appropriate signs on the entrance of
the roads that state “No Thru Truck Traffic”.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
75.35 to
75.42 shall be guilty of a civil infraction and, upon conviction, shall be
fined no more than $300 plus court fees.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-10-2020)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING, STOPPING, AND LOADING
Section
Method of Parking
   
76.001   Standing or parking close to curb
   
76.002   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
76.003   Obedience to angle parking signs or markers
   
76.004   Permits for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb
   
76.005   Lamps on parked vehicles
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
76.020   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited
   
76.021   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
76.022   Parking in alleys
   
76.023   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
76.024   Maximum parking time
   
76.025   Parking adjacent to schools
   
76.026   Parking prohibited on narrow streets
   
76.027   Standing or parking on one-way streets
   
76.028   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
76.029   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
76.030   Physically disabled parking
   
76.031   Payment in lieu of fine
Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
   
76.045   City Traffic Engineer to designate curb loading zones
   
76.046   Permits for curb loading zones
   
76.047   Standing in passenger curb loading zone
   
76.048   Standing in freight curb loading zones
   
76.049   City Traffic Engineer to designate public carrier stops and stands
   
76.050   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxicabs regulated
   
76.051   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Stopping, Standing, or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
76.065   Application of chapter
   
76.066   Regulations not exclusive
   
76.067   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
76.068   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets
   
76.069   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited during certain hours on
certain streets
   
76.070   Parking signs required
   
76.071   Commercial vehicles prohibited from using certain streets
 
   
76.999   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 76.001 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
(Prior Code, § 350.010)
§ 76.002 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine upon what streets angle
parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle
parking shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within the
city unless the State Highways and Transportation Commission has determined by
resolution or order entered in its minutes that the roadway is of sufficient
width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic.
   (B)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
(Prior Code, § 350.020)
§ 76.003 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKERS.
   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the City Traffic
Engineer for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than
at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or
markings.
(Prior Code, § 350.030) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.004 PERMITS FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT AN ANGLE TO THE CURB.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to issue special permits to
permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate any
of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 350.040) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.005 LAMPS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked upon a street or highway during
the hours between a half hour after sunset and a half hour before sunrise and
in the event there is sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a
distance of 500 feet upon such street or highway, no lights need be displayed
upon such parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked or stopped upon a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto, whether attended or unattended, during the hours between a
half hour after sunset and a half hour before sunrise and there is not
sufficient light to reveal any person or object within a distance of 500 feet
upon such highway, such vehicle so parked or stopped shall be equipped with one
or more lamps meeting the following requirements: at least one lamp shall
display a white or amber light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front
of the vehicle, and the same lamp or at least one other lamp shall display a
red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of the vehicle, and
the location of said lamp or lamps shall always be such that at least one lamp
or combination of lamps meeting the requirements of this section is installed
as near as practicable to the side of the vehicle which is closer to passing
traffic. The foregoing provisions shall not apply to a motor-driven cycle.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 350.050)
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 76.020 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks; or
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of said entrance (when properly signposted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is
unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 355.010) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.021 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 355.020) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.022 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 355.030) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.023 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Repair such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 355.040) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.024 MAXIMUM PARKING TIME.
   No vehicle, motor vehicle, motorized bicycle, or commercial vehicle shall be
stopped or parked on any street for more than 72 consecutive hours.
(Prior Code, § 355.045) (Ord. 331, passed 4-3-2004)
§ 76.025 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property
when such parking would, in his or her opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation. When official signs are erected indicating no
parking upon either side of a street adjacent to any school property as
authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 355.050) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.026 PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not exceed 20 feet,
or upon one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the
roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, no person shall park a vehicle upon any such
street in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 355.060) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.027 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand
side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and
when such signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon such
left-hand side in violation of any such sign.
(Prior Code, § 355.070) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.028 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking. The City Traffic Engineer is
authorized to determine when standing or parking may be permitted upon the
left-hand side of any such one-way roadway and to erect signs giving notice
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 355.080)
§ 76.029 NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the
stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(Prior Code, § 355.090) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.030 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any vehicle in
any stall or space designated or reserved for physically disabled persons, as
defined in RSMo. § 301.142, as amended, whether upon public or private property
open to public use, unless the vehicle bears the State of Missouri license
plate or placard for the disabled as provided for in RSMo. §§ 301.071 or
301.142, as amended. The space shall be indicated by an upright sign, whether
on a pole or attached to a building, upon which shall be inscribed the
international symbol of accessibility in white on a blue background, and may
also include any appropriate wording to indicate that the space is reserved for
the exclusive use of vehicles which display a distinguishing license plate or
card.
   (B)   Any vehicle operator who is not physically disabled shall not use the
handicapped parking space unless there is a physically disabled person in the
vehicle, or while the vehicle is being used to transport a physically disabled
person.
(Prior Code, § 355.100) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.031 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF FINE.
   (A)   Liability for the following designated offenses occurring within the
city may be discharged by payment to the city in lieu of a fine, the designated
amount listed below.
 First Offense Second and Subsequent Offenses
                                   First Offense Second and Subsequent Offenses
Double parking                     $5            $10
Driving on sidewalk                $5            $10
Improper parking by not parking in
roadway with right-hand wheels     $5            $10
parallel within 18 inches of
right-hand curb
Parking at wrong angle             $5            $10
Parking in excess of maximum       $5            $10
parking time
Parking in prohibited place        $5            $10
Parking on sidewalk                $5            $10
Parking on wrong side of street    $5            $10
Parking too close to fireplug      $5            $10
Payment of the above amount shall be made within 48 hours after receipt of the
notice of violation.
 
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) above and who does
not tender payment within the allotted time, may still discharge their
liability by payment to the city of $10 for each violation if said payment is
paid within ten days after notice of the violation. If payment is not made
after ten days, a complaint may be filed against the offender in the Municipal
Division of the Circuit Court, and the violator shall be subject to penalties
therein prescribed for such violation.
(Prior Code, § 355.110) (Ord. 298, passed 2-1-2000; Ord. 332, passed 4-3-2004)
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
§ 76.045 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this section are applicable.
(Prior Code, § 360.010)
§ 76.046 PERMITS FOR CURB LOADING ZONES.
   The City Traffic Engineer shall not designate or sign any curb loading zone
upon special request of any person unless such person makes application for a
permit for such zone and for two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone.
The City Traffic Engineer, upon granting a permit and issuing such signs, shall
collect from the applicant and deposit in the City Treasury a service fee of
$10 per year or fraction thereof, and may by general regulations impose
conditions upon the use of such signs and for reimbursement of the city for the
value thereof in the event of their loss or damage and their return in the
event of misuse or upon expiration of permit. Every such permit shall expire at
the end of one year.
(Prior Code, § 360.020)
§ 76.047 STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed three minutes.
(Prior Code, § 360.030) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.048 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect.
(Prior Code, § 360.040) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.049 CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER TO DESIGNATE PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized and required to establish bus
stops, bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common
carrier motor vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number
as he or she shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to
the public, and every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand, or other stand
shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 360.050)
§ 76.050 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stand so designated as provided herein.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided herein, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 360.060) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.051 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
such zone.
(Prior Code, § 360.070) Penalty, see §
76.999
STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED
ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 76.065 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this Title prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 365.010)
§ 76.066 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this Title imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 365.020)
§ 76.067 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.030)
§ 76.068 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle between the hours specified by ordinance of any day except
Sunday and public holidays within the districts or upon any of the streets
described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.040)
§ 76.069 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON
CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle between the hours specified by ordinance of any
day except Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon any of the
streets described by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 365.050) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.070 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this Title or any ordinance of the city any parking time limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be the duty
of the City Traffic Engineer to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof
and no such regulations shall be effective unless said signs are erected and in
place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 365.060)
§ 76.071 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS.
   In cases where an equally direct and convenient alternate route is provided,
an ordinance may describe and signs may be erected giving notice thereof, that
no persons shall operate any commercial vehicle upon streets or parts of
streets so described except those commercial vehicles making deliveries
thereon.
(Prior Code, § 365.070)
§ 76.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
76.030 is guilty of an offense and shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $300. Every day upon which such violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 355.100)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
General Provisions
   
77.01   Violations of traffic ordinances and laws
   
77.02   When person charged may elect to appear at Bureau
   
77.03   Duties of Traffic Violations Bureau
   
77.04   Traffic Violations Bureau to keep records
   
77.05   Additional duties of Traffic Violations Bureau
Procedure on Arrest
   
77.20   Forms and records of traffic citations and arrests
   
77.21   Procedure of police officers
   
77.22   Uniform traffic tickets to be issued when vehicle illegally parked or
stopped
   
77.23   Warning of arrest sent upon failure to appear
   
77.24   Police may remove vehicle
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 77.01 VIOLATIONS OF TRAFFIC ORDINANCES AND LAWS.
   (A)   The judge of the court in which violations of the municipal ordinances
are heard may establish a Traffic Violations Bureau to assist the court with
the clerical work of traffic cases.
   (B)   The Judge of the County Circuit Court, Municipal Division who hears
traffic cases shall designate the specified offenses under this law or under
the traffic ordinances of the city and the state traffic laws in accordance
with Supreme Court Rule No. 37.49 in respect to which payments of fines may be
accepted by the Traffic Violations Bureau in satisfaction thereof, and shall
specify suitable schedules the amount of such fines for first, second, and
subsequent offenses, provided such fines are within the limits declared by law
or ordinance, and shall further specify what number of such offenses shall
require appearance before the court.
(Prior Code, § 370.005) (Ord. 264, passed 8-3-1993)
§ 77.02 WHEN PERSON CHARGED MAY ELECT TO APPEAR AT BUREAU.
   (A)   Any person charged with an offense for which payment of a fine may be
made to the Traffic Violations Bureau shall have the option of paying such fine
within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the Traffic Violations
Bureau upon entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in court; or
may have the option of depositing required lawful bail, and upon a plea of not
guilty shall be entitled to a trial as authorized by law.
   (B)   The payment of a fine to the Bureau shall be deemed an acknowledgment
of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Bureau, upon accepting the
prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator acknowledging payment
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 370.010)
§ 77.03 DUTIES OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The following duties are hereby imposed upon the Traffic Violations Bureau
in reference to traffic offenses:
   (A)   It shall accept designated fines, issue receipts, and represent in
court such violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty, waive court
appearance, and give power of attorney; and
   (B)   It shall receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the persons who
must or wish to be heard in court, enter the time of their appearance on the
court docket, and notify the arresting officer and witnesses, if any, to be
present.
(Prior Code, § 370.020)
§ 77.04 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall keep records and submit to the judges
hearing violations of city ordinances summarized monthly reports of all notices
issued and arrests made for violations of the traffic laws and ordinances in
the city and of all the fines collected by the Traffic Violations Bureau or the
court, and of the final disposition or present status of every case of
violation of the provisions of said laws and ordinances. Such records shall be
so maintained as to show all types of violations and the totals of each. Said
records shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 370.030)
§ 77.05 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Traffic Violations Bureau shall follow such procedure as may be
prescribed by the traffic ordinances of the city or as may be required by any
laws of this state.
(Prior Code, § 370.040)
PROCEDURE ON ARREST
§ 77.20 FORMS AND RECORDS OF TRAFFIC CITATIONS AND ARRESTS.
   (A)   The city shall provide books containing uniform traffic tickets as
prescribed by Supreme Court Rule. Said books shall include serially numbered
sets of citations in quadruplicate in the form prescribed by Supreme Court
Rule.
   (B)   Such books shall be issued to the Chief of Police or his or her duly
authorized agent, a record shall be maintained of every book so issued and a
written receipt shall be required for every book. The judge or judges hearing
city ordinance violation cases may require that a copy of such record and
receipts be filed with the court.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the issuance of such
books to individual members of the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall
require a written receipt for every book so issued and shall maintain a record
of every such book and each set of citations contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 375.010)
§ 77.21 PROCEDURE OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   Except when authorized or directed under state law to immediately take a
person before the Municipal Judge for the violation of any traffic laws, a
police officer who halts a person for such violation other than for the purpose
of giving him or her a warning or warning notice and does not take such person
into custody under arrest, shall issue to him or her a uniform traffic ticket
which shall be proceeded upon in accordance with Supreme Court Rule Number 37.
(Prior Code, § 375.020)
§ 77.22 UNIFORM TRAFFIC TICKETS TO BE ISSUED WHEN VEHICLE ILLEGALLY PARKED OR
STOPPED.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by ordinance of the city or by
state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number
and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify
its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a uniform traffic
ticket for the driver to answer to the charge against him or her within five
days during the hours and at a place specified in the uniform traffic ticket.
(Prior Code, § 375.030)
§ 77.23 WARNING OF ARREST SENT UPON FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a uniform traffic
ticket affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of five days, the Traffic
Violations Bureau shall send to the owner of the motor vehicle to which the
uniform traffic ticket was affixed a letter informing him or her of the
violation and warning him or her that in the event such letter is disregarded
for a period of five days, a warrant of arrest will be issued.
(Prior Code, § 375.040)
§ 77.24 POLICE MAY REMOVE VEHICLE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to
a garage designated or maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise
maintained by the city under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
causeway, or in any tube or tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an
obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is by reason of
physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide its
custody or removal; or
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof,
such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to
such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the
place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such vehicle is
stored in a public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the
proprietor of such garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street under this section
and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for
any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as hereinbefore
provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a
period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall immediately send
or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by mail to the state
department whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy
of such notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the vehicle
may be stored. Such notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle,
the date, time, and place from which removed, the reasons for such removal, and
the name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
(Prior Code, § 375.050)
CHAPTER 78: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
Section
Light Regulations
   
78.01   When lights required
   
78.02   Headlamp on motor vehicles
   
78.03   Multiple-beam headlamps; arrangement
   
78.04   Dimming of lights
   
78.05   Taillamps, reflectors
   
78.06   Auxiliary lamps; number; location
   
78.07   Cowl, fender, running board, and backup lamps
   
78.08   Spotlamps
   
78.09   Colors of various lamps; restriction of red lights
   
78.10   Limitations on lamps other than headlamps; flashing signals prohibited
except on specified vehicles
   
78.11   Limitation on total of lamps lighted at one time
   
78.12   Other vehicles; how lighted
   
78.13   Animal-driven vehicles, lighting requirements
Other Vehicle Equipment
   
78.25   Other equipment of motor vehicles
   
78.26   Loads which might become dislodged to be secured; failure
   
78.27   Seat belts
   
78.28   Child restraint system
   
78.29   Vision-reducing material applied to windshield or windows prohibited;
rules, procedure
   
78.30   Studded tires, prohibited when
   
78.31   Restriction on use of metal-tired vehicles
   
78.32   Passengers in trucks
Cross-reference:
   Parking, stopping, and loading, see
Ch. 76
   Vehicle regulations, see
Ch. 74
LIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 78.01 WHEN LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED means at any time from a half hour
after sunset to a half hour before sunrise and at any other time when there is
not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and vehicles on the
highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead.
   (B)   No person shall drive, move, park, or be in custody of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any street or highway during the times when lighted
lamps are required unless such vehicle or combination of vehicles displays
lighted lamps and illuminating devices as hereinafter in this subchapter
required. No person shall use on any vehicle any approved electric lamp or
similar device unless the light source of such lamp or device complies with the
conditions of approval as to focus and rated candlepower.
(Prior Code, § 380.010)
§ 78.02 HEADLAMP ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Except as in this subchapter provided, every motor vehicle other than a
motor-drawn vehicle and other than a motorcycle shall be equipped with at least
two approved headlamps mounted at the same level with at least one on each side
of the front of the vehicle. Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least
one and not more than two approved headlamps. Every motorcycle equipped with a
sidecar or other attachment shall be equipped with a lamp on the outside limit
of such attachment capable of displaying a white light to the front.
(Prior Code, § 380.020)
§ 78.03 MULTIPLE-BEAM HEADLAMPS; ARRANGEMENT.
   Except as hereinafter provided, the headlamps or the auxiliary driving lamp
or the auxiliary passing lamp or combination thereof on motor vehicles, other
than motorcycles or motor-driven cycles, shall be so arranged that the driver
may select at will between distributions of light projected to different
elevations and such lamps may, in addition, be so arranged that such selection
can be made automatically, subject to the following limitations:
   (A)   There shall be an uppermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of such intensity as to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance
of at least 350 feet ahead for all conditions of loading; and
   (B)   There shall be a lowermost distribution of light, or composite beam,
so aimed and of sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a
distance of at least 100 feet ahead; and on a straight level road under any
condition of loading, none of the high-intensity portion of the beam shall be
directed to strike the eyes of an approaching driver.
(Prior Code, § 380.030)
§ 78.04 DIMMING OF LIGHTS.
   (A)   Every person driving a motor vehicle equipped with multiple-beam road
lighting equipment, during the times when lighted lamps are required, shall use
a distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a safe distance in
advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements and limitations.
   (B)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle within
500 feet, or is within 300 feet to the rear of another vehicle traveling in the
same direction, the driver shall use a distribution of light or composite beam
so aimed that the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the other
driver, and in no case shall the high-intensity portion which is projected to
the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side of the vehicle be aimed
higher than the center of the lamp from which it comes at a distance of 25 feet
ahead, and in no case higher than a level of 42 inches above the level upon
which the vehicle stands at a distance of 75 feet ahead.
(Prior Code, § 380.040)
§ 78.05 TAILLAMPS, REFLECTORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and every motor-drawn vehicle shall be equipped
with at least two rear lamps, not less than 15 inches or more than 72 inches
above the ground upon which the vehicle stands, which when lighted will exhibit
a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. Either
such rear lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed and placed as to
illuminate with a white light the rear registration marker and render it
clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear. When the rear
registration marker is illuminated by an electric lamp other than the required
rear lamps, all such lamps shall be turned on or off only by the same control
switch at all times.
   (B)   Every motorcycle registered in this state, when operated on a highway,
shall also carry at the rear, either as part of the rear lamp or separately, at
least one approved red reflector, which shall be of such size and
characteristics and so maintained as to be visible during the times when
lighted lamps are required from all distances within 300 feet to 50 feet from
such vehicle when directly in front of a motor vehicle displaying lawful
undimmed headlamps.
   (C)   Every new passenger car, new commercial motor vehicle, motor-drawn
vehicle, and omnibus with a capacity of more than six passengers registered in
this state after January 1, 1966, when operated on a highway, shall also carry
at the rear at least two approved red reflectors, at least one at each side, so
designed, mounted on the vehicle, and maintained as to be visible during the
times when lighted lamps are required from all distances within 500 to 50 feet
from such vehicle when directly in front of a motor vehicle displaying lawful
undimmed headlamps. Every such reflector shall meet the requirements of this
subchapter and shall be mounted upon the vehicle at a height not to exceed 60
inches nor less than 15 inches above the surface upon which the vehicle stands.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly operates a motor vehicle without the lamps
required in this section in operable condition is guilty of an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 380.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.06 AUXILIARY LAMPS; NUMBER; LOCATION.
   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed three auxiliary lamps
mounted on the front at a height not less than 12 inches nor more than 42
inches above the level surface upon which the vehicle stands.
(Prior Code, § 380.060)
§ 78.07 COWL, FENDER, RUNNING BOARD, AND BACKUP LAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two side cowl or fender
lamps which shall emit a white or yellow light without glare. Any motor vehicle
may be equipped with not more than one running board courtesy lamp on each side
thereof which shall emit a white or yellow light without glare. Any motor
vehicle may be equipped with a backup lamp either separately or in combination
with another lamp; except that no such backup lamp shall be continuously
lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
(Prior Code, § 380.070)
§ 78.08 SPOTLAMPS.
   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not to exceed one spotlamp, but every
lighted spotlamp shall be so aimed and used so as not to be dazzling or glaring
to any person.
(Prior Code, § 380.080)
§ 78.09 COLORS OF VARIOUS LAMPS; RESTRICTION OF RED LIGHTS.
   Headlamps, when lighted, shall exhibit lights substantially white in color;
auxiliary lamps, cowl lamps, and spot lamps, when lighted, shall exhibit lights
substantially white, yellow, or amber in color. No person shall drive or move
any vehicle or equipment, except a school bus when used for school purposes or
an emergency vehicle upon any street or highway with any lamp or device thereon
displaying a red light visible from directly in front thereof.
(Prior Code, § 380.090) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.10 LIMITATIONS ON LAMPS OTHER THAN HEADLAMPS; FLASHING SIGNALS PROHIBITED
EXCEPT ON SPECIFIED VEHICLES.
   Any lighted lamp or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle other than
headlamps, spot lamps, front direction signals, or auxiliary lamps which
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
Alternately flashing warning signals may be used on school buses when used for
school purposes and on motor vehicles when used to transport United States mail
from post offices to boxes of addressees thereof and on emergency vehicles as
defined in §
70.02, but are prohibited on other motor vehicles, motorcycles, and motor-drawn
vehicles except as a means for indicating a right or left turn.
(Prior Code, § 380.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.11 LIMITATION ON TOTAL OF LAMPS LIGHTED AT ONE TIME.
   At the times when lighted lamps are required, at least two lighted lamps
shall be displayed, one on each side of the front of every motor vehicle except
a motorcycle and except a motor-drawn vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the provisions governing lights on parked vehicles. Whenever
a motor vehicle equipped with headlamps as required in this subchapter is also
equipped with any auxiliary lamps or a spot lamp or any other lamp on the front
thereof projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not
more than a total of four of any such lamps on the front of a vehicle shall be
lighted at any one time when upon a highway.
(Prior Code, § 380.110)
§ 78.12 OTHER VEHICLES; HOW LIGHTED.
   All vehicles, including agricultural machinery or implements, road
machinery, road rollers, traction engines, and farm tractors not in this
subchapter specifically required to be equipped with lamps, shall be equipped
during the times when lighted lamps are required with at least one lighted lamp
or lantern exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of such vehicle and with a lamp or lantern exhibiting a red light visible
from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, and such lamps and lanterns shall
exhibit lights to the sides of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 380.120)
§ 78.13 ANIMAL-DRIVEN VEHICLES, LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person who shall place, or drive or cause to be placed or driven, upon
or along any state highway of this city any animal-driven vehicle whatsoever,
whether in motion or at rest, shall after sunset to one-half hour before
sunrise have attached to every such vehicle at the rear thereof a red taillight
or a red reflecting device of not less than three inches in diameter of
effective area or its equivalent in area. When such device shall consist of
reflecting buttons, there shall be no less than seven of such buttons covering
an area equal to a circle with a three-inch diameter. The total subtended
effective angle of reflection of every such device shall be no less than 60
degrees and the spread and efficiency of the reflected light shall be
sufficient for the reflected light to be visible to the driver of any motor
vehicle approaching such animal-drawn vehicle from the rear of a distance of
not less than 500 feet. In addition, any person who operates any such animal-
driven vehicle during the hours between sunset and one-half hour before sunrise
shall have at least one light flashing at all times the vehicle is on any
highway of this city. Such light or lights shall be amber in the front and red
in the back and shall be placed on the left side of the vehicle at a height of
no more than six feet from the ground and shall be visible from the front and
the back of the vehicle at a distance of at least 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 380.130) Penalty, see §
10.99
OTHER VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
§ 78.25 OTHER EQUIPMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Signaling devices. Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a horn,
directed forward, or whistle in good working order, capable of emitting a sound
adequate in quantity and volume to give warning of the approach of such vehicle
to other users of the highway and to pedestrians. Such signaling device shall
be used for warning purposes only and shall not be used for making any
unnecessary noise, and no other sound-producing signaling device shall be used
at any time.
   (B)   Muffler cutouts. Muffler cutouts shall not be used and no vehicle
shall be driven in such manner or condition that excessive and unnecessary
noises shall be made by its machinery, motor, signaling device, or other parts,
or by any improperly loaded cargo. The motors of all motor vehicles shall be
fitted with properly attached mufflers of such capacity or construction as to
quiet the maximum possible exhaust noise as completely as is done in modern gas
engine passenger motor vehicles. Any cutout or opening in the exhaust pipe
between the motor and the muffler on any motor vehicle shall be completely
closed and disconnected from its operating lever, and shall be so arranged that
it cannot automatically open, or be opened or operated while such vehicle is in
motion.
   (C)   Brakes. All motor vehicles, except motorcycles, shall be provided at
all times with two sets of adequate brakes, kept in good working order, and
motorcycles shall be provided with one set of adequate brakes kept in good
working order.
   (D)   Mirrors. All motor vehicles which are so constructed or loaded that
the operator cannot see the road behind such vehicle by looking back or around
the side of such vehicle shall be equipped with a mirror so adjusted as to
reveal the road behind and be visible from the operator’s seat.
   (E)   Projections on vehicles. All vehicles carrying poles or other objects,
which project more than five feet from the rear of such vehicle, shall, during
the period when lights are required by this chapter, carry a red light at or
near the rear end of the pole or other object so projecting. At other times a
red flag or cloth, not less than 16 inches square, shall be displayed at the
end of such projection.
   (F)   Towlines. When one vehicle is towing another, the connecting device
shall not exceed 15 feet. During the time that lights are required by RSMo. §§
307.020 to 307.120, the required lights shall be displayed by both vehicles.
Every towed vehicle shall be coupled to the towing vehicle by means of a safety
chain, cable, or equivalent device in addition to the primary coupling device,
except that such secondary coupling device shall not be necessary if the
connecting device is connected to the towing vehicle by a center-locking ball
located over or nearly over the rear axle and not supported by the rear bumper
of the towing vehicle. Such secondary safety connecting devices shall be of
sufficient strength to control the towed vehicle in the event of failure of the
primary coupling device. The provisions of this division (F) shall not apply to
wreckers towing vehicles or to vehicles secured to the towing vehicle by a
fifth-wheel type connection. The provisions of this division (F) shall also not
apply to farm implements, or to any vehicle which is not required to be
registered.
   (G)   Commercial motor vehicles and trailers. When being operated on any
highway, street, or road of this city, commercial motor vehicles and trailers
shall be equipped with adequate and proper brakes, lighting equipment,
signaling devices, steering mechanisms, horns, mirrors, windshield wipers,
tires, wheels, exhaust system, glazing, air pollution control devices, fuel
tank, and any other safety equipment required by the state in such condition so
as to obtain a certificate of inspection and approval as required by the
provisions of RSMo. § 307.360.
   (H)   Transporting hay. Devices attached to or towed by motor vehicles for
the purpose of transporting hay shall have the protruding parts raised or
retracted when not in use to a position which will not cause injury or damage
to persons or property in the vicinity of such device when on the highways,
streets, or roads of this city.
(Prior Code, § 380.140) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.26 LOADS WHICH MIGHT BECOME DISLODGED TO BE SECURED; FAILURE.
   All motor vehicles, and every trailer and semi-trailer operating upon the
public highways, streets, or roads of this city and carrying goods or material
or farm products which may reasonably be expected to become dislodged and fall
from the vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer as a result of wind pressure or air
pressure and/or by the movement of the vehicle, trailer, or semi-trailer shall
have a protective cover or be sufficiently secured so that no portion of such
goods or material can become dislodged and fall from the vehicle, trailer, or
semi-trailer while being transported or carried.
(Prior Code, § 380.150) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.27 SEAT BELTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PASSENGER CAR. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying ten persons or
less and used for the transportation of persons, except that the term PASSENGER
CAR shall not include motorcycles, motorized bicycles, motor tricycles, and
trucks with a licensed gross weight of 12,000 pounds or more.
      TRUCK. A motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained for the
transportation of property.
   (B)   Each driver, except persons employed by the United States Postal
Service while performing duties for that federal agency which require the
operator to service postal boxes from their vehicles, or which require frequent
entry into and exit from their vehicles, and front seat passengers of a
passenger car manufactured after January 1, 1968, operated on a street or
highway in the city, and persons less than 18 years of age operating or riding
in a truck, as defined in division (A) above, on a street or highway of this
city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened safety belt that meets the
requirements of the Federal National Highway, Transportation, and Safety Act,
being 23 U.S.C. §§ 401 et seq.; except that, a child less than four years of
age shall be protected as required in §
78.28. No person shall be stopped, inspected, or detained solely to determine
compliance with this division (B). The provisions of this section shall not be
applicable to persons who have a medical reason for failing to have a seat belt
fastened about their body, nor shall the provisions of this section be
applicable to persons while operating or riding a motor vehicle being used in
agricultural work-related activities. Non-compliance with this division (B)
shall not constitute probable cause for violation of any other provision of
law.
   (C)   Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child less than 16 years
of age shall secure the child in a properly adjusted and fastened restraint
under RSMo. § 307.179.
   (D)   If there are more persons than there are seat belts in the enclosed
area of a motor vehicle, then the driver and passengers are not in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 380.160) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.28 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every person transporting a child under the age of four years shall be
responsible, when transporting such child in a motor vehicle operated by that
person on the streets or highways of this city, for providing for the
protection of such child. Such child shall be protected by a child passenger
restraint system approved by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any public carrier for hire.
(Prior Code, § 380.170)
§ 78.29 VISION-REDUCING MATERIAL APPLIED TO WINDSHIELD OR WINDOWS PROHIBITED;
RULES, PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person may operate a motor vehicle with front sidewing vents or
windows located immediately to the left and right of the driver that have a
sun-screening device, in conjunction with safety glazing material, that has a
light transmission of 35% or more plus or minus 3% and a luminous reflectance
of 35% or less plus or minus 3%. Except as provided in division (C) of this
section, any sun-screening device applied to front sidewing vents or windows
located immediately to the left and right of the driver in excess of the
requirements of this section shall be prohibited without a permit pursuant to a
physician’s prescription as described below. A permit to operate a motor
vehicle with front sidewing vents or windows located immediately to the left
and right of the driver that have a sun-screening device, in conjunction with
safety glazing material, which permits less light transmission and luminous
reflectance than allowed under the requirements of this section, may be issued
by the Department of Public Safety to a person having a serious medical
condition which requires the use of a sun-screening device if the permittee’s
physician prescribes its use. The Director of the Department of Public Safety
shall promulgate rules and regulations for the issuance of the permit. The
permit shall allow operation of the vehicle by any titleholder or relative
within the second degree by consanguinity or affinity, which shall mean a
spouse, each grandparent, parent, brother, sister, niece, nephew, aunt, uncle,
child, and grandchild of a person, who resides in the household, except as
provided in division (B).
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit labels, stickers, decalcomania, or
informational signs on motor vehicles or the application of tinted or solar
screening material to recreational vehicles as defined in section RSMo. §
700.010, provided that such material does not interfere with the driver’s
normal view of the road. This section shall not prohibit factory-installed
tinted glass, the equivalent replacement thereof or tinting material applied to
the upper portion of the motor vehicle’s windshield which is normally tinted by
the manufacturer of motor vehicle safety glass.
   (C)   Any vehicle licensed with a historical license plate shall be exempt
from the requirements of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.30 STUDDED TIRES, PROHIBITED WHEN.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon any road or highway of this
city between April 1 and November 1 while the motor vehicle is equipped with
tires containing metal or carbide studs.
(Prior Code, § 380.200) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 78.31 RESTRICTION ON USE OF METAL-TIRED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No metal-tired vehicle shall be operated over any of the improved
highways of this city, except over highways constructed of gravel or claybound
gravel, if such vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road wheels any lug,
flange, cleat, ridge, bolt, or any projection of metal or wood which projects
radially beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire, unless the highway is
protected by putting down solid planks or other suitable material, or by
attachments to the wheels so as to prevent such vehicles from damaging the
highway, except that this prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction
engines equipped with what is known as caterpillar treads, when such
caterpillar does not contain any projection of any kind likely to injure the
surface of the road. Tractors, traction engines, and similar vehicles may be
operated which have upon their road wheels “V” shaped, diagonal, or other
cleats arranged in such manner as to be continuously in contact with the road
surface if the gross weight on the wheels per inch of width of such cleats or
road surface, when measured in the direction of the axle of the vehicle, does
not exceed 800 pounds.
   (B)   No tractor, tractor engine, or other metal-tired vehicle weighing more
than four tons, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall drive
onto, upon, or over the edge of any improved highway without protecting such
edge by putting down solid planks or other suitable material to prevent such
vehicle from breaking off the edges of the pavement.
   (C)   Any person violating this section, whether operating pursuant to a
permit or not, or who shall willfully or negligently damage a highway, shall be
liable for the amount of such damage caused to any highway, bridge, culvert, or
sewer, and any vehicle causing such damage shall be subject to a lien for the
full amount of such damage, which lien shall not be superior to any duly
recorded or filed chattel mortgage or other lien previously attached to such
vehicle; the amount of such damage may be recovered in any action in any court
of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 380.210)
§ 78.32 PASSENGERS IN TRUCKS.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term TRUCK means a motor vehicle
designed, used, or maintained for the transportation of property.
   (B)   No person shall operate any truck, as defined in division (A) above,
with a licensed gross weight of less than 12,000 pounds on any highway which is
part of the state or federal highway system or when such truck is operated
within the corporate limits of the city when any person under 18 years of age
is riding in the unenclosed bed of such truck. No person under 18 years of age
shall ride in the unenclosed bed of such truck when the truck is in operation.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of the employee’s
duties where it is necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (2)   Any person while engaged in agricultural activities where it is
necessary to ride in the unenclosed bed of the truck;
      (3)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck while such truck
is being operated in a parade, caravan, or exhibition which is authorized by
law;
      (4)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck
has installed a means of preventing such person from being discharged or such
person is secured to the truck in a manner which will prevent the person from
being thrown, falling, or jumping from the truck;
      (5)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
being operated solely for the purpose of participating in a special event and
it is necessary that the person ride in such unenclosed bed due to a lack of
available seating. SPECIAL EVENT, for the purposes of this section, is a
specific social activity of a definable duration which is participated in by
the person riding in the unenclosed bed;
      (6)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
being operated solely for the purposes of providing assistance to, or ensuring
the safety of, other persons engaged in a recreational activity; or
      (7)   Any person riding in the unenclosed bed of a truck if such truck is
the only legally titled, licensed, and insured vehicle owned by the family of
the person riding in the unenclosed bed and there is insufficient room in the
passenger cab of the truck to accommodate all passengers in the truck. For the
purposes of this section, the term FAMILY shall mean any persons related within
the first degree of consanguinity.
(Prior Code, § 380.220) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 79: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed zones and speed limits
   
II.   One-way streets and alleys
   
III.   Through streets and four-way stops
   
IV.   Prohibited parking at all times on certain streets
   
V.   Stop signs
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the city, except that the city may by ordinance declare
and determine upon the basis of engineering and traffic investigation that
certain speed regulation shall be applicable upon specified streets or in
certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place
giving notice thereof, but no city ordinance shall regulate the speed of
vehicles upon controlled access to highways of the state.
304.0-401N20215499.0 Speeding 1-5 mph over limit
304.0-406N20215499.0 Speeding 6-10 mph over limit
304.0-411N20215499.0 Speeding 11-15 mph over !imit
304.0-416N20215499.0 Speeding 16-19 mph over limit
304.0-420N20215499.0 Speeding 20-25 mph over limit
304.0-426n20215499.0 Speeding 26-30 mph over limit
304.0-431N20215499.0 Speeding 31-35 mph over limit
304.0-436N20215499.0 Speeding 36-40 mph over limit
304.0-441N20215499.0 Speeding 41-45 mph over limit
304.0-446N20215499.0 Speeding 46-50 mph over limit
304.0-451N20215499.0 Speeding 51 mph or greater
302.0-042Y20215499.0 Driving while revoked or driving while suspended drivers
                     license
303.0-001N20215499.0 Operating motor vehicle without maintaining financial
                     responsibility
301.0-012N20215499.0 Failed to register vehicle
300.0-014N20215499.0 Failed to stop at stop sign
 
(Ord. 480, passed 3-5-2025)
SCHEDULE I. SPEED ZONES AND SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with §§
74.001 and
74.005, speed zones and speed limits are hereby adopted and established for
streets and alleys within the city.
Location Speed Limit
Location                                Speed Limit
Boonville Street from Route BB 690 feet 15 mph
Boonville Street north to city limits   25 mph
Boonville Street to Route BB west       35 mph
Georgetown Road                         25 mph
Locust Street                           25 mph
Morgan Street                           25 mph
Route A                                 45 mph
Route BB                                35 mph
 
(Prior Code, Title III Schd. I) (Ord. 264, passed 8-3-1993)
SCHEDULE II. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   In accordance with §
75.02 and when properly signposted, traffic shall move only in the direction
indicated upon the following streets.
 
Location                                             Direction
Georgetown from North Boonville Street to Washington One-way westbound
 
(Prior Code, Title III Schd. II) (Ord. 264, passed 8-3-1993; Ord. 480, passed
3-5-2025)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH STREETS AND FOUR-WAY STOPS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
75.15, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of vehicles
shall stop at every intersection before entering any of the following streets
or parts of streets.
 
Location
Grover and Cherry Street
Grover and Vine Street
 
(Prior Code, Title III Schd. III) (Ord. 264, passed 8-3-1993)
SCHEDULE IV. PROHIBITED PARKING AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   In accordance with §
76.067, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park
a vehicle (including motor vehicles, motorcycles, farm tractors, wagons, and
trailers) between the hours specified herein of any day except Sundays and
public holidays within the district or upon any of the streets or parts of
streets as follows.
Location Restriction
Location                            Restriction
                                     
                                    Within 50 feet of the intersection of the
                                    east line of Boonville Street with the
Boonville Street                    north line of Route BB
East half                           Within 100 feet of the intersection of the
                                   east line of Boonville Street with the
                                   south line of Route BB
                                    
                                   Within 100 feet of the intersection of the
West half                           west line of Boonville Street with the
                                    north line of Route BB
                                    Within 50 feet of the intersection of the
                                    west line of Boonville Street with the
                                    south line of Route BB
Boonville Street to Georgetown Road At all times
Route A                             At all times
Route BB                            North end of Route A to city limits on the
                                    west end
                                     
Route BB                            Within 50 feet of the intersection of the
North half                          west line of Boonville Street with the
                                   north line of Route BB
                                    
South half                          Within 100 feet of the intersection of the
                                    west line of Boonville Street with the
                                    south line of Route BB
Route BB west                       At all times
Route A in city limits              Within 30 feet of the center of the road on
                                    the north and south side of Route A
 
(Prior Code, Title III Schd. IV) (Ord. 229, passed 8-7-1984; Ord. 264, passed
8-3-1993; Ord. 229, passed 6-3-1997; Ord. 480, passed 3-5-2025)
SCHEDULE V. STOP SIGNS.
   In accordance with §
75.18, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, drivers of motor
vehicles shall cause said vehicles to stop at the indicated intersections.
Location
Location
Boonville Street and Georgetown Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Boonville Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Clinton Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Grover Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Jefferson Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Montgomery Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Morgan Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Union Street
Cooper County Road BB (Boonville Street) and Washington Street
Main (Hwy A) Street and Boonville Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Cherry Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Locust Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Morgan Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Olive Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Pacific Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Vine Street
Main Street (Hwy A) and Washington Street
Four-Way Intersections
Grover Street and Cherry Street
Grover Street and Vine Street
 
(Prior Code, Title III Schd. V) (Ord. 154, passed 12-14-1971; Ord. 339, passed
3-5-2005; Ord. 480, passed 3-5-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal control officer
   
90.03   Vaccination and tag
   
90.04   Licensing regulations
   
90.05   Running at large prohibited impoundment
   
90.06   Vicious dogs prohibited; exceptions; impoundment
   
90.07   Duty to impound
   
90.08   Cost of impoundment
   
90.09   Notice of impoundment
   
90.10   Impoundment fees
   
90.11   Term of impoundment
   
90.12   Dogs creating a nuisance
   
90.13   Animal neglect
   
90.14   Animal abuse
   
90.15   Limitation on horses and other farm animals
   
90.16   Dog kennels
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOGS. All animals of the canine, both male and female.
   OWNER or KEEPER. Any person haying a right of property in a dog or who keeps
or harbors a dog or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises owned or
occupied by him or her.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Suffering a dog to be off the private premises of the
owner or keeper, or his or her agent or servant, and not on a leash or confined
to the arms, motor vehicle, trailer, or other conveyance of the owner or
keeper, his or her agent or servant.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. Physical injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of
the function of any part of the body.
   TRESPASSER. A person upon the premises of the owner or keeper of the dog in
question without license or privilege to be upon said premises.
   UNRESTRAINED DOG. Any dog running at large, or a dog on the premises of its
owner or keeper but not confined to said premises by a leash, fence, structure,
or other means that would prevent the dog from leaving such premises.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any of the following dogs:
      (1)   Any dog, whether or not running at large, and whether or not
unrestrained, that without provocation has bitten any person not a trespasser
causing serious physical injury to that person;
      (2)   Any unrestrained dog, whether or not running at large, that without
provocation has attempted to bite any person not a trespasser which would cause
serious physical injury to that person;
      (3)   Any unrestrained dog, whether or not running at large, that without
provocation has placed any person not a trespasser in apprehension of immediate
serious physical injury; and
      (4)   Any dog that has killed another dog, cat, or other domestic animal
without provocation.
(Prior Code, § 205.010)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It is hereby established the position of animal control officer. The
officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent and approval of the
majority of the members of the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The animal control officer will be under the supervision of the Chief
of Police of the city. The animal control officer shall be of good character.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to enforce all
provisions of this chapter which regulates animals in the city.
(Ord. 364, passed 8-5-2006)
§ 90.03 VACCINATION AND TAG.
   The owner or keeper of any dog in the city is hereby required to have such
animals vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and to procure a
certificate of such vaccination from the veterinarian and to present such
certificate to the City Clerk, and the City Clerk shall register such
certificate, which registration shall remain in force for up to three years,
depending on the veterinarian's certificate. The City Clerk shall issue a tag
evidencing the registration and certificate of vaccination, and the owner or
keeper shall securely attach the tag so issued to a collar to be worn
continuously by the animal for which the tag was issued. It shall be unlawful
for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such animal to remain in the city
unless wearing the tag above provided for herein. Upon conviction, the penalty
for owning a dog which has not been tagged shall be a fine of not less than
$50.
(Prior Code, § 205.020; Ord. 474, passed 8-2-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 LICENSING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   License tax fees. Every person who shall own or keep any dog within
the city limits, or permit a dog to remain on their premises, shall pay an
annual license tax for each dog over the age of three months in the sum of $10
for altered animals and $20 for intact animals. For dogs entering the city
adopted or born shall be licensed within 30 days of residence or three months
of age.
   (B)   License tax due when. The license tax above levied is due by May 1
each year at City Hall. The City Clerk, upon delivery of a certificate of a
licensed veterinarian that such dog to be licensed has been vaccinated as
required by §
90.03 and upon payment of said tax and such other fees as required by
ordinance, shall issue a dog license to the owner or keeper of such animal.
Such license shall be valid for one, two, or three years, depending on the type
of vaccination. The fee for a tag shall be $10 for a one-year license, $20 for
a two-year license, and $30 for a three-year license. The license tax is
considered late as of June 1, thereafter a $25 late fee will be imposed.
   (C)   Tags. It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of every dog
required to be licensed by this chapter to place around the neck of such dog a
collar to which shall be attached the dog license furnished or issued by the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Administration of licenses. The Board of Aldermen shall each year
furnish to the City Clerk a sufficient number of dog licenses, to be paid for
from the General Revenue Account of the city. Such licenses shall have cast or
printed thereon “Otterville”, the number of the license tag, the year of issue,
and the year of expiration. The Board of Aldermen shall require a receipt from
the City Clerk for such licenses and the City Clerk shall account for the same
in the same manner and at the time of his or her accounting for the dog license
fees. The fees collected shall be deposited in the General Revenue Account of
the city.
   (E)   Registration book. The City Clerk shall keep a registration book,
causing all dogs for which a license is issued, to be registered therein. The
registration book shall contain the name and description of the dog, the name
and address of the owner, the date of registration, the length of the license,
the number of the license issued, and the date of issue and the date said
licensed dog was last vaccinated.
   (F)   Any dog taken up by the city without a valid tag shall be vaccinated
and tagged before return to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 205.025) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988; Ord. 320, passed 7-12-2003;
Ord. 434, passed 7-13-2015; Ord. 474, passed 8-2-2023)
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   General regulation. It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of
any dog to permit the same to run at large within the city at any time. Any dog
found without the tag provided in §
90.03, and any dog found running at large, shall be impounded.
   (B)   Impoundment procedure.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall take up and impound every dog found
running at large in said city. All dogs impounded shall be kept in the custody
of the Chief of Police for a period of not less than five days unless sooner
redeemed by their owners. They shall be fed, watered, and shielded from the
elements in a manner acceptable to good veterinary practice. At the end of five
days, if an unlicensed dog has not been claimed, the Chief of Police is at
liberty to dispose of the dog in any of the following ways:
         (a)   The destruction of an animal accomplished by a method approved
by the American Veterinary Medical Association’s Panel on Euthanasia (JAVMA
173; 59-72, 1978); or more recent editions, but animals killed during the
feeding of pet carnivores shall be considered humanely killed;
         (b)   Releasing the dog to any person expressing a desire for any
given dog after the payment of the impoundment fee of $5 per day, and the
procurement of the license required by this chapter before releasing; or
         (c)   Releasing the dog to an accredited public school within the
state which has a recognized research program and whose methods of animal care
and use are approved by the city’s Board of Aldermen and upon payment of the
impoundment fee of $5 per day.
      (2)   If a licensed dog is impounded, the Chief of Police shall notify
the owner by regular U.S. mail of the impoundment and that if such dog is not
redeemed within five days of the date of the notice, by payment of impoundment
fee, such dog will be disposed of in one of the same ways an unlicensed dog may
be disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 205.030) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS; IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, or harbor a vicious dog in the city
except in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to go outside
its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no longer
than four feet in length. No person shall permit a vicious dog to be kept on a
chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person
is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, or buildings. In addition, all vicious dogs on a
leash outside its kennel or pen must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient
to prevent such dog from biting persons or other animals.
   (B)   Confinement. All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in
a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled
as provided above. Such pen, kennel, or structure must have secure sides and a
secure top attached to the sides. All structures used to confine vicious dogs
must be locked with a key or combination lock when such dogs are within the
structure. Said structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be imbedded in the ground no less
than two feet. Also such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated
and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio, or
any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such building
on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or
structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are
the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   (D)   Signs. All owners, keepers, or harborers of vicious dogs within the
city shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily
readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog.” In addition, a similar
sign is required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such dog.
   (E)   Definition. A person commits the offense of keeping a dangerous dog if
he or she owns or possesses a dog that has previously bitten a person or a
domestic animal without provocation and that dog bites any person on a
subsequent occasion, or has charged at a person while not on the owner's
property in a threatening manner such but not limited to barking, growling,
showing teeth.
   (F)   Penalty.
 
First Offense  $150
Second Offense $300
Third Offense  $500 and must be removed from city by owner.
 
(Prior Code, § 205.040) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988; Ord. 485, passed 6-4-2025)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DUTY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, the city police, and any
other person of the city, especially designated by the Board of Aldermen and
the Mayor for such purpose, to take up any dog without the tag provided in §
90.03, any dog running at large or any vicious dog in violation of §
90.06, and to impound the same.
   (B)   In effecting the capture of any dog, the officers aforesaid are
authorized and directed to use traps, nets, tranquilizer guns, or any other
humane method.
(Prior Code, § 205.050) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988)
§ 90.08 COST OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any officer performing duties under this chapter shall be compensated
from the City Treasury as provided from time to time by the Board of Aldermen.
Such officer shall account to the city for all sums collected from owners or
keepers under this chapter, and pay same into the City Treasury.
   (B)   Costs of feeding and keeping dogs or cats impounded shall be paid from
the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 205.060)
§ 90.09 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Every officer impounding a dog under this chapter shall, within 24 hours
after such impounding, enter upon a registry open to the public, and in plain
public view at the City Hall, a description of such dog including breed, color,
and approximate size, and the date apprehended, and if the owner or keeper is
known, the name and address of such owner or keeper; or the owner or keeper
shall be given actual notice of the impoundment of such dog before disposition
of such dog.
(Prior Code, § 205.070)
§ 90.10 IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   Any dog redeemed by the owner within five business days after impoundment,
after payment to the City Clerk of the license fee for the current year if said
dog is unlicensed, shall pay additional impounding fee to City Hall per dog
impounded.
 
First impoundment  $50
Second impoundment $100
Third impoundment  $200
Plus $15 per dog per day of confinement for the cost of boarding
 
(Ord. 432, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 90.11 TERM OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any officer impounding any dog under this chapter to
keep the same impounded for a period of five days, including Sundays and
holidays, unless such dog shall be reclaimed by his or her owner or keeper
under §
90.11. If, after the expiration of said five-day period from the date of such
impoundment, such dog shall not have been reclaimed, the same shall be disposed
of or destroyed in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 205.090)
§ 90.12 DOGS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor within the city limits of the City of
Otterville, Missouri any dog which by frequent, habitual or continued barking,
yelping or howling shall unreasonably annoy or disturb any neighborhood or
person, or by habitually jumping upon a threatening person upon public streets
or personal property shall cause persons thereon to be put in fear of injury or
habitually, spreads garbage, chases vehicles on public streets or habitually
attacks other domestic animals or pets and any such dog is hereby declared to
be a nuisance.
   (B)   The animal control officer or any member of the Police Department is
authorized to use all reasonable means to abate the nuisance referred to in
division (A).
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violation of division (A) shall be subject
to a fine of:
 
First Offense  $100
Second Offense $150
Third Offense  $300
 
   (D)   A person commits the offense of keeping a dangerous dog if he or she
owns or possesses a dog that has previously bitten a person or a domestic
animal without provocation and that dog bites any person on a subsequent
occasion or a person omits the offense of keeping a dangerous dog if he or she
owns or possesses a dog that has previously aggressively threatened a person
that is not on the property of the owner of the dog. This includes, but not
limited to: charging a person that is not on the owner of the dog property,
growls, and the person feels threatened by the dog.
(Prior Code, § 205.095) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988; Ord. 486, passed 6-4-2025)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ANIMAL NEGLECT.
   (A)   A person is guilty of animal neglect when he or she has custody or
ownership, or both, of an animal and fails to provide adequate care or adequate
control, including, but not limited to, knowingly abandoning an animal in any
place without making provisions for its adequate care which results in
substantial harm to the animal.
   (B)   Animal neglect is a misdemeanor. All fines and penalties for a first
conviction of animal neglect may be waived by the court, provided that the
person found guilty of animal neglect shows that adequate, permanent remedies
for the neglect have been made. Reasonable costs incurred for the care and
maintenance of neglected animals may not be waived.
(Prior Code, § 205.100)
§ 90.14 ANIMAL ABUSE.
   (A)   A person is guilty of animal abuse when a person:
      (1)   Intentionally or purposely kills an animal in any manner not
allowed by or expressly exempted from the provisions of RSMo. §§ 578.005 to
578.023 and 273.030;
      (2)   Purposely or intentionally causes injury or suffering to an animal;
or
      (3)   Having ownership or custody of an animal knowingly fails to provide
adequate care or adequate control.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, ANIMAL shall be defined as a mammal.
(Prior Code, § 205.110)
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 90.15 LIMITATION ON HORSES AND OTHER FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   No horses, cattle, swine, or any other farm animals shall be kept or
pastured within the city limits, unless said animals are on farms of more than
25 acres and where animals are housed in structures located more than 500 feet
from property lines.
   (B)   This section shall not prevent the keeping of small animals commonly
housed in a dwelling but not on a commercial basis. No more than 12 chickens
will be permitted, no rooster will be allowed. Animal dwelling shall be no less
than 25 feet from the property line.
(Ord. 433, passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16 DOG KENNELS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to maintain or operate a dog kennel within the
city shall first obtain a license from the City Collector to do so and pay a
kennel license tax of $35 per annum for three dogs over the age of three months
and $25 per dog for each dog over the age of three months. A DOG KENNEL, for
purposes of this section, shall be an establishment kept for the purposes of
selling, boarding, or training dogs but shall not be for the purpose of
breeding dogs which is expressly prohibited under this section. No person shall
maintain a dog kennel except pursuant to a license to maintain and keep a dog
kennel. No person shall at any time keep, harbor, or own at one location within
the city more than three dogs over the age of three months without a kennel
license.
   (B)   All structures, pens, coops, or yards wherein dogs are permitted at a
dog kennel shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times,
devoid of all rodents and vermin and free from offensive, disagreeable, or
noxious smell or odor to the injury, annoyance, or inconvenience of any
inhabitants in the neighborhood. Any person purchasing a kennel license shall
be provided a copy of this section and by purchasing a kennel license hereby
consents and agrees to a random inspection of the premises where the kennel is
maintained by the Chief of Police or any authorized city official.
(Prior Code, § 205.130) (Ord. 240, passed 3-1-1988; Ord. 321, passed 7-12-2003;
Ord. 338, passed 3-5-2005)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons convicted of §
90.15 shall be fined not more than $500 or be imprisoned not more than 90 days,
or shall be punished by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 433, passed 7-13-2015)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Generally
   
91.01   Nuisances affecting health
   
91.02   Animal waste prohibited on public and private property; exception
Abandoned Property
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Abandoned vehicles prohibited
   
91.17   Open storage of inoperable vehicles or public safety hazards prohibited
   
91.18   Obstructing the flow of traffic prohibited
   
91.19   Towing of abandoned property on public real property
   
91.20   Towing of abandoned property on private real property
   
91.21   General provisions and procedures
   
91.22   Maximum charges
   
91.23   Sale of abandoned property by city
Weeds, High Grass, or Other Vegetation
   
91.35   Property maintenance
   
91.36   Weeds and debris as a public nuisance
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERALLY
§ 91.01 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   (A)   Nuisances generally. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting health:
      (1)   All decayed or unwholesome food offered for sale to the public, or
offered to the public at no charge;
      (2)   All diseased animals running at large;
      (3)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
      (4)   Carcasses of dead animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours
after death;
      (5)   Accumulations, wheresoever they may occur, of manure, rubbish,
garbage, refuse, and human and industrial, noxious or offensive waste, except
the normal storage on a farm of manure for agricultural purposes;
      (6)   Privy vaults or garbage cans which are not fly-tight, that is,
privy vaults or garbage cans which do not prevent the entry of flies, insects,
and rodents;
      (7)   The pollution of any well, cistern, spring, underground water
stream, lake, canal, or body of water by sewage or industrial wastes, or other
substances harmful to human beings;
      (8)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders in
unreasonable quantities, or the presence of any gas, vapor, fumes, smoke, dust,
or any other toxic substance on, in, or emitted from the equipment of any
premises in quantities sufficient to be toxic, harmful, or injurious to the
health of any employee or to any premises, occupant, or to any other person;
      (9)   Common drinking cups, roller towels, combs, brushes, or eating
utensils in public or semi-public places where not properly sanitized after
use;
      (10)   Any vehicle used for septic tank cleaning which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter;
      (11)   Any vehicle used for garbage or rubbish disposal which is not
equipped with a watertight metal body and provided with a tight metal cover or
covers and so constructed as to prevent any of the contents from leaking,
spilling, falling, or blowing out of such vehicle at any time, except while
being loaded or not completely secured and covered so as to prevent offensive
odors from escaping therefrom or exposing any part of the contents at any time;
      (12)   Any and all infestations of flies, fleas, roaches, lice, ticks,
rats, mice, fly maggots, mosquito larvae, and hookworm larvae;
      (13)   The keeping of animals and fowls in any area within the city not
zoned for agricultural uses except pet cats and dogs, animals in public or
licensed zoos, and farm animals in laboratories;
      (14)   Unlicensed dumps, and licensed dumps not operated or maintained in
compliance with the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state;
      (15)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into a
stormwater system any waste materials, liquids, vapor, fat, gasoline, benzene,
naphtha, oil or petroleum product, mud, straw, lawn clippings, tree limbs or
branches, metal or plastic objects, rags, garbage, or any other substance which
is capable of causing an obstruction to the flow of the storm system or
interfere with the proper operation of the system, or which will pollute the
natural creeks or waterways; and
      (16)   All other acts, practices, conduct, business, occupation callings,
trades, uses of property, and all other things detrimental or certain to be
detrimental to the health of the inhabitants of the city.
   (B)   Unlawful to cause, maintain within city or one-half mile thereof. It
is unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent, servant,
representative, or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant, having
control of any occupied lot or land or any part thereof in the city, or within
one-half mile of the corporate limits of the city, to cause, permit, or
maintain a nuisance on any such lot or land. Additionally, it is unlawful for
any person or his or her agent, servant, representative, or employee to cause,
or maintain a nuisance on the land or property of another, with or without
permission. Each day that a nuisance shall be maintained is a separate offense.
   (C)   Authority to abate emergency cases. In cases where it reasonably
appears that there is an immediate danger to the health, safety, or welfare of
the public due to the existence of a nuisance, the Mayor or his or her
designate shall have the authority to order the Chief of Police or Health
Officer or other city official to immediately abate the nuisance in an
appropriate manner.
   (D)   Abatement; procedure generally. Whenever the Board of Aldermen
receives notification that a nuisance may exist, it shall proceed as follows,
except as may be otherwise provided herein.
      (1)   It shall investigate the same. The Board may order any person who
has caused or is maintaining the nuisance to appear before the Board at such
time and place as the Board may direct to show cause, if any, why that person
should not abate the nuisance. Every person required to appear before the Board
shall have at least ten days’ notice thereof.
      (2)   Such notice shall be signed by the Health Officer or Chief of
Police and shall be served upon that person by delivering a copy thereof to the
person, or by leaving a copy at his or her residence with some member of the
family or household over 15 years of age, or upon any corporation by delivering
the copy thereof to the President or to any other officer at any business
office of the corporation within the city. If the notice cannot be given for
the reason that the person named in the notice or his or her agent cannot be
found in the city, of which fact the return upon such notice of the officer
serving the same shall be conclusive evidence, such notice shall be published
in a daily newspaper for three consecutive days, if a daily, or once if a
weekly paper, giving at least ten days’ notice from the final publication date
of the time fixed for the parties to appear before the Board.
      (3)   If after hearing all the evidence the Board of Aldermen may
determine that a nuisance exists, it may direct the Health Officer or Chief of
Police, or other city official to order the person to abate the nuisance within
20 days or within such other time as the Board may deem reasonable. Such order
shall be served in the manner provided in this section for service of the order
to show cause. The order may further provide that the appropriate city official
be directed to abate the nuisance if the order is not obeyed within the time
period set by the Board, and that a special tax bill be issued for the costs of
abating the nuisance.
      (4)   If the order has not been obeyed within the time period set by the
Board, the appropriate city official shall proceed to abate the nuisance in the
manner provided by the order of the Board, and the cost of same, if ordered by
the Board, may be assessed as a special tax against the property so improved or
upon which such work was done; and, if so ordered, the City Clerk shall cause a
special tax bill therefor against the owner thereof when known, and if not
known then against the unknown persons, and the certified bills of such
assessment shall describe therein the property upon which the work was done.
      (5)   The bills for the above work shall be recorded and shall be
collected and paid as provided for the collection of other special tax bills
for the repairing of sidewalks or grading or paving of streets and shall be a
lien on the property.
      (6)   The cost of abating nuisances on private property shall be levied
and assessed on each lot in proportion to the amount of work done and material
used in abating the nuisance located on each such lot.
(Prior Code, § 215.010) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 ANIMAL WASTE PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY; EXCEPTION.
   Any person in physical possession and control of any animal shall remove
excreta or other solid waste deposited by the animal in any public or private
area not designated to receive such wastes, including, but not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, parking lots, public parks or recreation areas, and private
property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a guide dog
accompanying any blind person.
(Prior Code, § 215.020)
ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any unattended motor vehicle, trailer, all-terrain
vehicle, outboard motor, or vessel removed or subject to removal from public or
private property as provided in this subchapter, whether or not operational.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, or other legal entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire width of land between the boundary lines of a
public road or state highway, including any roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a public road or state highway ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   TOWING COMPANY. Any person or entity which tows, removes, or stores
abandoned property.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. § 304.010
§ 91.16 ABANDONED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any public
road or state highway or on any private real property owned by another without
his or her consent.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. § 577.080.
§ 91.17 OPEN STORAGE OF INOPERABLE VEHICLES OR PUBLIC SAFETY HAZARDS
PROHIBITED.
   The open storage of inoperable vehicles or other vehicles deemed by the city
to constitute a public safety hazard is prohibited. Nothing in this section
shall apply to a vehicle which is completely enclosed within a locked building
or locked fenced area and not visible from adjacent public or private property,
nor to any vehicle upon the property of a business licensed as salvage, swap,
junk dealer, towing, or storage facility so long as the business is operated in
compliance with its business license and the property is in compliance with
applicable zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. § 304.159
§ 91.18 OBSTRUCTING THE FLOW OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   Except in the case of an accident resulting in the injury or death of any
person, the driver of a vehicle which for any reason obstructs the regular flow
of traffic on the roadway of any public road or state highway shall make every
reasonable effort to move the vehicle or have it moved so as not to block the
regular flow of traffic.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. § 304.151
§ 91.19 TOWING OF ABANDONED PROPERTY ON PUBLIC REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer, or an official of the city where the
city’s real property is concerned, may authorize a towing company to remove to
a place of safety:
      (1)   Any abandoned property on the right-of-way of any state highway, or
interstate highway or freeway of the city, left unattended for more than 48
hours; provided that commercial motor vehicles not hauling waste designated as
hazardous under 49 U.S.C. § 5103(a) may only be removed under this section to a
place of safety until the owner or owner’s representative has had a reasonable
opportunity to contact a towing company of choice;
      (2)   Any unattended abandoned property illegally left standing upon any
highway or bridge if the abandoned property is left in a position or under such
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic where there is no
reasonable indication that the person in control of the property is arranging
for its immediate control or removal;
      (3)   Any abandoned property which has been abandoned under §
91.16 or RSMo. § 577.080;
      (4)   Any abandoned property which has been reported as stolen or taken
without consent of the owner;
      (5)   Any abandoned property for which the person operating such property
is arrested for an alleged offense for which the officer is required to take
the person into custody and where such person is unable to arrange for the
property’s timely removal;
      (6)   Any abandoned property which, due to any other state law or city
ordinance, is subject to towing because of the owner’s outstanding traffic or
parking violations; and
      (7)   Any abandoned property left unattended in violation of a state law
or city ordinance where signs have been posted giving notice of the law or
where the violation causes a safety hazard.
   (B)   When the city’s Police Department authorizes a tow pursuant to this
section in which the abandoned property is moved from the immediate vicinity,
it shall complete a crime inquiry and inspection report.
   (C)   Any city agency other than the city’s Police Department authorizing a
tow under this section where property is towed away from the immediate vicinity
shall report the tow to the city’s Police Department within two hours of the
tow, along with a crime inquiry and inspection report.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 304.155.1 and 304.155.3
§ 91.20 TOWING OF ABANDONED PROPERTY ON PRIVATE REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. The city, including the city’s Police Department, may tow
motor vehicles from real property which are deemed a public safety hazard
pursuant to §
91.17, or are derelict junk, scrapped, disassembled, or otherwise harmful to
the public health. The city shall perform such tow pursuant to the terms of §
91.21. When a city agency other than the Police Department authorizes a tow
under this division (A), it shall report the tow to the Police Department
within two hours with a crime inquiry and inspection report. Provided, however,
that no vehicle shall be towed from any private property without the consent of
the owner of the real estate or an administrative search warrant.
   (B)   Towing authorized by city’s Police Department. If a person abandons
property on any real property owned by another without the consent of the owner
or person in possession of the real property, at the request of the person in
possession of the real property, any city police officer may authorize a towing
company to remove such abandoned property from the property in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The abandoned property is left unattended for more than 48 hours;
or
      (2)   In the judgment of a Police Officer, the abandoned property
constitutes a safety hazard or unreasonably interferes with the use of the real
property by the person in possession.
   (C)   Towing authorized by real property owner, lessee, or property or
security manager.
      (1)   The owner of real property or lessee in lawful possession of the
real property or the property or security manager of the real property may
authorize a towing company to remove abandoned property or property parked in a
restricted or assigned area without authorization by a law enforcement officer
only when the owner, lessee, or property or security manager of the real
property is present. A property or security manager must be a full-time
employee of a business entity. An authorization to tow pursuant to this
division (C) may be made only under any of the following circumstances.
         (a)   Sign. There is displayed, in plain view at all entrances to the
property, a sign not less than 17 by 22 inches in size, with lettering not less
than one inch in height, prohibiting public parking and indicating that
unauthorized abandoned property or property parked in a restricted or assigned
area will be removed at the owner’s expense, disclosing the maximum fee for all
charges related to towing and storage, and containing the telephone number of
the local traffic law enforcement agency where information can be obtained or a
24 hour staffed emergency information telephone number by which the owner of
the abandoned property or property parked in a restricted or assigned area may
call to receive information regarding the location of such owner’s property.
         (b)   Unattended on owner-occupied residential property. The abandoned
property is left unattended on owner-occupied residential property with four
residential units or less and the owner, lessee, or agent of the real property
in lawful possession has notified the city’s Police Department, and ten hours
have elapsed since that notification.
         (c)   Unattended on other private real property. The abandoned
property is left unattended on private real property, and the owner, lessee, or
agent of the real property in lawful possession of real property has notified
the city’s Police Department, and 96 hours have elapsed since that
notification.
      (2)   Pursuant to this section, any owner or lessee in lawful possession
of real property that requests a towing company to tow abandoned property
without authorization from a city police officer shall at that time complete an
abandoned property report, which shall be considered a legal declaration
subject to criminal penalty pursuant to RSMo. § 575.060. The report shall be in
the form designed, printed, and distributed by the state’s Director of Revenue
and shall contain the following:
         (a)   The year, model, make, and abandoned property identification
number of the property, and the owner and any lienholders, if known;
         (b)   A description of any damage to the abandoned property noted by
owner, lessee, or property or security manager in possession of the real
property;
         (c)   The license plate or registration number and the state of
issuance, if available;
         (d)   The physical location of the property and the reason for
requesting the property to be towed;
         (e)   The date the report is completed;
         (f)   The printed name, address, and telephone number of the owner,
lessee, or property or security manager in possession of the real property;
         (g)   The towing company’s name and address;
         (h)   The signature of the towing operator;
         (i)   The signature of the owner, lessee, or property or security
manager attesting to the facts that the property has been abandoned for the
time required by this section and that all statements on the report are true
and correct to the best of the person’s knowledge and belief and that the
person is subject to the penalties for making false statements;
         (j)   Space for the name of the law enforcement agency notified of the
abandoned property and for the signature of the law enforcement official
receiving the report; and
         (k)   Any additional information the state’s Director of Revenue deems
appropriate.
      (3)   Any towing company which tows abandoned property without
authorization from the city’s Police Department pursuant to division (B) above
shall deliver a copy of the abandoned property report to the city’s Police
Department. The copy may be produced and sent by facsimile machine or other
device which produces a near exact likeness of the print and signatures
required, but only if the city’s Police Department has the technological
capability of receiving such copy and has registered the towing company for
such purpose. The report shall be delivered within two hours if the tow was
made from a signed location pursuant to division (C)(1)(a) above, otherwise the
report shall be delivered within 24 hours.
      (4)   The city’s Police Department, after receiving such abandoned
property report, shall record the date on which the abandoned property report
is filed with the Police Department and shall promptly make an inquiry into the
national crime information center (NCIC) and any statewide law enforcement
computer system to determine if the abandoned property has been reported as
stolen. The Police Department shall enter the information pertaining to the
towed property into the statewide law enforcement computer system and a police
officer shall sign the abandoned property report and provide the towing company
with a signed copy.
      (5)   The city’s Police Department, after receiving notification that
abandoned property has been towed by a towing company, shall search the records
of the state’s Department of Revenue and provide the towing company with the
latest owner and lienholder information on the abandoned property. If the
abandoned property is not claimed within ten working days, the towing company
shall send a copy of the abandoned property report signed by a law enforcement
officer to the Department of Revenue.
      (6)   No owner, lessee, or property or security manager of real property
shall knowingly authorize the removal of abandoned property in violation of
this section.
      (7)   Any owner of any private real property causing the removal of
abandoned property from that real property shall state the grounds for the
removal of the abandoned property if requested by the registered owner of that
abandoned property. Any towing company that lawfully removes abandoned property
from private property with the written authorization of the property owner or
the property owner’s agent who is present at the time of removal shall not be
held responsible in any situation relating to the validity of the removal. Any
towing company that removes abandoned property at the direction of the
landowner shall be responsible for:
         (a)   Any damage caused by the towing company to the property in the
transit and subsequent storage of the property; and
         (b)   The removal of property other than the property specified by the
owner of the private real property from which the abandoned property was
removed.
   (D)   Damage to property. The owner of abandoned property removed from
private real property may recover for any damage to the property resulting from
any act of any person causing the removal of, or removing, the abandoned
property.
   (E)   Real property owner liability. Any owner of any private real property
causing the removal of abandoned property parked on that property is liable to
the owner of the abandoned property for double the storage or towing charges
whenever there has been a failure to comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Written authorization required; delegation of authority to tow.
      (1)   Except for the removal of abandoned property authorized by the
city’s Police Department pursuant to this section, a towing company shall not
remove or commence the removal of abandoned property from private real property
without first obtaining written authorization from the real property owner. All
written authorizations shall be maintained for at least one year by the towing
company.
      (2)   General authorization to remove or commence removal of abandoned
property at the towing company’s discretion shall not be delegated to a towing
company or its affiliates except in the case of abandoned property unlawfully
parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or in a fire lane designated by a Fire
Department or the State Fire Marshal.
   (G)   Towing company liability. Any towing company, or any affiliate of a
towing company, which removes, or commences removal of, abandoned property from
private property without first obtaining written authorization from the
property owner or lessee, or any employee or agent thereof, who is present at
the time of removal or commencement of the removal, except as permitted in
division (F) above, is liable to the owner of the property for four times the
amount of the towing and storage charges, in addition to any applicable
ordinance violation penalty, for a violation of this section.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 304.157.1, 304.157.2, 304.157.4 to
304.157.9, 304.158.2 to 304.158.4, 304.158.8, and 304.158.9
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner of abandoned property removed as
provided in this subchapter shall be responsible for payment of all reasonable
charges for towing and storage of such abandoned property as provided in §
91.22.
   (B)   Crime inquiry and inspection report.
      (1)   Upon the towing of any abandoned property pursuant to §
91.19 or under authority of a law enforcement officer or local governmental
agency pursuant to §
91.20, the city’s Police Department, where it authorized such towing or was
properly notified by another governmental agency of such towing, shall promptly
make an inquiry with the national crime information center (NCIC) and any
statewide law enforcement computer system to determine if the abandoned
property has been reported as stolen and shall enter the information pertaining
to the towed property into the statewide law enforcement computer system.
      (2)   If the abandoned property is not claimed within ten working days of
the towing, the city’s Police Department shall submit a crime inquiry and
inspection report to the state’s Director of Revenue. The city’s Police
Department shall also provide one copy of the report to the storage facility
and one copy to the towing company. A towing company in possession of abandoned
property after ten working days shall report such fact to the city’s Police
Department. The crime inquiry and inspection report shall be designed by the
Director of Revenue and shall include the following:
         (a)   The year, model, make, and property identification number of the
property and the owner and any lienholders, if known;
         (b)   A description of any damage to the property noted by the law
enforcement officer authorizing the tow;
         (c)   The license plate or registration number and the state of
issuance, if available;
         (d)   The storage location of the towed property;
         (e)   The name, telephone number, and address of the towing company;
         (f)   The date, place, and reason for the towing of the abandoned
property;
         (g)   The date of the inquiry of the national crime information
center, any statewide law enforcement computer system, and any other similar
system which has titling and registration information to determine if the
abandoned property had been stolen. This information shall be entered only by
the city’s Police Department.
         (h)   The signature and printed name of the law enforcement officer
authorizing the tow and the towing operator; and
         (i)   Any additional information the state’s Director of Revenue deems
appropriate.
   (C)   Reclaiming property. The owner of such abandoned property, or the
holder of a valid security interest of record, may reclaim it from the towing
company upon proof of ownership or valid security interest of record and
payment of all reasonable charges for the towing and storage of the abandoned
property.
   (D)   Lienholder repossession. If a lienholder repossesses any motor
vehicle, trailer, all-terrain vehicle, outboard motor, or vessel without the
knowledge or cooperation of the owner, then the repossessor shall notify the
city’s Police Department within two hours of the repossession and shall further
provide the Police Department with any additional information the Police
Department deems appropriate. The city’s Police Department shall make an
inquiry with the national crime information center and the statewide law
enforcement computer system and shall enter the repossessed vehicle into the
statewide law enforcement computer system.
   (E)   Notice to owner/tow lien claim. Any towing company which comes into
possession of abandoned property pursuant to this subchapter and who claims a
lien for recovering, towing, or storing abandoned property shall give notice to
the title owner and to all persons claiming a lien thereon, as disclosed by the
records of the state’s Department of Revenue or of a corresponding agency in
any other state. The towing company shall notify the owner and any lienholder
within ten business days of the date of mailing indicated on the notice
   (F)   Petition in Circuit Court. The owner of the abandoned property removed
pursuant to this subchapter or any person claiming a lien, other than the
towing company, within ten days after the receipt of notification from the
towing company pursuant to division (E) above, may file a petition in the
Associate Circuit Court in the county where the abandoned property is stored to
determine if the abandoned property was wrongfully taken or withheld from the
owner. The petition shall name the towing company among the defendants. The
petition may also name the agency ordering the tow or the owner, lessee, or
agent of the real property from which the abandoned property was removed. The
state’s Director of Revenue shall not be a party to such petition but a copy of
the petition shall be served on the Director of Revenue.
   (G)   Notice to owner.
      (1)   Notice as to the removal of any abandoned property pursuant to this
subchapter shall be made in writing within five working days to the registered
owner and any lienholder of the fact of the removal, the grounds for the
removal, and the place to which the property has been removed by either:
         (a)   The public agency authorizing the removal; or
         (b)   The towing company, where authorization was made by an owner or
lessee of real property.
      (2)   If the abandoned property is stored in any storage facility, a copy
of the notice shall be given to the operator of the facility. The notice
provided for in this section shall include the amount of mileage if available
shown on the abandoned property at the time of removal.
   (H)   Tow truck requirements. Any towing company which tows abandoned
property for hire shall have the towing company’s name, city, and state clearly
printed in letters at least three inches in height on the sides of the truck,
wrecker, or other vehicle used in the towing.
   (I)   Storage facilities. Persons operating or in charge of any storage
facility where the abandoned property is stored pursuant to this subchapter
shall accept cash for payment of towing and storage by a registered owner or
the owner’s agent claiming the abandoned property.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 304.153.5, 304.153.6, 304.155.11,
304.158.1, 304.158.5, and 304.158.7
§ 91.22 MAXIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   A towing company may only assess reasonable storage charges for
abandoned property towed without the consent of the owner. Reasonable storage
charges shall not exceed the charges for vehicles which have been towed with
the consent of the owner on a negotiated basis. Storage charges may be assessed
only for the time in which the towing company complies with the procedural
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen may from time to time establish maximum
reasonable towing, storage, and other charges which can be imposed by towing
and storage companies operating within the city, and which are consistent with
this subchapter and with RSMo. §§ 304.155 to 304.158. Any violation of said
established maximum charges shall be deemed a violation of this section of the
code and shall be punishable pursuant to §
10.99.
   (C)   A towing company may impose a charge of not more than one-half of the
regular towing charge for the towing of abandoned property at the request of
the owner of private real property or that owner’s agent pursuant to this
subchapter if the owner of the abandoned property or the owner’s agent returns
to the abandoned property before it is removed from the private real property.
The regular towing charge may only be imposed after the abandoned property has
been removed from the property and is in transit.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see RSMo. §§ 304.156.2, 304.158.6, and 304.158.10
§ 91.23 SALE OF ABANDONED PROPERTY BY CITY.
   When the city has physical possession of the abandoned property, it may sell
the abandoned property in accordance with its established provisions and
regulations and may transfer ownership by means of a bill of sale signed by the
City Clerk and sealed with the official city seal. Such bill of sale shall
contain the make and model of the abandoned property, the complete abandoned
property identification number, and the odometer reading of the abandoned
property, if available, and shall be lawful proof of ownership for any dealer
registered under the provisions of RSMo. §§ 301.218 or 301.560, or for any
other person.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
WEEDS, HIGH GRASS, OR OTHER VEGETATION
§ 91.35 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Failure to keep weeds, high grass, and other vegetation cut and
removed. All persons owning or occupying any lot or tract of land in the city
shall keep the weeds, high grass, and other vegetation growing on such property
cut and removed. Whenever such weeds, high grass, or other vegetation shall
attain the height of 12 inches, it shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   (B)   Unlawful to maintain such nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any
person to create or maintain a nuisance as defined in division (A) above.
   (C)   Liability. Whenever weeds, high grass, or other vegetation, downed
trees or limbs in violation of division (A) above, are allowed to grow on any
part of any lot or ground within the city, the owner of the ground, or in case
of joint tenancy, tenancy by entireties or tenancy in common, each owner
thereof, shall be liable.
   (D)   Notice. The Chief of Police shall give a hearing after ten days’
notice thereof, either personally or by United States mail to the owner or
owners, or his, her, or their agents, or by posting such notice on the
premises; thereupon, the Chief of Police may declare the weeds, high grass, or
other vegetation to be a nuisance and order the same to be abated within five
days.
   (E)   Disposition. In case the weeds, high grass, or other vegetation are
not cut down and removed within the five days, the Chief of Police shall have
the weeds, high grass, or other vegetation cut down and removed, and shall
certify the costs of same to the City Clerk at the cost to the owner of $50 per
hour to remove weeds, high grass, or other vegetation, including down trees or
limbs.
   (F)   Tax bill. The City Clerk shall cause a special tax bill therefor
against the property to be prepared and to be collected by the Collector, with
other taxes assessed against the property; and the tax bill from the date of
its issuance shall be a first lien on the property until paid and shall be
prima facie evidence of the recitals therein and of its validity, and no mere
clerical error or informality in the same, or in the proceedings leading up to
the issuance, shall be a defense thereto. Each special tax bill shall be issued
by the City Clerk and delivered to the Collector on or before June 1 of each
year. Such tax bills if not paid when due shall bear interest at the rate of 8%
per annum.
   (G)   Penalty: $50 per hour to cut or remove weeds, high grass, or other
vegetation.
(Prior Code, § 215.040) (Ord. 487, passed 6-4-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36 WEEDS AND DEBRIS AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Debris defined. Any condition on any lot or land that has the presence
of debris of any kind which may endanger the public safety or any material
which is unhealthy or unsafe is hereby declared to be a public nuisance,
subject to abatement. Debris shall include, but is not necessarily limited to,
weed cuttings, cut and fallen trees and shrubs, overgrown vegetation, noxious
weeds which are seven inches or more in height, rubbish and trash, lumber not
piled or stacked 12 inches off the ground, rocks or bricks, tin, steel, parts
of derelict cars or trucks, broken furniture, and/or any flammable material.
   (B)   Notice. Enforcement of this section shall be the responsibility of the
Chief of Police. After inspection of property by the Chief of Police, if the
Chief of Police believes the property to be in violation, he or she shall
provide notice to the owner of the property by personal service or by certified
mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall state:
      (1)   Within seven days of receipt of the notice (which shall be the date
of delivery as to personal service, the date of receipt of certified mail which
is not refused, or five days after the date of mailing as to certified mail,
return receipt requested, which was refused by the owner), the property owner
must begin and continue without unnecessary delay the abatement or removal of
the nuisance condition;
      (2)   The nature of the nuisance;
      (3)   The notice shall indicate that a hearing may be requested before
the Chief of Police or Mayor depending upon availability. It is the
responsibility of the owner to schedule the hearing and the hearing must be
conducted within seven days of receipt of the notice unless none of the two
specified hearing officers are available and under such circumstance, the
hearing shall be scheduled with the hearing officer with the quickest
availability to conduct the hearing; and
      (4)   The notice shall indicate that in the event the owner does not
request a hearing as provided for herein or begin abatement of the nuisance
within seven days of receipt of the notice and continue the abatement without
unnecessary delay, that the Chief of Police or other designated officer may
cause a condition which constitutes the nuisance to be removed and the cost of
such removal shall be certified to the City Clerk, who shall cause the
certified costs to be included in a special tax bill or added to the annual
real estate tax bill, at the collecting official’s option, for the property and
the certified costs shall be collected by the City Collector or other official
collecting taxes in the same manner and procedure for collecting real estate
taxes. If the certified costs are not paid, the tax bill shall be considered
delinquent and the collection of the delinquent bill shall be governed by the
laws governing delinquent and back taxes. The tax bill from the date of its
issuance shall be deemed a personal debt against the owner and shall also be a
lien on the property until paid.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance by city. If no hearing is requested by the
property owner as provided in this section, or hearing is conducted and the
hearing officer finds that a public nuisance under this section does exist and
should be abated, or the owner fails to begin within seven days of receipt of
notice and continue without unnecessary delay to abate or remove the nuisance,
the Chief of Police shall cause the condition which constitutes the nuisance to
be removed. If the Chief of Police causes such condition to be removed or
abated, the costs of such removal shall be certified to the City Clerk who
shall cause the certified costs to be included in a special tax bill or added
to the annual real estate tax bill for the property, at the collecting
official’s option. The certified costs shall be collected by the City Collector
or other official collecting taxes in the same manner and procedure for
collecting real estate taxes. If the certified costs are not paid, the tax bill
shall be considered delinquent and the collection of delinquent bill shall be
governed by the laws governing delinquent and back taxes. The tax bill from the
date of issuance shall be deemed a personal debt against the owner and shall
also be lien on the property until paid.
   (D)   Violation is an offense. An owner who fails to begin removal of a
nuisance within seven days of notice or fails to continue the removal without
unnecessary delay as provided for in this section shall be guilty of an offense
and may be charged in Municipal Court with the offense of failure to abate a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 215.045) (Ord. 318, passed 9-6-2003)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    Any person who fails to comply with the requirements of §
91.18 is guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50.
(Ord. 304, passed 8-1-2000)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Opening and closing hours of parks
§ 92.01 OPENING AND CLOSING HOURS OF PARKS.
   No person shall occupy or use any park or recreational area of the city, or
any of the facilities thereof, or cause his or her motor vehicle to be stopped
and parked in any of the area thereof, between the hours of 12:00 a.m.
(midnight) to 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 393, passed 9-2-2009)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Unlawful housing practices
   
93.02   Discrimination in commercial real estate loans
   
93.03   Discrimination in selling or renting by real estate agencies prohibited
   
93.04   Discrimination in public accommodations prohibited, exceptions
   
93.05   Additional unlawful discriminatory practices
   
93.06   Exemptions
§ 93.01 UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful housing practice:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, to deny or otherwise make
unavailable, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, national
origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status;
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex,
handicap, or familial status, or an intention to make any such preference,
limitation, or discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status that any dwelling
is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact
so available;
      (5)   To induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any
dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into the
neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that buyer or renter.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
   (B)   For purposes of §§
93.01 to
93.03, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter’s agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the
condition that existed before the modification, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to afford
such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; and
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, a failure to design
and construct those dwellings in such a manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation
of grab bars; and
            4.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (C)   As used in division (B)(3) above, the term COVERED MULTI-FAMILY
DWELLING means:
      (1)   Buildings consisting of four or more units if such buildings have
one or more elevators; and
      (2)   Ground floor units in other buildings consisting of four or more
units.
   (D)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the American National
Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically handicapped people, commonly cited as “ANSI A117.I”, suffices to
satisfy the requirements of division (B)(3)(a) above.
(Prior Code, § 220.010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 DISCRIMINATION IN COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to
deny a loan or other financial assistance because of race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status to a person
applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, construction, improving,
repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to discriminate against him or her in
fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration, or other terms or conditions of
such loan or other financial assistance, because of the race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status of such person or
of any person associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance, or of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants, or occupants, of the dwellings in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Prior Code, § 220.020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 DISCRIMINATION IN SELLING OR RENTING BY REAL ESTATE AGENCIES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, on account of race, color, religion,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Prior Code, § 220.030) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 DISCRIMINATION IN PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PROHIBITED, EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All persons within the city are free and equal and shall be entitled
to the full and equal use and enjoyment within this state of any place of
public accommodation, as hereinafter defined, without discrimination or
segregation on the grounds of race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
ancestry, or handicap.
   (B)   It is an unlawful discriminatory practice for any person, directly or
indirectly, to refuse, withhold from, or deny any other person, or to attempt
to refuse, withhold from, or deny any other person, any of the accommodations,
advantages, facilities, services, or privileges made available in any place of
public accommodation, as defined in state statutes, or to segregate or
discriminate against any such person in the use thereof on the grounds of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, ancestry, or handicap.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a private club, a
place of accommodation owned by or operated on behalf of a religious
corporation, association, or society, or other establishment which is not in
fact open to the public, unless the facilities of such establishments are made
available to the customers or patrons of a place of public accommodation as
defined in state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 220.040) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 ADDITIONAL UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:
   (A)   To aid, abet, incite, compel, or coerce the commission of acts
prohibited under this chapter or to attempt to do so;
   (B)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against any other person
because such person has opposed any practice prohibited by this chapter or
because such person has filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated
in any manner in any investigation, proceeding, or hearing conducted pursuant
to this chapter;
   (C)   For the city to discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion,
national origin, sex, ancestry, or age, as it relates to employment, handicap,
or familial status as it relates to housing; or
   (D)   To discriminate in any manner against any other person because of such
person’s association with any person protected by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 220.050) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to:
      (1)   Require the Commission to review or approve the plans, designs, or
construction of all covered dwellings, to determine whether the design and
construction of such dwellings are consistent with the requirements of §
93.01(B)(3); and
      (2)   To invalidate or limit any law of the state or of the city that
requires dwellings to be designed and constructed in a manner that affords
handicapped persons greater access than is required by this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in §§
93.01 to
93.03:
      (1)   Requires that a dwelling be made available to an individual whose
tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the
property of others;
      (2)   Limits the applicability of any reasonable local restriction
regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling, nor
does any provision of said sections regarding familial status apply with
respect to housing for older persons; or
      (3)   Shall prohibit conduct against a person because such person has
been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal
manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance, as defined by RSMo. §
195.010.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter, other than the prohibitions against
discriminatory advertising in §
93.01(A)(3), shall apply to:
      (1)   The sale or rental of any single-family house by a private
individual owner, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The private individual owner does not own or have any interest
in more than three single-family houses at any one time; and
         (b)   The house is sold or rented without the use of a real estate
broker, agent or salesperson, or the facilities of any person in the business
of selling or renting dwellings and without publication, posting, or mailing of
any advertisement. If the owner selling the house does not reside in it at the
time of the sale or was not the most recent resident of the house prior to such
sale, the exemption in this section applies to only one such sale in any 24-
month period.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
(Prior Code, § 220.060)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REGULATIONS; LICENSES
      
111.   BUSINESS SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
      
112.   CIGARETTE TAX
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL REGULATIONS; LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Prerequisite to issuance of license or permit
   
110.04   License application and issuance
   
110.05   Duty of collector
   
110.06   License fees
   
110.07   License not transferable
   
110.08   Term of license
   
110.09   Renewal applications
   
110.10   Display of license
   
110.11   Excepted businesses and occupations
   
110.12   Revocation of license; grounds
   
110.13   Revocation of license; procedure
   
110.14   Existing licenses not affected
   
110.15   Regulation of merchant or peddler license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, finance, and purchasing, see
Ch. 36
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS. Those places where motor vehicle fuels and auto
parts are sold at retail.
   BANK and BANKER. Every person, firm, or corporation having a place of
business where credits are opened in favor of anyone on time or current
deposits, or on collection of money or currency subject to be paid or remitted
on drafts, checks, or order, or where money or currency is advanced or loaned
on stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, or promissory notes, or where
stocks, bonds, bullions, bills of exchange, or promissory notes are received
for discount or sale.
   BROKER. Every person, firm, or corporation, other than a bank or banker, who
for commission or premium, effects or negotiates for the purpose of sale of any
kind of stocks, bonds, bullion, bills of exchange, promissory notes, checks,
drafts, coin money, or other money or currency or other securities for
themselves or others.
   BUTCHER. Any person who sells fresh meat of cattle, hogs, or sheep in any
quantity less than one-quarter of an animal, in any store, stand, or place kept
for that purpose.
   GASOLINE AND OIL PRODUCTS WHOLESALER. Every person, firm, or corporation
engaged in the business of selling gasoline and oil products to a dealer for
resale at retail.
   MERCHANT. Any person, firm, company, or corporation who shall deal in the
selling of goods, wares, and merchandise at any stand, store, or place occupied
for that purpose, including all dealers in drugs and medicines, lumber,
jewelry, furniture, clothing, furnishing goods, millinery goods, hardware,
books, musical and other instruments, fruits, vegetables and groceries,
confections, tobacco and cigars, produce, and all other articles of
merchandise, the taxation of which is not otherwise provided for in this
chapter.
   PAWNBROKER. Every person who loans money on a deposit of personal property
as security or who deals in the purchase of personal property on condition of
selling the same back at a stipulated price or who publicly exhibits a sign
“money to loan”.
   PEDDLER. Any person who shall deal in the selling of goods, wares, and
merchandise of any kind or nature except books, magazines, and publications, by
going from door to door of residence and places of business to sell the same.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A house where persons are furnished for gain or profit,
lodging or board or both by the day, week, or month.
   TRAILER COURT. A place where space and accommodation for motor vehicle house
trailers is rented or available for rent.
(Prior Code, § 605.005) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All of the various occupations, professions, avocations, trades, and
businesses herein specified, followed, practiced, or engaged in within the city
shall be licensed, taxed, and regulated as herein specifically provided and no
person, firm, or corporation, either as principal or agent, shall conduct,
pursue, carry on, or operate within the city, any occupation, profession,
avocation, trade, or business herein specified without paying in advance the
license tax hereinafter prescribed and levied.
(Prior Code, § 605.010) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   No license or permit authorized or required under any ordinance of the
city shall hereafter be issued by the city, or any official thereof, to any
person, firm, association, or corporation until all city personal taxes and
merchant’s taxes of the applicant for such license or permit, which are past
due and in default, have been paid; provided however, this section shall not
apply to such taxes as shall, as of the date of application for such license or
permit, have been barred by the statute of limitation.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Collector, the City Clerk, and such
other officers of the city as are authorized to issue licenses or permits, to
establish and promulgate rules and regulations relative to an orderly method of
checking unpaid personal taxes and merchant’s taxes in order to determine the
amounts thereof due and owing to the city, by any such applicant. All officers
and departments of the city shall assist and cooperate with the City Collector,
City Clerk, and such other officers in carrying out the intent of this section.
   (C)   Driver’s licenses, dog licenses, and bicycle licenses, if any now or
hereafter required by ordinance, are hereby expressly excepted from the
provisions of this section and as to such driver’s licenses, dog licenses, and
bicycle licenses, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 605.015) (Ord. 127, passed 8-5-1968)
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   All applications for the licenses required herein shall be made to the City
Clerk on appropriate forms provided for that purpose by the city. All licenses
issued by the City Clerk shall be in such form as is provided by the Board of
Aldermen; provided however, that such license shall bear the signature of the
Mayor of the Board of Aldermen and the City Clerk; the date of issuance thereof
and the date of expiration, as well as any additional information that may be
required by the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, § 605.020)
§ 110.05 DUTY OF COLLECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Collector to collect all the money for
licenses issued under this chapter and to keep a complete and accurate account
and list of all such licenses issued by him or her so that at any time such
list of accounts shall clearly show what licenses have been issued, the purpose
for which issued, the occupation, profession, avocation, trade, or business for
which issued, the period of time for which issued, and the amount paid.
(Prior Code, § 605.025) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981)
§ 110.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby levied on every merchant or manufacturer, or other
person engaged in any business or occupation, wholly or partially within the
city and enumerated in RSMo. § 94.270, a license fee in the amount of $25 per
annum or as set forth in divisions (B) through (E) hereof if applicable, except
that:
      (1)   No person following for a livelihood the profession or calling of
minister of the gospel, teacher, professor in a college, priest, lawyer,
certified public accountant, dentist, chiropractor, optometrist, chiropodist,
physician or surgeon, veterinarian, architect, professional engineer, or land
surveyor in this state shall be taxed or made liable to pay such license tax;
      (2)   No person following for a livelihood the profession of auctioneer
or real estate broker or salesman shall be taxed or made liable to pay such
license tax for the privilege of following or carrying on his or her profession
in the city unless that person maintains a business office within the city;
      (3)   No farmer or producer or any person in the employ of such farmer or
producer in the city shall be liable for any license fee or lax for the
privilege of selling from his or her wagon, cart, or vehicle any produce raised
by such farmer or producer; and
      (4)   No savings and loan association shall be subject to the license
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of
operating a hotel or motel shall pay a license tax of $25 per annum and, if a
coffee shop, café, or restaurant is operated in connection with such hotel or
motel, the additional tax provided in division (A) above shall also be paid.
   (C)   Every person engaged as a peddler shall pay a license tax of $30 per
day for each and every day such person so operates in the city.
   (D)   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of
operating a billiard parlor or pool hall shall pay a license tax of $10 per
annum for each billiard, pool, or snooker table usable and on the premises of
such business.
   (E)   Every person, firm, or corporation who shall, directly or indirectly,
place for operation in any public or private place in the city, for amusement
purposes for profit or monetary gain, any music box or music machine, any
marble game or machine, pinball game or table, or machine or any other similar
type of machine or game into which can be placed any piece of money, coin,
token, slug, or instrumentality of any kind for the purpose of operating or
playing the same shall pay a license tax for each machine or table the sum of
$10 per annum. The tax hereby levied is declared to be an occupational tax for
the privilege of engaging in the business of operating such instrumentalities
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 605.030) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981; Ord. 130B, 11-5-1996; Ord.
330, passed 4-3-2004)
§ 110.07 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   No license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
assignable or transferable, but shall apply only to the person to whom same is
issued. No refund shall be made on any license issued on account of the person,
firm, or corporation to whom such license is issued, discontinuing or retiring
from the business, calling, or occupation for which such license is issued.
   (B)   In the event any licensee, as provided for herein, shall move his or
her place of business from one location to another location within the city,
said licensee shall submit a statement of the fact of such change to the City
Clerk, who may transfer such license as to location only. In no event, however,
shall such license be transferred from one person to another or from the kind
of business or occupation originally licensed to another type of business or
occupation.
(Prior Code, § 605.040) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of the licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter
shall be from January 1 of one year to December 31 of the succeeding year. In
the event any licensee hereunder shall commence business on or after July 1,
the City Clerk shall issue such license at the rate of one-half of the license
fee for such six-month period of July 1 to December 31 or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 605.050)
§ 110.09 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for renewal of a license provided for herein shall be filed
no later than June 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 605-060)
§ 110.10 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued by the city under the provisions of this chapter shall
be carefully preserved and shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the
place of business authorized to be conducted by said license. If there is no
place of business, said license shall be carried on the licensee’s person.
(Prior Code, § 605.070)
§ 110.11 EXCEPTED BUSINESSES AND OCCUPATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall under no circumstances be construed to
require a license or a license fee for any business, occupation, pursuit, or
profession for which the city may be prohibited by law from licensing or
requiring a fee for said license.
(Prior Code, § 605.080)
§ 110.12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS.
   (A)   Any license issued by the city pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter may be revoked by the Board of Aldermen for any of the following
reasons, as well as for any other reasons specified in this chapter:
      (1)   Any failure to comply with, or any violation of any provisions of
this chapter, or any other ordinance of the city regulating the business,
occupation, or activity licensed, or the statutes of the state by any licensee;
      (2)   Violation of the terms and conditions upon which the license was
issued;
      (3)   Failure of the licensee to pay any tax or obligation due to the
city;
      (4)   Any misrepresentation or false statement in the application for a
license required herein; and/or
      (5)   Failure to display the license required herein.
   (B)   Revocation of any license shall be in addition to any other penalty or
penalties which may be imposed pursuant to these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 605.090)
§ 110.13 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; PROCEDURE.
   In any case in which a complaint has been made to the Board of Aldermen, or
in which the Board of Aldermen have on its own determined that cause may exist
for the revocation of a license under the provisions of this chapter, the
following procedures shall be followed.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen shall set a date for a hearing to consider the
question of revocation.
   (B)   At least ten days prior to said hearing, written notice shall be
mailed to the licensee, by registered mail, return receipt requested, to his or
her last known address as shown in the records of the City Clerk, advising the
licensee of the time, date, and place of hearing and of the reason for
considering the revocation of his or her license.
   (C)   During the pendency of this hearing before the Board of Aldermen, the
licensee shall be permitted to continue the operation of his or her business.
   (D)   At the hearing set by the Board of Aldermen, the Board of Aldermen
shall hear all relevant and material evidence justifying the retention of the
license.
   (E)   The licensee may be present in person and/or by his or her attorney
and may present evidence.
   (F)   After hearing the evidence presented, the Board of Aldermen shall vote
on the issue of whether the subject license shall be revoked.
   (G)   The affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Aldermen shall be
necessary to revoke any license.
(Prior Code, § 605.100)
§ 110.14 EXISTING LICENSES NOT AFFECTED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be so construed as to affect any right or
privilege accruing under any license heretofore issued by any ordinance of this
city.
(Prior Code, § 605.120) (Ord. 130B, passed 8-4-1981)
§ 110.15 REGULATION OF MERCHANT OR PEDDLER LICENSE.
   There shall be no merchant or peddler’s license issued during the week event
of the Otterville Street Fair.
(Prior Code, § 605.130) (Ord. 130B, passed 11-5-1996)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation or co-partnership who shall violate any
provision of this chapter, or who shall exercise or attempt to exercise any of
the occupations, trades, or avocations, or who shall carry on, or engage in, or
attempt to carry on or engage in any of the businesses for which a license is
required in this chapter in the city, without first paying the tax herein
levied, and obtaining a license therefor, shall, upon conviction, be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25,
nor more than $500. In addition to the above penalties, any person, firm, or
corporation, or co-partnership, who is required to take out a license, or any
such person whose license has expired, and notice has been given by the City
Clerk, shall, if not paid within 30 days after such tax is due pursuant to said
notice, pay a penalty of $12.50, and for every 30 days thereafter, $12.50 shall
be added as a penalty, until the party required to take out such license shall
have complied with the provisions regulating licenses in this chapter. This
penalty shall be collected with the license by the City Clerk and paid to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 605.110)
CHAPTER 111: BUSINESS SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Electric Service
   
111.01   Occupational tax
   
111.02   Tax in lieu of other occupation or franchise tax
   
111.03   No automatic adjustments or rollbacks of business license tax on gross
receipts
Telecommunication Companies
   
111.15   Telecommunication companies business license tax
Marijuana Businesses
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   Business license; no additional licenses
   
111.27   Marijuana dispensaries
   
111.28   Offsite storage facilities
   
111.29   Marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility
   
111.30   Marijuana cultivation and testing facilities
   
111.31   Disposal of marijuana
   
111.32   Edible marijuana; labeling requirements
   
111.33   Marijuana odors and smoke declared to be a nuisance
   
111.34   Residential cultivation
   
111.35   Residential consumption
   
111.36   Possession or consumption prohibited
   
111.37   Public consumption
ELECTRIC SERVICE
§ 111.01 OCCUPATIONAL TAX.
   Every person, firm, or corporation engaged in the business of manufacturing,
transmitting, distributing and selling electricity for lighting, heating, and
power and for any and all other purposes, shall pay to the city as a license or
occupational tax 5% of the gross revenue derived from the sale and distribution
of such electrical energy to residential and commercial customers within the
city limits, which sum shall be paid by such concerns to the city semiannually.
(Prior Code, § 610.010) (Ord. 190, passed 12-6-1977)
§ 111.02 TAX IN LIEU OF OTHER OCCUPATION OR FRANCHISE TAX.
   The tax required to be paid by this chapter shall be in lieu of any other
occupation or franchise tax required of any person, firm, or corporation
engaged in the business described in §
111.01 and nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to exempt any such
person, firm, or corporation from the payment to the city of the tax which the
city may levy upon the real or personal property belonging to such person,
firm, or corporation, nor to tax required of merchants or manufacturers for the
sale of anything other than electric service, nor shall the tax herein required
exempt any such person, firm, or corporation from the payment of any other tax
which may be lawfully required other than an occupational or franchise tax on
the business described in §
111.01.
(Prior Code, § 610.020) (Ord.190, passed 12-6-1977)
§ 111.03 NO AUTOMATIC ADJUSTMENTS OR ROLLBACKS OF BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON GROSS
RECEIPTS.
   Pursuant to RSMo. § 393.275, and any and all applicable authority, the city
shall maintain its current rate of its business license tax on the gross
receipts of electric utilities without reduction, notwithstanding any periodic
fluctuations in the tariffs of such utility, corporations or any notice
thereof, including, but not limited to, notice sent under RSMo. § 393.275
(Ord. 408, passed 9-14-2011)
TELECOMMUNICATION COMPANIES
§ 111.15 TELECOMMUNICATION COMPANIES BUSINESS LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   The Board of Aldermen adopt, pursuant to the Municipal
Telecommunications Business License Simplification Act (hereinafter referred to
as “HB209”), and more particularly in requirement of RSMo. § 92.086, paragraph
6, 0.6% of gross receipts as it’s effective tax rate, from and after July 1,
2006 for the tax imposed on telecommunications companies doing business in the
city, for the retail sale of telecommunication services which are subject to
taxation under RSMo. §§ 144.010 and 144.020 unless HB209 is declared to be
invalid by the State Supreme Court or other court of competent jurisdiction, or
HB209 is amended to change the rate the city is to use, or the state’s
Department of Revenue informs the city that a different tax rate should be
used. In the event a different tax may be used under state law, whether
determined by the state’s Department of Revenue or as a result of an amendment
to HB209 or such legislation being declared invalid, than that adopted herein,
such different tax rates shall be utilized in collection of said tax from and
after July 1, 2006, or other date if applicable.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding now pending in any court or any rights acquired or liability
incurred, nor any cause or causes of action occurred or existing under any act
or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired, or effected by this section.
   (C)   The Board of Aldermen hereby authorizes the Mayor and the City
Attorney to take all steps deemed necessary in their respective opinions and
discretion to protect the interest of the city with respect to this section,
HB209, and Ordinance 283 of the city and the validity of any action of this
Board pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 360, passed 5-6-2006)
MARIJUANA BUSINESS
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not specifically defined in this subchapter shall have the definition set forth
in Article XIV of the Constitution if any.
   ADMINISTER. The direct application of marijuana to a qualifying patient or
by way of any of the following methods:
      (1)   Ingestion of capsules, teas, oils, and other marijuana-infused
products;
      (2)   Vaporization or smoking of dried flowers, buds, plant material,
extracts, or oils;
      (3)   Application of ointments or balms;
      (4)   Transdermal patches and suppositories;
      (5)   Consuming marijuana-infused food products.
   CHURCH. A permanent building primarily and regularly used as a place of
religious worship.
   COMPREHENSIVE FACILITY. A comprehensive marijuana cultivation facility, a
comprehensive marijuana dispensary facility, or a comprehensive marijuana-
infused products manufacturing facility.
   COMPREHENSIVE MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. A facility licensed by the
department to acquire, cultivate, process, package, store on-site or off-site,
transport to or from, and sell marijuana, marijuana seeds, marijuana vegetative
cuttings (also known as clones) to a medical facility, comprehensive facility,
or marijuana testing facility. A comprehensive marijuana cultivation facility
need not segregate or account for its marijuana products as either non-medical
marijuana or medical marijuana. A comprehensive marijuana cultivation
facility's authority to process marijuana shall include the creation of
prerolls, but shall not include the manufacture of marijuana-infused products.
   COMPREHENSIVE MARIJUANA DISPENSARY FACILITY. A facility licensed by the
department to acquire, process, package, store on-site or off-site, sell,
transport to or from, and deliver marijuana, marijuana seeds, marijuana
vegetative cuttings (also known as clones), marijuana-infused products, and
drug paraphernalia used to administer marijuana as provided for in this
subchapter to a qualifying patient or primary caregiver, as those terms are
defined in this section, or to a consumer, anywhere on the licensed property or
to any address as directed by the patient, primary caregiver, or consumer and
consistent with the limitations of this subchapter and as otherwise allowed by
law, to a comprehensive facility, a marijuana testing facility, or a medical
facility. Comprehensive dispensary facilities may receive transaction orders at
the dispensary directly from the consumer in person, by phone, or via the
internet including from a third party. A comprehensive marijuana dispensary
facility need not segregate or account for its marijuana products as either
non-medical marijuana or medical marijuana, but shall collect all appropriate
tangible personal property sales tax for each sale, as set forth in this
subchapter and provided for by general or local law. A comprehensive marijuana
dispensary facility's authority to process marijuana shall include the creation
of prerolls.
   COMPREHENSIVE MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FACILITY. A facility
licensed by the department to acquire, process, package, store, manufacture,
transport to or from a medical facility, comprehensive facility, or marijuana
testing facility, and sell marijuana-infused products, prerolls, and infused
prerolls to a marijuana dispensary facility, a marijuana testing facility, or
another marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility. A comprehensive
marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility need not segregate or account
for its marijuana products as either non- medical marijuana or medical
marijuana.
   CONSTITUTION. The Constitution of the State of Missouri.
   CONSUMER. A person who is at least 21 years of age.
   CONSUMPTION. To smoke or ingest marijuana by any means.
   DAYCARE. A child-care facility, as defined by RSMo. § 215.201 or successor
provisions, that is licensed by the State of Missouri.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Health and Senior Services or its successor
agency.
   DIRECTLY.  The shortest possible legally walkable practicable route from the
marijuana facility to the permitted destination or destinations, without any
voluntary detours or additional stops.
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY.
      (1)   An indoor stationary closet, room, garage, greenhouse, or other
comparable fully enclosed space equipped with locks or other functioning
security devices that permit access only to the qualifying patient(s) or
primary caregiver(s) who have informed the department that this is the space
where they will cultivate marijuana; or
      (2)   An outdoor stationary structure:
         (a)   That is enclosed on all sides, except at the base, by chain-link
fencing, wooden slats, or a similar material that is anchored, attached, or
affixed to the ground and that cannot be accessed from the top;
         (b)   In which the plants are not visible to the unaided eye from an
adjacent property when viewed by an individual at ground level or from a
permanent structure at any level; and
      (3)   That is equipped with locks or other security devices that restrict
access to only the qualifying patient(s) or primary caregiver(s) who have
informed the department that this is the space where they will cultivate
marijuana.
   FINE. A monetary fine imposed by the municipal court for this city.
   MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA. Cannabis indica, Cannabis sativa, and Cannabis
ruderalis, hybrids of such species, and any other strains commonly understood
within the scientific community to constitute marijuana, as well as the resin
extracted from the plant and marijuana-infused products. MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA
does not include industrial hemp containing a crop-wide average
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that does not exceed three-tenths of one
percent on a dry weight basis, or commodities or products manufactured from
industrial hemp.
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, product, material, or a combination of
equipment. products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing marijuana into the human body.
   MARIJUANA BUSINESS. Any facility licensed by the Department of Health and
Senior Services under the authority granted by Article XIV of the Constitution.
   MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. Either a medical marijuana dispensary or a
comprehensive marijuana dispensary or a micro-business as those terms are
defined in Art. XIV of the Constitution.
   MARIJUANA FACILITY. A medical marijuana facility or a comprehensive facility
as that term is defined by Art. XIV, Section 2 of the Constitution.
   MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS. Products that are infused with marijuana or an
extract thereof and are intended for use or consumption other than by smoking,
including, but not limited to, edible products, ointments, tinctures and
concentrates.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY. A facility licensed by the
Department, to acquire, cultivate, process, store, transport, and sell
marijuana to a medical marijuana dispensary facility, medical marijuana testing
facility, or to a medical marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility and
shall also mean a comprehensive marijuana cultivation facility, as that term is
defined in Article XIV of the Constitution.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY FACILITY or DISPENSARY. A facility licensed by
the Department to acquire, store, sell, transport, and deliver marijuana,
marijuana-infused products, and drug paraphernalia used to administer marijuana
as provided for in this section to a qualifying patient, a primary caregiver,
another medical marijuana dispensary facility, a medical marijuana testing
facility, or a medical marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FACILITY. A facility
licensed by the Department, to acquire, store, manufacture, transport, and sell
marijuana-infused products to a medical marijuana dispensary facility, a
medical marijuana testing facility, or another medical marijuana-infused
products manufacturing facility.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. A person designated as such by the Department.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any property owned or controlled by the city or the state, any
public or private road, and any space in a building open to the public,
provided however that the owner of a building may allow smoking in such a
public space provided that all entrances to the public space are clearly and
conspicuously identified with a sign identifying that public smoking of
marijuana is allowed in the space.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT. A person designated as such by the Department.
   THEN EXISTING. Any school, child day-care center, or church with a written
building permit from the city to be constructed, or under construction, or
completed and in use at the time a business regulated under this subchapter
first applies for either zoning or a building permit, whichever comes first.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.26 BUSINESS LICENSE; NO ADDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Marijuana businesses shall be required to have a city business license as
required by RSMo. Ch. 605 but shall not be required to have any other city-
issued license.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.27 MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   Marijuana dispensaries shall not be open to the public or make any
sales between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   No marijuana, of any type, may be consumed on the premises of a
marijuana dispensary, nor shall the licensee permit such consumption.
   (C)   Any medical marijuana dispensary shall require any customer to display
the customer's permit card from the Department of Health and Senior Services or
other proof of eligibility at the time of each purchase.
   (D)   No person under the age of 21 who is not a qualifying patient shall be
allowed into a comprehensive marijuana dispensary facility. No person under the
age of 21 shall be allowed into any micro-business dispensaries. No person
under the age of 18 years old shall be allowed into a medical marijuana
dispensary. The foregoing notwithstanding, a qualifying patient who is too
young to enter a medical marijuana dispensary, a comprehensive marijuana
dispensary, or a micro-business, may do so if such qualifying patient is
accompanied by a parent or guardian or if such qualifying patient has been
emancipated and shows proof of emancipation.
   (E)   A marijuana dispensary shall have displayed its state-issued license
and the city issued license pursuant to this section visible to the public at
all times.
   (F)   Each marijuana dispensary shall be operated from a permanent and fixed
location. No marijuana dispensary shall be permitted to operate from a
moveable, mobile, or transitory location. This section shall not prevent the
physical delivery of marijuana to a customer, patient, or the patient's primary
caregiver at a location off of the premises of the permittee's marijuana
dispensary, to the extent so allowed by law, if:
      (1)   The marijuana was lawfully purchased;
      (2)   The marijuana is delivered only by the permittee or an employee of
the permittee;
      (3)   The marijuana is delivered only by the use of a motor vehicle,
bicycle, or other lawful means of transportation; marijuana may not be
delivered by drone or any remotely operated vehicle, or by any self-navigating
vehicle unless a human occupies such self-navigating vehicle.
   (G)   Marijuana accessories (formerly called paraphernalia) designed or
intended for use in consuming marijuana may be sold at a marijuana dispensary.
   (H)   A marijuana dispensary shall provide adequate security on the premises
of the marijuana dispensary including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Security surveillance cameras installed to monitor the main
entrance along with the interior and exterior of the premises to discourage and
facilitate the reporting of criminal acts and nuisance activities occurring at
the premises, and security video shall be preserved for at least 72 hours by
the permittee;
      (2)   Alarm systems that are professionally monitored and maintained in
good working conditions;
      (3)   A locking safe permanently affixed to the premises, or a locked
secure storage room, that is suitable for storage of all of the saleable
inventory of marijuana if marijuana is to be stored overnight on the premises;
and
      (4)   Exterior lighting that illuminates the exterior walls of the
business and is compliant with the City Code.
   (I)   Location.
      (1)   A dispensary may not be located within 1,000 legally walkable feet
of a then- existing elementary or secondary school, state-licensed child day-
care center, or church (see RSMo. § 650.010 B(27) for the definition of 'then
existing').
      (2)   In the case of a freestanding facility, the distance between the
facility and the school, daycare, or church shall be measured from the external
wall of the facility structure closest in proximity to the school, daycare, or
church to the closest point of the property line of the school, daycare, or
church. If the school, daycare, or church is part of a larger structure, such
as an office building or strip mall, the distance shall be measured to the
entrance or exit of the school, daycare, or church closest in proximity to the
facility. In the case of a facility that is part of a larger structure, such as
an office building or strip mall, the distance between the facility and the
school, daycare, or church shall be measured from the property line of the
school, daycare, or church to the facility's entrance or exit closest in
proximity to the school, daycare, or church. If the school, daycare, or church
is part of a larger structure, such as an office building or strip mall, the
distance shall be measured to the entrance or exit of the school, daycare, or
church closest in proximity to the facility. Measurements shall be made along
the shortest path between the demarcation points that can be lawfully traveled
by foot.
      (3)   The Board of Aldermen may reduce this distance by resolution if an
applicant shows good cause for the same. The determination of what constitutes
good cause shall be at the sole discretion of the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.28 OFFSITE STORAGE FACILITIES.
   Marijuana dispensaries may operate an offsite storage facility for the
storage of products and inventory. A single offsite storage facility may only
be used by a single entity licensed as a marijuana dispensary. An offsite
storage facility shall not be open to the public. An offsite storage facility
shall comply with the same requirements of a dispensary in regard to location,
security, and odor control.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.29 MARIJUANA-INFUSED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FACILITY.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued or renewed for a marijuana-infused products
manufacturing facility that does not meet the standards of this section.
   (B)   Distance requirement. No marijuana-infused products manufacturing
facility using any combustible gases or CO2 in the extraction process shall be
located within 1,000 legally walkable feet of a then-existing elementary or
secondary school, licensed child daycare center, or church. Any other
marijuana-infused products manufacturing facility may be located in any
location where a medical marijuana dispensary may be located as detailed above.
Measurements shall be in a method consistent with the city's existing liquor
license measurement standard. The Board of Aldermen may reduce this distance by
resolution if an applicant shows good cause for the same. The determination of
what constitutes good cause shall be at the sole discretion of the Board of
Aldermen.
   (C)   Outdoor operations or storage. All operations and all storage of
materials, products, or equipment shall be within a fully secured area inside
the building structure or outdoors on the property in an area enclosed by a
fence with razor wire at least ten feet in height, not including the razor wire
or such other alternative security measures approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Onsite usage prohibited. No marijuana may be smoked, ingested, or
otherwise consumed on the premises of any marijuana-infused products
manufacturing facility at any time.
   (E)   Display of licenses required. The marijuana-infused products
manufacturing facility license issued by the State of Missouri, along with the
city-issued license pursuant to this subchapter, shall be displayed in a
prominent place in plain view near the front desk of the facility.
   (F)   The city may revoke the business license of the facility for
violations of this section.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.30 MARIJUANA CULTIVATION AND TESTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued or renewed for a marijuana-cultivation or
testing facility that does not meet the standards of this section.
   (B)   Distance requirement.
      (1)   No marijuana cultivation facility shall be located within 300
legally walkable feet of a then-existing elementary or secondary school, state-
licensed child day-care center, or church (see RSMo. § 650.010 B(27) for the
definition of 'then existing').
      (2)   In the case of a freestanding facility, the distance between the
facility and the school, daycare, or church shall be measured from the external
wall of the facility structure closest in proximity to the school, daycare, or
church to the closest point of the property line of the school, daycare, or
church. If the school, daycare, or church is part of a larger structure, such
as an office building or strip mall, the distance shall be measured to the
entrance or exit of the school, daycare, or church closest in proximity to the
facility. In the case of a facility that is part of a larger structure, such as
an office building or strip mall, the distance between the facility and the
school, daycare, or church shall be measured from the property line of the
school, daycare, or church to the facility's entrance or exit closest in
proximity to the school, daycare, or church. If the school, daycare, or church
is part of a larger structure, such as an office building or strip mall, the
distance shall be measured to the entrance or exit of the school, daycare, or
church closest in proximity to the facility. Measurements shall be made along
the shortest path between the demarcation points that can be lawfully traveled
by foot.
      (3)   The Board of Aldermen may reduce this distance by resolution if an
applicant shows good cause for the same. The determination of what constitutes
good cause shall be at the sole discretion of the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Outdoor operations or storage. All operations and all storage of
materials, products, or equipment shall be within a fully secured area inside
the building structure or outdoors on the property in an area enclosed by a
fence with razor wire at least ten feet in height, not including the razor wire
or such other alternative security measures approved by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   Onsite usage prohibited. No marijuana may be smoked, ingested, or
otherwise consumed on the premises of any marijuana cultivation facility at any
time.
   (E)   Display of licenses required. The marijuana cultivation facility
license issued by the State of Missouri, along with the city issued license
pursuant to this subchapter, shall be displayed in a prominent place in plain
view near the front entrance of the facility.
   (F)   The city may revoke the business license of the facility for
violations of this section after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.31 DISPOSAL OF MARIJUANA.
   No person shall dispose of marijuana or marijuana-infused products in an
unsecured waste receptacle, not in possession and control of the licensee and
designed to prohibit unauthorized access.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.32 EDIBLE MARIJUANA; LABELING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No edible marijuana-infused product, packaging, or logo sold in this
city pursuant to Article XIV of the Missouri Constitution shall be designed in
the shape of a human, animal, or fruit, including realistic, artistic,
caricature, or cartoon renderings. However, geometric shapes, including, but
not limited to, circles, squares, rectangles, and triangles shall be permitted.
   (B)   Each package, or packages with or within a package, containing an
edible marijuana-infused product with ten or more milligrams of
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) shall be stamped with a universal symbol for such
products, which shall consist of the following:
      (1)   A diamond containing the letters "THC";
      (2)   The letter "M" located under the "THC" within the diamond, to
signify that the product is for medical purposes; and
      (3)   The number of milligrams of THC in the package.
   (C)   The universal symbol shall be placed on the front of the package in
red and white print and shall measure one-half inch by one-half inch from point
to point.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.33 MARIJUANA ODORS AND SMOKE DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any marijuana facility authorized by Article XIV of the Missouri
Constitution which generates marijuana smoke or odor that is capable of being
detected by a person of ordinary senses (including but not limited to any
police officer) beyond the property line of the facility is hereby declared to
be a nuisance. In addition to any other remedy provided for the abatement of
nuisances, the city may revoke the business license of any such facility for
violation of this section after notice and the opportunity for a hearing.
Violation of this section shall also be punishable by a fine, not to exceed
$500.
   (B)   Allowing marijuana smoke or odor that is capable of being detected by
a person of ordinary senses (including but not limited to any police officer)
beyond the property line of the owner is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (C)   In a multi-family building, allowing marijuana smoke or odor that is
capable of being detected by a person of ordinary senses (including but not
limited to any police officer) inside the residence of another tenant of that
building is deemed to be a nuisance, provided however that the offending tenant
shall be given a written warning prior to the city taking any further action.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.34 RESIDENTIAL CULTIVATION.
   To the extent allowed by state law, marijuana may be cultivated in a
residential structure, provided:
   (A)   The structure is the primary residence of a primary caregiver or
qualifying patient or a person with a residential growing permit from the
Department of Health and Senior Services and the marijuana is grown solely for
the use of the qualifying patient who resides there or who is under the care of
the primary caretaker or for the sole use of the permit holder;
   (B)   The residence has operating systems to assure that the emission of
fumes or vapors connected with the cultivation are not allowed out of the
building, or if the residence is in a multifamily building, that such fumes and
vapors are not allowed into any other residence;
   (C)   No manufacturing of marijuana products shall occur in any residence;
   (D)   The cultivation must comply with the security and other requirements
of state law and the rules of the Division of Health and Senior Services; and
   (E)   The resident has notified the City Clerk, including providing proof of
eligibility, on a form provided by the City Clerk. so that law enforcement and
code officials will be aware that the cultivation is lawfully taking place.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.35 RESIDENTIAL CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Persons may consume marijuana in their private residence, or in the
residence of another with permission, but may not dispense or smoke marijuana
in such a manner that the marijuana smoke or odor exits the residence. If
marijuana smoke or odor is capable of being detected by a person of ordinary
senses (including but not limited to any police officer) beyond the property
line of a single- family home or outside of the owned or leased premises of a
duplex or multifamily unit there shall be a rebuttable presumption that this
section has been violated. In a multifamily or similar dwelling, marijuana may
not be dispensed or consumed in any common area.
   (B)   Violation of this provision shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $100.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.36 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to be in possession or consumption of
marijuana or possession of marijuana accessories on the grounds of a public or
private preschool, elementary or secondary school, institution of higher
education, in a school bus, or on the grounds of any correctional facility.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 111.37 PUBLIC CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Smoking marijuana in a location where smoking tobacco is prohibited is
prohibited.
   (B)   Consumption of marijuana in a public place, other than in an area
authorized by the city or the Department of Health and Senior Services is
prohibited.
   (C)   Restaurants serving food that contains marijuana must register with
the city and provide notice on all public entrances and on all menus that
certain food contains marijuana.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$100 for the first offense and not more than $500 for subsequent offenses, as
well as confiscation of the marijuana.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
CHAPTER 112: CIGARETTE TAX
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit required
   
112.03   Application; registration fee
   
112.04   Assignment; validity
   
112.05   Display of permit
   
112.06   Expiration of permit
   
112.07   Duplicate permits
   
112.08   Suspension; revocation of permit
   
112.09   Tax levy
   
112.10   Payment of tax required
   
112.11   Dealers and wholesalers outside city
   
112.12   Monthly payment
   
112.13   Rules and regulations; records
   
112.14   Refunds
   
112.15   Oaths and subpoenas
   
112.16   Fraudulent report
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE. A roll of tobacco or any substitute thereof wrapped in paper and
used for smoking.
   CONSUMER. A person who comes into possession of tobacco for the purpose of
consuming it, giving it away or disposing of it in any way.
   DEALER. Any person dealing directly with the manufacturer of cigarettes in
their purchase and in the business of selling cigarettes as a first seller.
   FIRST SELLER. Includes all persons who make the initial or first sale or
distribution of cigarettes within the city.
   PACKAGE. The individual package, box, or other container from which sales of
cigarettes are normally made or intended to be made.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, society, association, joint stock
company, corporation, estate, receiver, trustee, assignee, referee, or other
person acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, whether appointed by a
court or otherwise, or any combination of individuals.
   RETAILER. Includes persons, other than a dealer or wholesaler as defined in
this section, who is engaged in the business of selling cigarettes at retail,
who shall sell or offer for sale cigarettes, irrespective of quantity, number
of sales, giving the same away, or exposing the same where it may be taken, or
purchased, or otherwise acquired.
   SALE. Any transfer of title or possession, or both, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, for a
consideration, or any agreement therefor.
   WHOLESALER. Includes any persons whose principal business is that of a
wholesale jobber and who is known to the trade as such, who sells cigarettes
for only the purpose of resale or giving them away, or exposing the same where
they may be taken or purchased or otherwise acquired by the retailer. (Prior
Code, § 615.010) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Every person engaged in the retail business of selling cigarettes or
offering or displaying the same for sale within the city shall procure a permit
therefor for each place of business that he or she desires to have for the sale
of cigarettes in the city.
(Prior Code, § 615.020) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION; REGISTRATION FEE.
   Every person desiring to engage in the sale of cigarettes at retail within
the city shall file an application for a cigarette permit, which application
shall be made upon a form prescribed, prepared, and furnished by the City
Collector, and shall set forth such information as he or she shall require.
Every person procuring a cigarette permit shall pay to the City Collector the
sum of $5 as a registration fee for each permit issued for each such place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 615.030) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.04 ASSIGNMENT; VALIDITY.
   Cigarette permits shall not be assignable and shall be valid only for the
persons in whose names they are issued and for the transaction of business in
the place designated therein.
(Prior Code, § 615.040) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.05 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Each cigarette permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall at
all times be conspicuously displayed at the place for which issued.
(Prior Code, § 615.050) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.06 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   All cigarette permits shall expire on December 31 and renew January 1 next
after the date of such permit unless sooner suspended, surrendered, or revoked
by the City Collector.
(Prior Code, § 615.060) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.07 DUPLICATE PERMITS.
   Whenever any cigarette permit issued under the provisions of this chapter is
defaced, destroyed, or lost, the City Collector shall issue a duplicate permit
for the defaced, destroyed, or lost permit, upon the payment of a fee of $5.
(Prior Code, § 615.070) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.08 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Board of Aldermen may suspend or, after a hearing, revoke a cigarette
permit whenever it finds that the holder thereof has failed to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations prescribed or
promulgated under this chapter, or sells cigarettes to minors in violation of
state statute. Upon suspending or revoking any cigarette permit, the Board of
Aldermen shall request the holder thereof to surrender to the City Collector
immediately all permits or duplicates thereof, and the holder shall surrender
promptly all such permits to the City Collector as requested. Whenever the
Board of Aldermen shall suspend a cigarette permit, it shall cause the holder
to be notified immediately and afford him or her a hearing if desired. After
such hearing, the Board of Aldermen shall rescind its order of suspension, or
if good cause appears therefor, shall continue the suspension or revoke the
permit. (Prior Code, § 615.080) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.09 TAX LEVY.
   Every dealer, wholesaler, or retailer engaged in the business of selling
cigarettes or offering or displaying the same for sale within the city shall
pay an occupation tax at the rate of $40 per thousand packs for all cigarettes
sold or offered or displayed for sale. This tax shall be paid but once, as
provided in for §
112.12, by the dealer, wholesaler, or retailer. The intent and meaning of this
chapter is that the same shall levy an occupation tax based upon and pursuant
to the methods provided for by RSMo. § 92.040, as amended, and pursuant to the
powers therein granted and the powers contained in the state statutes for
cities of the classification of the city.
(Prior Code, § 615.090) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.10 PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED.
   This tax shall be paid by the dealer, wholesaler, or retailer, as defined in
§
112.01, selling cigarettes or offering them for sale within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 615.100) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.11 DEALERS AND WHOLESALERS OUTSIDE CITY.
   Any dealer or wholesaler selling or offering cigarettes for sale within the
corporate limits of the city, whose place of business is outside the city
limits, shall be bound by all of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 615.110) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.12 MONTHLY PAYMENT.
   It shall be the duty of every dealer, wholesaler, or retailer, as defined in
§
112.01, selling, offering, or displaying for sale any package of cigarettes, to
remit the monthly cigarette tax reporting form and full payment by the
fifteenth day of each following month. The canceled check, accompanied by the
monthly cigarette tax reporting form, shall be proof of payment.
(Prior Code, § 615.120) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS; RECORDS.
   For the purpose of enabling the City Collector to enforce the terms of this
chapter, the following provisions are enacted.
   (A)   Each dealer in the city and those wholesalers and retailers, as
defined in §
112.01, shall procure and retain invoices showing the amount and value of the
shipment of cigarettes received by him or her, the date thereof, and the name
of the shipper, and shall retain this invoice for a period of three years
subject to the use and inspection of the City Collector.
   (B)   All dealers, wholesalers, and retailers, as defined in §
112.01, within the city shall maintain and keep for a period of three years
such other records of cigarettes received, sold, or delivered within the city
as may be required by the City Collector.
   (C)   The City Collector, or his or her duly authorized representatives, are
authorized to examine the books, papers, invoices and other records, stock of
cigarettes in and upon any premises where they are placed, stored, or sold, and
equipment of any such dealer, wholesaler, or retailer pertaining to the sale
and delivery of cigarettes taxable under this chapter.
   (D)   To verify the accuracy of the occupation tax imposed and assessed by
this chapter, each person, as defined in §
112.01, is directed and required to give to the City Collector, or his or her
duly authorized representatives, the means, facilities, and opportunity for
such examinations as are herein provided for and required.
   (E)   In addition to the powers herein granted to the City Collector, he or
she is authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt, promulgate, and enforce
rules and regulations relating to the delegations of his or her powers to a
deputy or other employee of his or her office and any other matter or thing
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (F)   Cigarette tax reporting information received from the state shall be
held in confidence and used solely for verifying cigarette tax payments.
(Prior Code, § 615.130) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.14 REFUNDS.
   Whenever any cigarettes offered for sale within the city are withdrawn from
sale, have become unfit for use and consumption or unsalable, or have been
destroyed, the City Collector is authorized to provide a refund of the amount
of the tax paid by him or her with respect to such cigarettes. The City
Collector is authorized to adopt, prescribe, and promulgate rules and
regulations with regard to the presentation and proof of claim for refunds and
credits as he or she may deem advisable.
(Prior Code, § 615.140) (Ord. 297 §§1—2, 2-1-00)
§ 112.15 OATHS AND SUBPOENAS.
   The City Collector, or his or her employees or agents duly designated and
authorized by him or her, shall have power to administer oaths and take
affidavits in relation to any matter or proceedings in the exercise of their
powers and duties under this chapter. The City Collector shall have power to
subpoena and require the attendance of witnesses and the production of books,
papers, and documents to secure information pertinent to the enforcement of
this chapter and to examine them in relation thereto.
(Prior Code, § 615.150) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
§ 112.16 FRAUDULENT REPORT.
   No person shall falsely and fraudulently make, forge, or alter any report
required under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 615.160) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter by failing to file the report, make a
fraudulent report, or fail to make the payment provided for in §
112.12, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisoned for not
more than 90 days, or be punished by both such fine and imprisonment. Failure
to file each monthly report and make each monthly payment shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 615.170) (Ord. 297, passed 2-1-2000)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required; classes of licenses
   
113.03   License regulations
   
113.04   Schedule of license fees
   
113.05   Application for license and renewal
   
113.06   Licenses; defaced, destroyed, or lost
   
113.07   License or identification card must be shown upon request by licensee
before purchase
   
113.08   Minors
   
113.09   Miscellaneous offenses
   
113.10   Administration of law; license suspension
   
113.11   Hearings upon suspension or revocation of licenses
   
113.12   Conviction of a licensee of a felony
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT PLACE. Any establishment whose business building contains a square
footage of at least 6,000 square feet, and where games of skill commonly known
as billiards, volleyball, indoor golf, bowling, or soccer are usually played or
has a dance floor of at least 2,500 square feet or any outdoor golf course with
a minimum of nine holes, and which has annual gross receipts of at least
$100,000 of which at least $50,000 of such gross receipts is in non-alcoholic
sales.
   BOARD. The Board of Aldermen of the City of Otterville, Missouri.
   CITY. The City of Otterville, Missouri.
   CLOSED PLACE. A place where all doors are locked and where no patrons are in
the place or about the premises.
   COLLECTOR. The Collector of the City of Otterville, Missouri. If a vacancy
exists in the office of COLLECTOR, the City Clerk of the city shall exercise
the duties and authorities herein delegated to the COLLECTOR.
   COMMON EATING AND DRINKING AREA. An area or areas within a building or group
of buildings designated for the eating of food and drinking of liquor sold at
retail by establishments which do not provide areas within their premises for
the consumption of food and liquor, where the costs of maintaining such area or
areas are shared by the payment of common area maintenance charges, as provided
in the respective leases permitting the use of such areas or otherwise, and
where the annual gross income from the sale of prepared meals or food consumed
in such common eating and drinking area is, or is projected to be, at least
$275,000.
   CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES. Where beer is served to, and consumed by, buyer
on the premises of licensee.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. As defined in RSMo. § 311.060(4), as amended.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Alcohol for beverage purposes, including alcoholic,
spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquors, or combination of
liquors, apart of which is spirituous, vinous, or fermented, and all
preparations or mixtures for beverage purposes, containing in excess of 0.5% by
volume, except for non-intoxicating beer as defined herein. All beverages
having an alcoholic content of less than 0.5% by volume shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license authorized by this chapter has been
issued.
   LIGHT WINES. An intoxicating liquor consisting of wine containing not in
excess of 14% of alcohol by weight made exclusively from grapes, berries, and
other fruits and vegetables.
   MALT LIQUOR. An intoxicating liquor containing alcohol in excess of 3.2% by
weight and not in excess of 5% by weight, manufactured from pure hops or pure
extract of hops, or pure barley malt or wholesome grains or cereals, and
wholesome yeast and pure water.
   NON-INTOXICATING BEER. Any beer manufactured from pure hops or pure extract
of hops, and pure barley malt or other wholesome grains or cereals, and
wholesome yeast, and pure water, and free from all harmful substances,
preservatives, and adulterants, and having an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not exceeding 3.2% by weight.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any package sealed or otherwise closed by the manufacturer
so as to consist of a self-contained unit, and consisting of one or more
bottles or other containers of intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer,
where the package and/or container(s) describes the contents thereof as
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer. ORIGINAL PACKAGE shall also be
construed and held to refer to any package containing three or more standard
bottles of beer.
   PERSON. An individual, association, firm, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, receiver, trustee, conservator, or any other officer
appointed by any state or federal court.
   RESORT. Any establishment having at least 30 rooms for the overnight
accommodation of transient guests, having a restaurant or similar facility on
the premises at least 60% of the gross income of which is derived from the sale
of prepared meals or food, or means a restaurant provided with special space
and accommodations where, in consideration of payment, food, without lodging,
is habitually furnished to travelers and customers, and which restaurant
establishment’s annual gross receipts immediately preceding its application for
a license shall not have been less than $75,000 per year with at least $50,000
of such gross receipts from non-alcoholic sales, or means a seasonal resort
restaurant with food sales as determined in RSMo. § 311.095(2). Any facility
which is owned and operated as a part of the RESORT may be used to sell
intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises of such
facility and, for the purpose of meeting the annual gross food receipts
requirements of this definition, if any facility which is a part of the resort
meets such requirement, such requirement shall be deemed met for any other
facility which is a part of the resort.
   RESTAURANT BAR. Any establishment having a restaurant or similar facility on
the premises at least 50% of the gross income of which is derived from the sale
of prepared meals or food consumed on such premises or which has an annual
gross income of at least $200,000 from the sale of prepared meals or food
consumed on such premises.
   SALE. The transfer of title or possession, or both, by exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, for a
consideration, or an agreement therefor.
   SALE BY THE DRINK. Sale of any intoxicating liquor except malt liquor, in
the original package, in any quantity less than 50 milliliters shall be deemed
SALE BY THE DRINK and may be made only by a holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, and when so made, the container in every case shall be emptied and the
contents thereof served as other intoxicating liquors sold by the drink are
served.
(Prior Code, § 600.010) (Ord. 181, passed 1-20-1976)
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer for sale intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer in the city without a currently valid liquor
license issued by the city. A separate liquor license shall be required for
each of the categories and subcategories of liquor sales in which the licensee
desires to engage as set forth herein.
   (B)   General licenses. Any person possessing the qualifications and meeting
the requirements of this chapter may apply for the following licenses to sell
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer:
      (1)   Package liquor - malt liquor only. Sales of malt liquor at retail
in the original package not for consumption on the premises where sold;
      (2)   Package liquor - non-intoxicating beer. Sales of non-intoxicating
beer at retail in the original package not for consumption on the premises
where sold;
      (3)   Package liquor - all kinds. Sales of all kinds of intoxicating
liquors in the original package at retail not for consumption on the premises
where sold, including sales as set forth in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above;
      (4)   Liquor by the drink - malt liquor/light wine only. Sales of malt
liquor and light wines at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises
where sold, including sales as set forth in divisions (B)(1) above and (B)(5)
below;
      (5)   Liquor by the drink - non-intoxicating beer. Sales of non-
intoxicating beer at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises where
sold, including sales as set forth in division (B)(2) above; and
      (6)   Intoxicating liquor by the drink. Sales of intoxicating liquor by
the drink at retail for consumption on the premises where sold.
   (C)   Sunday sales. Any person who is licensed under the provisions of this
chapter or who otherwise possesses the qualifications and meets the
requirements of this chapter may apply for the following licenses to sell
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer on Sundays between the hours of 9:
00 a.m. and midnight:
      (1)   Package liquor - all kinds. Sales of liquor of all kinds in the
original package at retail not for consumption on the premises where sold;
      (2)   Liquor by the drink - restaurant bar. Sales of liquor of all kinds
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any restaurant bar;
      (3)   Liquor by the drink - amusement place. Sales of liquor of all kinds
by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any amusement place;
      (4)   Liquor by the drink - place of entertainment. Sales of liquor of
all kinds by the drink at retail for consumption on the premises of any place
of entertainment; and
      (5)   Liquor by the drink - common eating and drinking area. Sales of
liquor of all kinds by the drink at retail not for consumption on the premises
where sold but for consumption in a common eating or drinking area.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   Temporary permit for sale by drink. Any person who possesses the
qualifications, meets the requirements, and complies with the provisions of §
113.03(C), may apply for a special permit to sell intoxicating liquor for
consumption on premises where sold.
      (2)   Tasting permit. Any person who is licensed to sell intoxicating
liquor in the original package at retail under divisions (B)(3) and (C) above,
above, may apply for a special permit to conduct wine, malt beverage, and
distilled spirit tastings on the licensed premises; however, nothing in this
section shall be construed to permit the licensee to sell wine, malt beverages,
or distilled spirits for on-premises consumption.
(Prior Code, § 600.020) (Ord. 326, passed 12-6-2003; Ord. 401, passed 8-11-
2010) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 LICENSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Package sales, limitations. No license shall be issued for the sale of
intoxicating liquor in the original package, not to be consumed upon the
premises where sold, except to a person engaged in, and to be used in
connection with, the operation of one or more of the following businesses: a
drug store, a cigar and tobacco store, a grocery store, a general merchandise
store, a confectionery or delicatessen store, nor to any such person who does
not have and keep in his or her store a stock of goods having a value according
to invoices of at least $1,000, exclusive of fixtures and intoxicating liquors.
Under such license, no intoxicating liquor shall be consumed on the premises
where sold nor shall any original package be opened on the premises of the
vendor except as otherwise provided in this chapter or law.
   (B)   Newly-opened restaurant bars or amusement places.
      (1)   Any new restaurant bar having been in operation for less than 90
days may be issued a temporary license to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink
at retail for consumption on the premises between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
midnight on Sunday for a period not to exceed 90 days, if the restaurant bar
can show a projection of annual business from prepared meals or food consumed
on the premises of at least 50% of the total gross income of the restaurant bar
for the year or can show a projection of annual business from prepared meals or
food consumed on the premises which would exceed not less than $200,000. The
license fee shall be prorated for the period of the temporary license based on
the cost of the annual license for the establishment.
      (2)   Any new amusement place having been in operation for less than 90
days may be issued a temporary license to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink
at retail for consumption on the premises between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
midnight on Sunday for a period not to exceed 90 days, if the amusement place
can show a projection of gross receipts of at least $100,000, of which at least
$50,000 of such gross receipts are in non-alcoholic sales for the first year of
operation. The license fee shall be prorated for the period of the temporary
license based on the cost of the annual license for the establishment.
   (C)   Temporary permit for sale by drink - certain organizations.
      (1)   The City Clerk may issue a permit for the sale of intoxicating
liquor and non-intoxicating beer for consumption on premises where sold to any
church, school, civic, service, fraternal, veteran, political, or charitable
club or organization for sale at a picnic, bazaar, fair, or similar gathering.
The permit shall be issued only for the day or days named therein and it shall
not authorize the sale of intoxicating liquor for more than seven days by any
such club or organization.
      (2)   If the event will be held on a Sunday, the permit shall authorize
the sale of intoxicating liquor and non-intoxicating beer on that day beginning
at 11:00 a.m.
      (3)   At the same time that an applicant applies for a permit under the
provisions of this division (C), the applicant shall notify the Director of
Revenue of the holding of the event by certified mail and by such notification
shall accept responsibility for the collection and payment of any applicable
sales tax.
      (4)   No provision of law or rule or regulation of the city shall be
interpreted as preventing any wholesaler or distributor from providing
customary storage, cooling, or dispensing equipment for use by the permit
holder at such picnic, bazaar, fair, or similar gathering.
   (D)   Operating hours, days.
      (1)   No licensee or any employee of such licensee shall sell, give away,
or otherwise dispose of, or allow the same to be done, on or about the
premises, any intoxicating liquor in any quantity between the hours of 1:30
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on weekdays, and between the hours of 1:30 a.m. on Sunday
and 6:00 a.m. on Monday, except as otherwise authorized and licensed for Sunday
sales. Any person licensed to sell intoxicating liquor by the drink shall keep
a closed place during the aforementioned prohibited times.
      (2)   When January 1, March 17, July 4, or December 31 falls on Sunday,
and on the Sundays prior to Memorial Day and Labor Day and on the Sunday on
which the national championship game of the National Football League is played,
commonly known as “Super Bowl Sunday”, any person having a license to sell
intoxicating liquor by the drink may be open for business and sell intoxicating
liquor by the drink under the provisions of his or her license on that day from
the time and until the time which would be lawful on another day of the week,
notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter to the contrary.
   (E)   General license regulations.
      (1)   Each license issued hereunder shall be conspicuously posted on the
premises for which the license has been issued.
      (2)   A separate license shall be required for each place of business.
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall particularly
describe the premises at which intoxicating liquor may be sold thereunder, and
such license shall not be deemed to authorize or permit the sale of
intoxicating liquor at any place other than that described therein.
      (3)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable or
assignable except as herein provided. In the event of the death of the
licensee, the widow or widower or the next of kin of such deceased licensee,
who shall meet the other requirements of this chapter, may make application and
the Clerk may transfer such license to permit the operation of the business of
the deceased for the remainder of the period for which a license fee has been
paid by the deceased. Whenever one or more members of a partnership withdraws
from the partnership, the Clerk, upon being requested, shall permit the
remaining partner, or partners, originally licensed, to continue to operate for
the remainder of the period for which the license fee has been paid, without
obtaining a new license.
      (4)   In the event any licensee desires to change the location of his or
her place of business in the city, it shall be necessary for him or her to file
an application in the same manner as herein provided for an original
application, except that no additional fee shall be charged and the amended
license, describing the new location, shall be issued immediately upon the
approval of the application by the Board. Any change of location of the
enterprise prior to issuance of such an amended license shall constitute a
violation of this section.
   (F)   Druggists may sell and physicians prescribe liquor. Any druggist may
have in his or her possession intoxicating liquor purchased by him or her from
a licensed vendor under a license pursuant to state law, or intoxicating liquor
lawfully acquired at the place of acquisition and legally transported into this
state, and lawfully inspected, gauged, and labeled as provided by state law;
such intoxicating liquor to be used in connection with the business of a
druggist, in compounding medicines or as a solvent or preservant; provided,
that nothing in this chapter shall prevent a regularly licensed druggist, after
he or she procures a license therefor, from selling intoxicating liquor in the
original package, but not to be drunk or the packages opened on the premises
where sold; and provided further, that nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as limiting the right of a physician to prescribe intoxicating liquor
in accordance with his or her professional judgment for any patient at any
time, or prevent a druggist from selling intoxicating liquor to a person on
prescription from a regularly licensed physician as above provided.
   (G)   Fees taken in lieu of proportionate part of merchant’s tax and ad
valorem tax. The fees to be charged under the provisions of this section shall
be taken in lieu of the proportionate part of any merchant’s license fee and ad
valorem tax for the stock and sales of intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer under the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city,
and the aggregate amount of the sales thereof made by any licensee hereunder
shall not be returned by such merchant for purposes of merchant’s license or ad
valorem tax, nor shall such stock of sales be included in the computation of
any merchant’s license or ad valorem tax.
(Prior Code, § 600.030) (Ord. 326, passed 12-6-2003) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The following categories and sub-categories of license shall be issued
upon compliance with provisions of this chapter and payment of the license fee
indicated.
      (1)   General licenses.
 
License                                                           Fee
Intoxicating liquor (all kinds) - original package                $150
Intoxicating liquor by the drink at retail for consumption on the $450
premises where sold
Malt liquor and light wines - by drink                            $52.50
Malt liquor - original package                                    $22.50
Non-intoxicating beer - by drink                                  $37.50
Non-intoxicating beer - original package                          $22.50
 
      (2)   Sunday sales (additional fees).
 
License                                        Fee
Intoxicating liquor - original package         $300
Liquor by the drink - charitable organizations $300
Restaurant bars                                $300
 
      (3)   Permits.
 
Permit                                                                Fee
Tasting permit                                                        $37.50
Temporary permit - by the drink for certain organizations (seven days $37.50
max)
Of the license fee to be paid for any such license, the applicant shall pay
as many twelfths as there are months (part of a month counted as a month)
remaining from the date of the license to the next succeeding December 1.
 
   (B)   No refund shall be made for any unexpired term of a license
surrendered, revoked, or suspended.
(Prior Code, § 600.040) (Ord. 181, passed 1-20-1976; Ord. 335, passed 8-7-2004;
Ord. 370, passed 1-6-2007; Ord. 401, passed 8-11-2010)
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Filing of an application. Each application for an original or renewal
license shall be filed with the City Clerk on a form to be provided by the
city, signed and sworn to by the applicant. Each application shall be
accompanied by a proper remittance reflecting the appropriate license fee made
payable to the city.
   (B)   Bond requirements. Each application for a license shall be accompanied
by a bond, to be given to the city in the amount of $1,000 with sufficient
sureties, conditioned that the person obtaining such license shall at all times
abide by the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Act, being RSMo. Chapter
311, this chapter, and all other ordinances of the city. Only one bond shall be
required under this section from any one person and such bond shall, while in
force, cover all licenses held by any one applicant and all classes of sales
carried on hereunder. Such bond may be sued on in the name of the city for the
use and benefits of any person damaged by the breach of any of the conditions
thereof.
   (C)   Qualifications. Neither the applicant nor any officer, director, or
shareholder of a corporate applicant shall have been convicted of a felony or
of any distribution, sale, or possession of any controlled substances or
dangerous drugs. The applicant shall present with the application a bona fide
sale contract or option duly executed, which may be subject to the applicant
obtaining a liquor license, or a bona fide lease duly executed by the lessor,
or an option for a lease duly executed, subject to the applicant obtaining a
liquor license, covering the property for which a liquor license is requested.
If the applicant is a corporation, the petition shall set forth all of the
above information with respect to the managing officer or officers, identifying
such officer or officers. The application shall further state the full name of
the corporation, its date of incorporation, its registered agent and registered
address, the names and addresses of all shareholders of the corporation, and
whether said corporation operates any other business or controls or is
controlled by any other corporation or business, and if so, the application
shall further state the name of such controlled or controlling corporation or
business, its registered agent and registered address, and the location of all
businesses operated by it and the name and address of any such businesses with
a liquor license, whether within or without the city; and the application shall
also state if such controlling corporation or any controlled corporation is
doing business under a fictitious name, and the address where said business is
located. The Board of Aldermen also may request such additional information of
an applicant as it may deem necessary for it to make a determination with
respect to the issuance of a liquor license.
   (D)   Hearing on application. Upon the filing of the application with the
Clerk, the Clerk shall fix a date for a hearing before the Board not more than
31 days from the date of filing of the application, and shall give the
applicant written notice of the date of the hearing. The hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with §
113.11.
      (1)   Location of certain businesses.
         (a)   Distance from schools and the like. The Board shall consider the
location of the proposed business for which a license is sought with respect to
its proximity to a school, a church, a public park or playground, and to other
places of the character for which a license is sought, and shall have authority
to refuse to issue a license when in their judgment the issuance thereof would
not be in the best interests of the locality in which the applicant applies for
a location of such place. In no event shall the Board approve the issuance of a
license for the sale of liquor within 300 feet of any school, church, or other
building regularly used as a place of worship unless the applicant for the
license shall first obtain the consent in writing of the board of directors of
the school, or the consent in writing of the majority of the managing board of
the church or place of worship; except that when a school, church, or place of
worship shall thereafter be established within 300 feet of any place of
business licensed to sell intoxicating liquor, renewal of the license shall not
be denied for lack of consent in writing as herein provided.
         (b)   Licensed premises in residential districts. The Board shall not
authorize the issuance of a license under this chapter for the sale of 5% beer,
or 3.2% beer for consumption on the premises where sold, within a residential
district unless and until the applicant for such a license shall have presented
to the Board a petition containing the signatures of 75% of the persons owning
the property located within a radius of 300 feet of the proposed licensed
premises, consenting to the establishment of such licensed business and the
granting of a license therefor; provided however, it shall not be necessary for
any person desiring to obtain a renewal of a license of an established place of
business within a residential district to obtain such consent.
      (2)   Findings required for approval. The Board shall approve the
application if, after the hearing it finds that:
         (a)   Issuance of the requested license would be in the best interests
of the locality of the proposed business;
         (b)   The applicant is a person of good moral character, a native born
or naturalized citizen of the United States of America, a registered voter, and
a taxpaying citizen of the city;
         (c)   No license theretofore issued to such applicant to sell
intoxicating liquors has been revoked within two years of the date of the
application;
         (d)   The applicant has not been convicted since the ratification of
the Twenty-First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States of the
violation of any law applicable to the sale of intoxicating liquor, or that
such applicant has not employed in his or her business any person whose license
has been revoked or who has been convicted of violating the provisions of such
law since the date aforesaid; and
         (e)   The applicant plans and proposes to conduct a retail liquor
business in compliance with the laws of the state, the ordinances of the city,
and the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Application approval. Upon approval of any application for a license,
the Clerk shall grant the applicant a license to conduct business in the city
for a term to expire on June 30 next succeeding the date of such license,
unless such license be revoked or suspended for cause before the expiration of
such time.
   (F)   License renewal. Applications for renewal of licenses must be filed on
or before November 1 of each calendar year. Such renewal application shall be
reviewed by the Board at its next meeting. Upon approval of the majority of the
Board and payment of the license fee provided herein, the Clerk shall renew the
license. In the event that any person residing or conducting businesses within
200 feet of the applicant’s place of business shall file a written protest
against the renewal of such license, the Board shall conduct a hearing on the
application for license renewal as provided in division (D) above.
(Prior Code, § 600.050) (Ord. 95, passed 10-21-1963; Ord. 181, passed 1-20-
1976)
§ 113.06 LICENSES; DEFACED, DESTROYED, OR LOST.
   Whenever any license issued under the provisions of this chapter is defaced,
destroyed, or lost, the Collector shall issue a duplicate license for that
license defaced, destroyed, or lost, upon the payment of a fee of $0.50 by
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 600.055) (Ord. 181, passed 1-20-1976)
§ 113.07 LICENSE OR IDENTIFICATION CARD MUST BE SHOWN UPON REQUEST BY LICENSEE
BEFORE PURCHASE.
   An operator’s or chauffeur’s license issued under the provisions of RSMo. §
302.177, as amended, or an identification card as provided for in RSMo. §
302.181, shall be presented by the holder thereof upon request of any person
licensed, or the servant, agent, or employee of such person, for the purpose of
aiding the licensee, or the servant, agent, or employee thereof, to determine
whether or not the person presenting such license or identification is at least
21 years of age when such person desires to purchase 5% beer or 3.2% beer from
a person licensed.
(Prior Code, § 600.057) (Ord. 181, passed 1-20-1976)
§ 113.08 MINORS.
   (A)   Persons 18 years of age or older may sell or handle liquor or beer.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person under the
age of 21 years shall sell or assist in the sale or dispensing of intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer.
      (2)   In any place of business licensed in accordance with this chapter,
persons at least 18 years of age may stock, arrange displays, operate the cash
register or scanner connected to a cash register, accept payment for, and sack
for carry-out intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer. Delivery of
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer away from the licensed business
premises cannot be performed by anyone under the age of 21 years. Any licensee
who employs any person under the age of 21 years, as authorized by this
division (A) shall, when at least 50% of the licensee’s gross sales does not
consist of non-alcoholic sales, have an employee 21 years of age or older on
the licensed premises during all hours of operation.
      (3)   Persons 18 years of age or older may, when acting in the capacity
of a waiter or waitress, accept payment for or serve intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer in places of business which sell food for consumption on
the premises if at least 50% of all sales in those places consists of food;
provided, that nothing in this section shall authorize persons under 21 years
of age to mix or serve across the bar intoxicating beverages or non-
intoxicating beer.
   (B)   Sales to minor; exceptions. No licensee, his or her employee, or any
other person, shall procure for, sell, vend, give away, or otherwise supply any
intoxicating liquor in any quantity whatsoever to any person under the age of
21 years, except that this section shall not apply to the parent or guardian of
the minor nor to the supplying of intoxicating liquor to a person under the age
of 21 years for medical purposes only, or to the administering of such
intoxicating liquor to such person by a duly licensed physician. No person
shall be denied a license or renewal of a license issued under this chapter
solely due to a conviction for unlawful sale or supply to a minor while serving
in the capacity as an employee of a licensed establishment.
   (C)   Misrepresentation of age by minor to obtain liquor - use of altered
driver’s license, passport, or ID cards.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years shall represent, for the
purpose of purchasing, asking for, or in any way receiving any intoxicating
liquor, that he or she has attained the age of 21 years, except in cases
authorized by law.
      (2)   In addition to division (C)(1) above, no person under the age of 21
years shall use a reproduced, modified, or altered chauffeur’s license, motor
vehicle operator’s license, identification card issued by any uniformed service
of the United States, passport, or identification card established in RSMo. §
302.181, for the purpose of purchasing, asking for, or in any way receiving any
intoxicating liquor.
   (D)   Purchase or possession by minor. No person under the age of 21 years
shall purchase, attempt to purchase, or possess any intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer except as otherwise authorized by law. For purposes of
prosecution, a manufacturer sealed container which describes its contents as
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer need not be opened or the contents
tested to establish the contents as intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer.
(Prior Code, § 600.060) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   Unlawful for licensed retailer to purchase from other than licensed
wholesaler. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase any intoxicating
liquor except from, by, or through a duly licensed wholesale liquor dealer in
this state. It shall be unlawful for such retail liquor dealer to sell or offer
for sale any intoxicating liquor purchased in violation of the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Mixing liquor with drugs prohibited. No licensee or any other person
shall, for any purpose whatsoever, mix or permit or cause to be mixed with any
intoxicating liquor kept for sale, sold, or supplied by him or her as a
beverage, any drug or form of methyl alcohol or impure form of alcohol.
   (C)   Unlawful to sell unlabeled liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell any intoxicating liquor which has not been inspected and labeled
according to the provisions of the state’s Liquor Control Law, being RSMo.
Chapter 311, and any such person upon conviction shall have his or her license
revoked and shall be ineligible to receive any subsequent liquor license for a
period of two years thereafter.
   (D)   Only those liquors authorized by license to be kept on premises. It
shall be unlawful for any licensee licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor
at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises to keep in or upon the
premises described in such license any intoxicating liquor other than the kind
of liquor expressly authorized to be sold by such licensee.
   (E)   Off-premises consumption.
      (1)   No licensee shall sell intoxicating liquor at retail in the
original package, not to be consumed on the premises where sold, in any
original package containing less than 50 milliliters.
      (2)   No licensee shall permit any person to remove from the licensed
premises any intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer in any unsealed
glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type.
      (3)   All licensees shall post a notice at each exit of the premises
which is used by customers or patrons that “NO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MAY BE
CARRIED IN AN OPEN CONTAINER OUT OF THIS BUILDING”.
   (F)   Persons apparently intoxicated not to be provided with intoxicating
liquor or non-intoxicating beer. It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or his
or her employee or agent, to sell or supply intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer, or permit such to be sold or supplied, to a habitual
drunkard or to any person who is under or apparently under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
   (G)   Drinking in public places prohibited.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE shall mean any
public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare, or other public way of
the city, or any parking lot.
      (2)   No person shall drink or ingest any intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer in or on any public place.
      (3)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
unsealed glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while in or upon any public place.
      (4)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
unsealed glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while within or on any motor
vehicle while the same is being operated upon, or parked or standing in or
upon, any public place. Any person operating a motor vehicle shall be deemed to
be in possession of an open container contained within the motor vehicle he or
she has control of whether or not he or she has actual physical possession of
the open container.
   (H)   Live entertainment on premises prohibited. No person licensed for the
sale of intoxicating liquor by the drink for consumption on the premises shall
permit or allow any live entertainment on the premises. The playing and singing
of music solely shall not be considered entertainment under this section.
(Prior Code, § 600.070) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 ADMINISTRATION OF LAW; LICENSE SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation of license; when; manner. The Board may
suspend or revoke the license of any person for cause shown. In such cases, the
City Clerk shall schedule a hearing before the Board not less than ten days
prior to the effective date of revocation or suspension, and prior to the
hearing the Clerk shall give not less than ten days’ written notice specifying
grounds for the suspension or revocation thereof to the licensee of the grounds
upon which the license is sought to be revoked or suspended and the time, date,
and place of the hearing. Notice may be accomplished by personal delivery, U.S.
mail, or by posting on the licensed premises. The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with §
113.11.
   (B)   Grounds for suspension or revocation. A license may be suspended or
revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violating any of the provisions of either this chapter or RSMo.
Chapter 311, or any ordinance of the city;
      (2)   Failing to obtain or keep a license from the State Supervisor of
Liquor Control;
      (3)   Making a false affidavit in an application for a license under this
chapter;
      (4)   Failing to keep an orderly place or house;
      (5)   Selling, offering for sale, possessing, or knowingly permitting the
consumption on the licensed premises of any kind of intoxicating liquors, the
sale, possession, or consumption of which is not authorized under the license;
      (6)   Selling, offering for sale, possessing, or knowingly permitting the
consumption of any intoxicating liquor which has not been inspected and labeled
according to the laws of the state; or
      (7)   Selling, giving, or otherwise supplying intoxicating liquor to:
         (a)   Any person under the age of 21 years;
         (b)   Any person during unauthorized hours on the licensed premises;
         (c)   A habitual drunkard or to any person who is under or apparently
under the influence of intoxicating liquor; or
         (d)   Any person on the licensed premises during a term of suspension
as ordered by the Board.
   (C)   Automatic revocation/suspension. A license shall be revoked
automatically if the licensee’s state liquor license is revoked or if the
licensee is convicted in any court of any violation of RSMo. Chapters 311 or
312. A license shall be suspended automatically if the licensee’s state liquor
license is suspended, and the suspension shall be for a term not less than that
imposed by the state.
   (D)   Effect of suspension. No person whose license shall have been
suspended by order of the Board shall sell or give away any intoxicating liquor
or non-intoxicating beer during the time such suspension is in effect. Any
licensee desiring to keep premises open for the sale of food or merchandise
during the period of suspension shall display the Board’s order of suspension
in a conspicuous place on the premises so that all persons visiting the
premises may readily see the same.
(Prior Code, § 600.080)
§ 113.11 HEARINGS UPON SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Testimony; evidence. Hearings before the Board shall be in the nature
of informal investigations. Testimony of witnesses and other evidence pertinent
to the inquiry may be taken in such hearings, and all proceedings in such
hearings shall be recorded. Any person residing or conducting a business within
200 feet of the proposed establishment shall have the right to produce
witnesses and testimony.
   (B)   Witnesses; how summoned. Subpoenas may be issued by the Board for any
person whose testimony is desired at any hearing. Such subpoenas may be served
and returns thereon made by any agent and in the same manner as provided by law
for the service of subpoenas in civil suits in the Circuit Courts of this
state. The Board also may issue subpoenas duces tecum requiring the production
of documents or other items pertaining to the subject of the inquiry.
   (C)   Witnesses to be sworn. Before any witness shall testify in any such
hearing, he or she shall be sworn by the City Clerk to tell the truth and
nothing but the truth.
   (D)   Decision; suspension or revocation. If the evidence supports a finding
that the license should be revoked or suspended pursuant to §
113.10, the Board shall issue a written order which shall include specific
findings of fact setting forth the grounds for the action taken. If the
evidence fails to support a finding that the license should be revoked or
suspended, then no such order shall be issued.
   (E)   Appeal. Any applicant or licensee aggrieved by a decision of the Board
may appeal such decision to the Circuit Court as provided in RSMo. Chapter 536,
provided such appeal is filed within ten days of the date of the Board’s
decision. The Board may delay the implementation of its order pending appeal.
(Prior Code, § 600.090)
§ 113.12 CONVICTION OF A LICENSEE OF A FELONY.
   The conviction of a licensee of a felony by any court of the state or of any
other state of the United States of America or by any court of the United
States of America shall automatically revoke a license issued to such licensee
under the provisions of this chapter, without the necessity of an application
provided for in §
113.10(B).
(Prior Code, § 600.095) (Ord. 181, passed 1-20-1976)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for
a term not exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 600.100)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
CHAPTER 130: CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS
Section
Offenses Against the Person
   
130.001   Assault
   
130.002   Assault of a law enforcement officer
   
130.003   Harassment
   
130.004   False imprisonment
   
130.005   Endangering the welfare of a child
Offenses Concerning Administration of Justice
   
130.020   Concealing an offense
   
130.021   Hindering prosecution
   
130.022   Refusal to identify as a witness
   
130.023   Disturbing a judicial proceeding
   
130.024   Tampering with a witness; tampering with a victim
   
130.025   Improper communication
   
130.026   False impersonation
   
130.027   False reports
   
130.028   Resisting or interfering with arrest
   
130.029   Escape or attempted escape from custody
Offenses Concerning Public Safety
   
130.040   Abandonment of airtight or semi-airtight containers
   
130.041   Littering
   
130.042   Corrupting or diverting water supply
   
130.043   Abandoning motor vehicle
Offenses Concerning Public Peace
   
130.055   Peace disturbance
   
130.056   Private peace disturbance
   
130.057   Peace disturbance definitions
   
130.058   Weapons; carrying concealed; other unlawful use
   
130.059   Discharging air gun and the like
   
130.060   Unlawful assembly
   
130.061   Rioting
   
130.062   Refusal to disperse
Offenses Concerning Property
   
130.075   Tampering
   
130.076   Property damage
   
130.077   Claim of right
   
130.078   Trespass in the first degree
   
130.079   Trespass in the second degree
   
130.080   Reckless burning or exploding
   
130.081   Negligent burning or exploding
   
130.082   Stealing
   
130.083   Receiving stolen property
   
130.084   Shoplifting; detention of suspect by merchant; liability presumption
Offenses Concerning Alcohol and Drugs
   
130.100   Definitions
   
130.101   Possession or growing marijuana
   
130.102   Failure to produce medical marijuana identification
   
130.103   Unlawful use of drug paraphernalia
   
130.104   Inhalation or inducing others to inhale solvent fumes to cause
certain reactions, prohibited; exceptions
   
130.105   Inducing, or possession with intent to induce, symptoms by use of
solvents
   
130.106   Possession or purchase of solvents to aid others in violations,
prohibited; violations
   
130.107   Drinking or possession of open container of alcoholic beverages in
public places prohibited
   
130.108   Driving under the influence of marijuana
   
130.109   Additional motor vehicle offenses involving marijuana
Offenses Concerning Minors
   
130.120   Definitions
   
130.121   Prohibited sale of tobacco products to minors
Miscellaneous Offenses
   
130.135   Indecent exposure/sexual misconduct
   
130.136   Erection or maintenance of barbed wire or electrically charged fences
   
130.137   Fireworks
   
130.138   Refuse dump on private premises prohibited
   
130.139   Unlawful removal of construction materials and the like from public
ways
   
130.140   Congregation of persons prohibiting flow of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic
   
130.141   Unnecessary noise
   
130.142   Real estate owners; prohibited acts
   
130.143   Posting of handbills and the like on property
   
130.144   Animal carcasses
 
   
130.999   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
§ 130.001 ASSAULT.
   A person commits the offense of assault if:
   (A)   He or she attempts to cause or recklessly causes physical injury to
another person;
   (B)   With criminal negligence, he or she causes physical injury to another
person by means of a deadly weapon;
   (C)   He or she purposely places another person in apprehension of immediate
physical injury;
   (D)   He or she recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk of
death or serious physical injury to another person; or
   (E)   He or she knowingly causes physical contact with another person
knowing the other person will regard the contact as offensive or provocative.
(Prior Code, § 210.010) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 ASSAULT OF A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   A person commits the offense of assault of a law enforcement officer if:
   (A)   He or she attempts to cause or recklessly causes physical injury to a
law enforcement officer;
   (B)   With criminal negligence, he or she causes physical injury to a law
enforcement officer by means of a deadly weapon;
   (C)   He or she purposely places a law enforcement officer in apprehension
of immediate physical injury;
   (D)   He or she recklessly engages in conduct which creates a grave risk of
death or serious physical injury to a law enforcement officer; or
   (E)   He or she knowingly causes or attempts to cause physical contact with
a law enforcement officer without the consent of the law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 210.020) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 HARASSMENT.
   A person commits the offense of harassment if, for the purpose of
frightening or disturbing another person, he or she:
   (A)   Communicates in writing or by telephone, a threat to commit any
felony;
   (B)   Makes a telephone call or communicates in writing and uses coarse
language offensive to one of average sensibility;
   (C)   Makes a telephone call anonymously; or
   (D)   Makes repeated telephone calls.
(Prior Code, § 210.030) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 FALSE IMPRISONMENT.
   A person commits the offense of false imprisonment if he or she knowingly
restrains another unlawfully and without consent so as to interfere
substantially with his or her liberty.
(Prior Code, § 210.040) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.005 ENDANGERING THE WELFARE OF A CHILD.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of endangering the welfare of a child if:
      (1)   He or she, with criminal negligence, acts in a manner that creates
a substantial risk to the life, body, or health of a child less than 17 years
old;
      (2)   He or she knowingly encourages, aids, or causes a child less than
17 years old to engage in any conduct which causes or tends to cause the child
to come within the provisions of RSMo. §§ 211.031(1)(2)(d) or 211.031(1)(3);
      (3)   Being a parent, guardian, or other person legally charged with the
care or custody of a child less than 17 years old, he or she recklessly fails
or refuses to exercise reasonable diligence in the care or control of such
child to prevent him or her from coming within the provisions of RSMo. §§
211.031(1)(1)(c), 211.031(1)(2)(d), or 211.031(1)(3); or
      (4)   He or she knowingly encourages, aids, or causes a child less than
17 years of age to enter into any room, building, or other structure which is a
public nuisance as defined in RSMo. § 195.253.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to mean the welfare of a
child is endangered for the sole reason that he or she is being provided non-
medical remedial treatment recognized and permitted under the laws of this
state.
(Prior Code, § 210.050) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
OFFENSES CONCERNING ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
§ 130.020 CONCEALING AN OFFENSE.
   A person commits the offense of concealing an offense if:
   (A)   He or she confers or agrees to confer any pecuniary benefit or other
consideration to any person in consideration of that person’s concealing of any
offense, refraining from initiating or aiding in the prosecution of an offense,
or withholding any evidence thereof; or
   (B)   He or she accepts or agrees to accept any pecuniary benefit or other
consideration in consideration of his or her concealing any offense, refraining
from initiating or aiding in the prosecution of an offense, or withholding any
evidence thereof.
(Prior Code, § 210.060) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.021 HINDERING PROSECUTION.
   A person commits the offense of hindering prosecution if, for the purpose of
preventing the apprehension, prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another
for conduct constituting a crime, he or she:
   (A)   Harbors or conceals such person;
   (B)   Warns such person of impending discovery or apprehension, except this
does not apply to a warning given in connection with an effort to bring another
into compliance with the law;
   (C)   Provides such person with money, transportation, weapon, disguise, or
other means to aid him or her in avoiding discovery or apprehension; or
   (D)   Prevents or obstructs, by means of force, deception, or intimidation,
anyone from performing an act that might aid in the discovery or apprehension
of such person.
(Prior Code, § 210.070) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.022 REFUSAL TO IDENTIFY AS A WITNESS.
   A person commits the offense of refusal to identify as a witness if, knowing
he or she has witnessed any portion of a crime, or of any other incident
resulting in physical injury or substantial property damage, upon demand by a
law enforcement officer engaged in the performance of his or her official
duties, he or she refuses to report or gives a false report of his or her name
and present address to such officer.
(Prior Code, § 210.080) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.023 DISTURBING A JUDICIAL PROCEEDING.
   A person commits the offense of disturbing a judicial proceeding if, with
purpose to intimidate a judge, attorney, juror, party, or witness, and thereby
to influence a judicial proceeding, he or she disrupts or disturbs a judicial
proceeding by participating in an assembly and calling aloud, shouting, or
holding or displaying a placard or sign containing written or printed matter,
concerning the conduct of the judicial proceeding, or the character of a judge,
attorney, juror, party, or witness engaged in such proceeding, or calling for
or demanding any specified action or determination by such judge, attorney,
juror, party, or witness in connection with such proceeding.
(Prior Code, § 210.090) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.024 TAMPERING WITH A WITNESS; TAMPERING WITH A VICTIM.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of tampering with a witness if, with
purpose to induce a witness or a prospective witness in an official proceeding
to disobey a subpoena or other legal process, or to absent himself or herself
or avoid subpoena or other legal process, or to withhold evidence, information,
or documents, or to testify falsely, he or she:
      (1)   Threatens or causes harm to any person or property;
      (2)   Uses force, threats, or deception;
      (3)   Offers, confers, or agrees to confer any benefit, direct or
indirect, upon such witness; or
      (4)   Conveys any of the foregoing to another in furtherance of a
conspiracy.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of “victim tampering” if, with purpose to
do so, he or she prevents or dissuades or attempts to prevent or dissuade any
person who has been a victim of any crime or a person who is acting on behalf
of any such victim from:
      (1)   Making any report of such victimization to any Peace Officer, or
state, local, or federal law enforcement officer, or prosecuting agency or to
any judge;
      (2)   Causing a complaint, indictment, or information to be sought and
prosecuted or assisting in the prosecution thereof; or
      (3)   Arresting or causing or seeking the arrest of any person in
connection with such victimization.
(Prior Code, § 210.100) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.025 IMPROPER COMMUNICATION.
   A person commits the offense of improper communication if he or she
communicates, directly or indirectly, with any juror, special master, referee,
or arbitrator in a judicial proceeding, other than as part of the proceedings
in a case, for the purpose of influencing the official action of such person.
(Prior Code, § 210.110) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.026 FALSE IMPERSONATION.
   A person commits the offense of false impersonation if he or she:
   (A)   Falsely represents himself or herself to be a public servant with
purpose to induce another to submit to his or her pretended official authority
or to rely upon his or her pretended official acts and:
      (1)   Performs an act in that pretended capacity; or
      (2)   Causes another to act in reliance upon his or her pretended
official authority.
   (B)   Falsely represents himself or herself to be a person licensed to
practice or engage in any profession for which a license is required by the
laws of this state with purpose to induce another to rely upon such
representation and:
      (1)   Performs an act in that pretended capacity; or
      (2)   Causes another to act in reliance upon such representation.
(Prior Code, § 210.120) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.027 FALSE REPORTS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of making a false report if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Gives false information to a law enforcement officer for the
purpose of implicating another person in a crime or offense;
      (2)   Makes a false report to a law enforcement officer that a crime or
offense has occurred or is about to occur; or
      (3)   Makes a false report or causes a false report to be made to a law
enforcement officer, security officer, Fire Department, or other organization,
official, or volunteer, which deals with emergencies involving danger to life
or property that a fire or other incident calling for an emergency response has
occurred.
   (B)   It is a defense to a prosecution under division (A) above that the
actor retracted the false statement or report before the law enforcement
officer or any other person took substantial action in reliance thereon.
   (C)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue of
retraction under division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 210.130) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.028 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH ARREST.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of resisting or interfering with arrest
if, knowing that a law enforcement officer is making an arrest, or attempting
to lawfully detain or stop an individual or vehicle, or the person reasonably
should know that a law enforcement officer is making an arrest or attempting to
lawfully detain or lawfully stop an individual or vehicle, for the purpose of
preventing the officer from effecting the arrest, stop, or detention, the
person:
      (1)   Resists the arrest, stop, or detention of such person by using or
threatening the use of violence or physical force or by fleeing from such
officer; or
      (2)   Interferes with the arrest, stop, or detention of another person by
using or threatening the use of violence, physical force, or physical
interference.
   (B)   This section applies to arrests, stops, or detentions with or without
warrants and to arrests, stops, or detentions for any crime, infraction, or
ordinance violation.
   (C)   It is no defense to a prosecution under division (A) above that the
law enforcement officer was acting unlawfully in making the arrest; however,
nothing in this section shall be construed to bar civil suits for unlawful
arrest.
(Prior Code, § 210.140) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.029 ESCAPE OR ATTEMPTED ESCAPE FROM CUSTODY.
   A person commits the offense of escape from custody or attempted escape from
custody if, while being held in custody after arrest for any crime or offense,
he or she escapes or attempts to escape from custody.
(Prior Code, § 210.150) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
OFFENSES CONCERNING PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 130.040 ABANDONMENT OF AIRTIGHT OR SEMI-AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of abandonment of airtight icebox if he
or she abandons, discards, or knowingly permits to remain on premises under his
or her control, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned or discarded
icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight container which has a
capacity of one and one-half cubic feet or more, and an opening of 50 square
inches or more, and which has a door or lid equipped with hinge, latch, or
other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without rendering
such equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches, or
other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to an icebox, refrigerator, or other
airtight or semi-airtight container located in that part of a building occupied
by a dealer, warehouseman, or repairman.
   (C)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue under
division (B) above.
(Prior Code, § 210.160) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.041 LITTERING.
   A person commits the offense of littering if he or she throws or places, or
causes to be thrown or placed, any glass, glass bottles, wire, nails, tacks,
hedge, cans, garbage, trash, refuse, or rubbish of any kind, nature, or
description on the right-of-way of any public road or state highway or on or in
any of the waters in this city or on the banks of any stream, or on any land or
water owned, operated, or leased by the state, any board, department, agency,
or commission thereof or on any land or water owned, operated, or leased by the
federal government or on any private real property owned by another without his
or her consent.
(Prior Code, § 210.170) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.042 CORRUPTING OR DIVERTING WATER SUPPLY.
   Whoever willfully or maliciously poisons, defiles, or in any way corrupts
the water of a well, spring, brook, or reservoir used for domestic or municipal
purposes, or whoever willfully or maliciously diverts, dams up, and holds back
from its natural course and flow any spring, brook, or other water supply for
domestic or municipal purposes, after said water supply shall have once been
taken for use by any person or persons, corporation, town, or city for their
use, shall be adjudged guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 210.190) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.043 ABANDONING MOTOR VEHICLE.
   A person commits the offense of abandoning a motor vehicle if he or she
abandons any motor vehicle on the right-of-way of any public road or state
highway or on or in any of the waters in this state or on the banks of any
stream, or on any land or water owned, operated, or leased by the state, any
board, department, agency, or commission thereof, or any political subdivision
thereof or on any land or water owned, operated, or leased by the federal
government or on any private real property owned by another without his or her
consent.
(Prior Code, § 210.200) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES CONCERNING PUBLIC PEACE
§ 130.055 PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   A person commits the offense of peace disturbance if:
   (A)   He or she unreasonably and knowingly disturbs or alarms another person
or persons by:
      (1)   Loud noise;
      (2)   Offensive language addressed in a face-to-face manner to a specific
individual and uttered under circumstances which are likely to produce an
immediate violent response from a reasonable recipient;
      (3)   Threatening to commit a felonious act against any person under
circumstances which are likely to cause a reasonable person to fear that such
threat may be carried out;
      (4)   Fighting; or
      (5)   Creating a noxious and offensive odor.
   (B)   He or she is in a public place or on private property of another
without consent and purposely causes inconvenience to another person or persons
by unreasonably and physically obstructing:
      (1)   Vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
      (2)   The free ingress or egress to or from a public or private place.
(Prior Code, § 210.210) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.056 PRIVATE PEACE DISTURBANCE.
   A person commits the offense of private peace disturbance if he or she is on
private property and unreasonably and purposely causes alarm to another person
or persons on the same premises by:
   (A)   Threatening to commit a crime or offense against any person; or
   (B)   Fighting.
(Prior Code, § 210.220) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.057 PEACE DISTURBANCE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of §§
130.055 and
130.056, the following words shall have the meanings set out herein.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any place which at the time is not open to the public.
It includes property which is owned publicly or privately.
      PROPERTY OF ANOTHER. Any property in which the actor does not have a
possessory interest.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which at the time is open to the public. It
includes property which is owned publicly or privately.
   (B)   If a building or structure is divided into separately occupied units,
such units are separate premises.
(Prior Code, § 210.230)
§ 130.058 WEAPONS; CARRYING CONCEALED; OTHER UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons if he or she
knowingly:
      (1)   Carries concealed upon or about his or her person a knife, a
blackjack, or any other weapon readily capable of lethal use;
      (2)   Discharges or shoots a firearm within the city limits; or
      (3)   Possesses a firearm or projectile weapon while intoxicated.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)(4) above shall not apply to or
affect any of the following:
      (1)   All state, county, and municipal law enforcement officers
possessing the duty and power of arrest for violation of the general criminal
laws of the state or for violation of ordinances of counties or municipalities
of the state, or any person summoned by such officers to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace while actually engaged in assisting such
officer;
      (2)   Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of prisons, penitentiaries,
jails, and other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted
of crime;
      (3)   Members of the Armed Forces or National Guard while performing
their official duty;
      (4)   Those persons vested by Article V, Section 1 of the Constitution of
Missouri with the judicial power of the state and those persons vested by
Article III of the Constitution of the United States with the judicial power of
the United States, the members of the Federal Judiciary;
      (5)   Any person whose bona fide duty is to execute process, civil or
criminal;
      (6)   Any Federal Probation Officer;
      (7)   Any state probation or parole officer, including supervisors and
members of the Board of Probation and Parole, authorized to carry a firearm
pursuant to RSMo. § 217.710;
      (8)   Any corporate security advisor meeting the definition and
fulfilling the requirements of the regulations established by the Board of
Police Commissioners under RSMo. § 84.340; and
      (9)   The discharge of firearms in connection with any turkey shoots or
other charitable event authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   Divisions (A)(1), (A)(3), and (A)(4) above do not apply when the actor
is transporting such weapons in a non-functioning state or in an unloaded state
when ammunition is not readily accessible or when such weapons are not readily
accessible. Division (A)(1) above does not apply when the actor is also in
possession of an exposed firearm or projectile weapon for the lawful pursuit of
game, or is in his or her dwelling unit or upon business premises over which
the actor has possession, authority, or control, or is traveling in a
continuous journey peaceably through the city.
(Prior Code, § 210.240) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.059 DISCHARGING AIR GUN AND THE LIKE.
   Any person within the limits of this city, who shall discharge any BB gun,
spring gun, or air gun, or shall shoot any pebble, bullet, slug, or other hard
substance by means of a sling, crossbow, rubber band, or bow or any other means
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 210.250) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.060 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   A person commits the offense of unlawful assembly if he or she knowingly
assembles with six or more other persons and agrees with such persons to
violate any of the criminal laws of this state or of the United States with
force or violence.
(Prior Code, § 210.260) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.061 RIOTING.
   A person commits the offense of rioting if he or she knowingly assembles
with six or more other persons and agrees with such persons to violate any of
the criminal laws of this state or of the United States with force or violence,
and thereafter, while still so assembled, does violate any of said laws with
force or violence.
(Prior Code, § 210.270) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.062 REFUSAL TO DISPERSE.
   A person commits the offense of refusal to disperse if, being present at the
scene of an unlawful assembly, or at the scene of a riot, he or she knowingly
fails or refuses to obey the lawful command of a law enforcement officer to
depart from the scene of such unlawful assembly or riot.
(Prior Code, § 210.280) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES CONCERNING PROPERTY
§ 130.075 TAMPERING.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of tampering if he or she:
      (1)   Tampers with property of another for the purpose of causing
substantial inconvenience to that person or to another;
      (2)   Unlawfully rides in or upon another’s automobile, airplane,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle;
      (3)   Tampers or makes connection with property of a utility; or
      (4)   Tampers with, or causes to be tampered with, any meter or other
property of an electric, gas, steam, or water utility, the effect of which
tampering is either:
         (a)   To prevent the proper measuring of electric, gas, steam, or
water service; or
         (b)   To permit the diversion of any electric, gas, steam, or water
service.
   (B)   In any prosecution under division (A)(4) above, proof that a meter or
any other property of a utility has been tampered with, and the person or
persons accused received the use or direct benefit of the electric, gas, steam,
or water service, with one or more of the effects described in division (A)(4)
above, shall be sufficient to support an inference which the trial court may
submit to the trier of fact, from which the trier of fact may conclude that
there has been a violation of such division by the person or persons who use or
receive the direct benefit of the electric, gas, steam, or water service.
(Prior Code, § 210.290) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.076 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   A person commits the offense of property damage if:
   (A)   He or she knowingly damages property of another; or
   (B)   He or she damages property for the purpose of defrauding an insurer.
(Prior Code, § 210.300) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.077 CLAIM OF RIGHT.
   (A)   A person does not commit an offense by damaging, tampering with,
operating, riding in or upon, or making connection with property of another if
he or she does so under a claim of right and has reasonable grounds to believe
he or she has such a right.
   (B)   The defendant shall have the burden of injecting the issue of claim of
right.
(Prior Code, § 210.310)
§ 130.078 TRESPASS IN THE FIRST DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of trespass in the first degree if he or
she knowingly enters unlawfully or knowingly remains unlawfully in a building
or inhabitable structure or upon real property.
   (B)   A person does not commit the offense of trespass by entering or
remaining upon real property unless the real property is fenced or otherwise
enclosed in a manner designed to exclude intruders or as to which notice
against trespass is given by:
      (1)   Actual communication to the actor; or
      (2)   Posting in a manner reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders.
(Prior Code, § 210.320) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.079 TRESPASS IN THE SECOND DEGREE.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of trespass in the second degree if he or
she enters unlawfully upon real property of another. This is an offense of
absolute liability.
   (B)   Trespass in the second degree is an infraction.
(Prior Code, § 210.330) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.080 RECKLESS BURNING OR EXPLODING.
   A person commits the offense of reckless burning or exploding when he or she
knowingly starts a fire or causes an explosion and thereby recklessly damages
or destroys a building or an inhabitable structure of another.
(Prior Code, § 210.340) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.081 NEGLIGENT BURNING OR EXPLODING.
   A person commits the offense of negligent burning or exploding when he or
she, with criminal negligence, causes damage to property of another by fire or
explosion.
(Prior Code, § 210.350) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.082 STEALING.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of stealing if he or she appropriates
property or services of another with the purpose to deprive him or her thereof,
either without his or her consent or by means of deceit or coercion.
   (B)   Evidence of the following is admissible in any prosecution under this
section on the issue of the requisite knowledge or belief of the alleged
stealer that:
      (1)   He or she failed or refused to pay for property or services of a
hotel, restaurant, inn, or boarding house;
      (2)   He or she gave in payment for property or services of a hotel,
restaurant, inn, or boarding house a check or negotiable paper on which payment
was refused;
      (3)   He or she left the hotel, restaurant, inn, or boarding house with
the intent to not pay for property or services; or
      (4)   He or she surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his or her
baggage from a hotel, inn, or boarding house.
(Prior Code, § 210.360) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.083 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of receiving stolen property if for the
purpose of depriving the owner of a lawful interest therein, he or she
receives, retains, or disposes of property of another knowing that it has been
stolen, or believing that it has been stolen.
   (B)   Evidence of the following is admissible in any criminal prosecution
under this section to prove the requisite knowledge or belief of the alleged
receiver that:
      (1)   He or she was found in possession or control of other property
stolen on separate occasions from two or more persons;
      (2)   He or she received other stolen property in another transaction
within the year preceding the transaction charged; or
      (3)   He or she acquired the stolen property for a consideration which he
or she knew was far below its reasonable value.
(Prior Code, § 210.370) Penalty, see §
130.999
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.084 SHOPLIFTING; DETENTION OF SUSPECT BY MERCHANT; LIABILITY PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT. Any mercantile place of business in, at, or
from which goods, wares, and merchandise are sold, offered for sale, or
delivered from and sold at retail or wholesale.
      MERCHANDISE. All goods, wares, and merchandise offered for sale or
displayed by a merchant.
      MERCHANT. Any corporation, partnership, association, or person who is
engaged in the business of selling goods, wares, and merchandise in a
mercantile establishment.
      WRONGFUL TAKING. Includes stealing of merchandise or money and any other
wrongful appropriation of merchandise or money.
   (B)   Any merchant, his or her agent or employee, who has reasonable grounds
or probable cause to believe that a person has committed or is committing a
wrongful taking of merchandise or money from a mercantile establishment, may
detain such person in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time
for the purpose of investigating whether there has been a wrongful taking of
such merchandise or money. Any such reasonable detention shall not constitute
an unlawful arrest or detention, nor shall it render the merchant, his or her
agent or employee, criminally or civilly liable to the person so detained.
   (C)   Any person willfully concealing unpurchased merchandise of any
mercantile establishment, either on the premises or outside the premises of
such establishment, shall be presumed to have so concealed such merchandise
with the intention of committing a wrongful taking of such merchandise within
the meaning of division (A) above, and the finding of such unpurchased
merchandise concealed upon the person or among the belongings of such person
shall be evidence of reasonable grounds and probable cause for the detention in
a reasonable manner and for a reasonable length of time, of such person by a
merchant, his or her agent or employee, in order that recovery of such
merchandise may be effected, and any such reasonable detention shall not be
deemed to be unlawful, nor render such merchant or his or her agent or employee
criminally or civilly liable.
(Prior Code, § 210.390) Penalty, see §
130.999
OFFENSES CONCERNING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
§ 130.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTER. To apply a controlled substance, whether by injection,
inhalation, ingestion, or any other means, directly to the body of a patient or
research subject by:
      (1)   A practitioner (or, in his or her presence, by his or her
authorized agent); or
      (2)   The patient or research subject at the direction and in the
presence of the practitioner.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  A drug, substance, or immediate precursor in
Schedules I through V listed in RSMo. Chapter 195, but not including marijuana
in an amount of less than six ounces.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer from
one person to another of drug paraphernalia or of a controlled substance, or an
imitation controlled substance, whether or not there is an agency relationship,
and includes a sale.
   DEPRESSANT OR STIMULANT SUBSTANCE.
      (1)   A drug containing any quantity of barbituric acid or any of the
salts of barbituric acid or any derivative of barbituric acid which has been
designated by the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services as habit
forming under 21 U.S.C. Section 352(d);
      (2)   A drug containing any quantity of:
         (a)   Amphetamine or any of its isomers;
         (b)   Any salt of amphetamine or any salt of an isomer of amphetamine;
or
         (c)   Any substance the United States Attorney General, after
investigation, has found to be, and by regulation designated as, habit forming
because of its stimulant effect on the central nervous system;
         (d)   Lysergic acid diethylamide; or
      (3)   Any drug containing any quantity of a substance that the United
States Attorney General, after investigation, has found to have, and by
regulation designated as having, a potential for abuse because of its
depressant or stimulant effect on the central nervous system or its
hallucinogenic effect.
   DISPENSE. To deliver a narcotic or controlled dangerous drug to an ultimate
user or research subject by or pursuant to the lawful order of a practitioner,
including the prescribing, administering, packaging, labeling, or compounding
necessary to prepare the substance for such delivery.
   DISPENSER.  A practitioner who dispenses.
   DISTRIBUTE. To deliver other than by administering or dispensing a
controlled substance.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA or PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products, and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance
or an imitation controlled substance in violation of RSMo. §§ 195.005 to
195.425 but not including marijuana accessories. It includes, but is not
limited to:
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (3)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances or imitation controlled substances;
       (4)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use
in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance or an imitation controlled substance;
      (5)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances or imitation controlled substances;
      (6)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances or imitation controlled substances;
      (7)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances or imitation controlled substances;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances or
imitation controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances or imitation controlled substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances or imitation controlled
substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances or
imitation controlled substances into the human body;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body, except those designed or intended for use with marijuana, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
          (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
except those for use with marijuana, that has become too small or too short to
be held in the hand;
         (f)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (g)   Chamber pipes;
         (h)   Carburetor pipes;
         (i)   Electric pipes;
         (j)   Air-driven pipes;
         (k)   Chillums;
         (l)   Bongs;
         (m)   Ice pipes or chillers;
         (n)   Substances used, intended for use, or designed for use in the
manufacture of a controlled substance.
      (13)   In determining whether an object, product, substance, or material
is drug paraphernalia, a court or other authority should consider, in addition
to all other logically relevant factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance or imitation controlled substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter or RSMo. Chapter 579;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances or
imitation controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances or
imitation controlled substances on the object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this chapter or RSMo. Chapter 579; the innocence of an owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct violation of this chapter or
RSMo. Chapter 579, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for
use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National or local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use;
         (o)   The quantity, form, or packaging of the product, substance, or
material in relation to the quantity, form, or packaging associated with any
legitimate use for the product, substance, or material.
   HALLUCINOGENIC SUBSTANCES.  Include lysergic acid diethylamide, mescaline,
psilocybin, and various types of methoxyamphetamines.
   IMITATION CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. A substance that is not a controlled
substance, which by dosage unit appearance (including color, shape, size, and
markings), or by representations made, would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the substance is a controlled substance. In determining whether
the substance is an imitation controlled substance the court or authority
concerned should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
      (1)   Whether the substance was approved by the Federal Food and Drug
Administration for over-the-counter (non-prescription or non-legend) sales and
was sold in the Federal Food and Drug Administration-approved package, with the
Federal Food and Drug Administration-approved labeling information;
      (2)   Statements made by an owner or by anyone else in control of the
substance concerning the nature of the substance, or its use or effect;
      (3)   Whether the substance is packaged in a manner normally used for
illicit controlled substances;
      (4)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or anyone in control of the
object, under state or federal law related to controlled substances or fraud;
      (5)   The proximity of the substances to controlled substances;
      (6)   Whether the consideration tendered in exchange for the non-
controlled substance substantially exceeds the reasonable value of the
substance considering the actual chemical composition of the substance and,
where applicable, the price at which over-the-counter substances of like
chemical composition sell. An imitation controlled substance does not include a
non-controlled substance that was initially introduced in commerce prior to the
initial introduction into commerce of the controlled substance that it is
alleged to imitate. Furthermore, an imitation controlled substance does not
include a placebo or registered investigational drug either of which was
manufactured, distributed, possessed, or delivered in the ordinary course of
professional practice or research;
      (7)   Stimulants such as amphetamines and methamphetamines;
      (8)   Barbiturates and other depressants such as amobarbital,
secobarbital, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, methaqualone, phencyclidine, and
diazepam.
   LICENSE or LICENSED. Persons required to obtain annual registration as
issued by the State Division of Health as provided by RSMo. § 195.030.
   MANUFACTURE.  The production, preparation, propagation, compounding, or
processing of drug paraphernalia or of a controlled substance, or an imitation
controlled substance, either directly or by extraction from substances of
natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by a
combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging or
repackaging of the substance or labeling or relabeling of its container. This
term does not include the preparation or compounding of a controlled substance
or an imitation controlled substance by an individual for his or her own use or
the preparation, compounding, packaging, or labeling of a narcotic or dangerous
drug:
      (1)   By a practitioner as an incident to his or her administering or
dispensing of a controlled substance or an imitation controlled substance in
the course of his or her professional practice; or
      (2)   By a practitioner or by his or her authorized agent under his or
her supervision, for the purpose of, or as an incident to, research, teaching,
or chemical analysis and not for sale.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of the plant genus Cannabis in any species or form
thereof, including, but not limited to Cannabis Sativa L., except industrial
hemp, Cannabis Indica, Cannabis Americana, Cannabis Ruderalis, and Cannabis
Gigantea, whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from
any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, sale, derivative,
mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin. It does not include
the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake
made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination.
   MARIJUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, product, material, or a combination of
equipment, products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing marijuana into the human body.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, government, or governmental subdivision
or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, joint venture,
association, or any other legal or commercial entity.
   PHARMACIST. A licensed pharmacist as defined by the laws of this state, and
where the context so requires, the owner of a store or other place of business
where controlled substances are compounded or dispensed by a licensed
pharmacist; but nothing in this section shall be construed as conferring on a
person who is not registered or licensed as a pharmacist any authority, right
or privilege tbat is not granted to him or her by the pharmacy laws of this
state.
   PRACTITIONER. A physician, dentist, optometrist, podiatrist, veterinarian,
scientific investigator, pharmacy, hospital, or other person licensed,
registered, or otherwise permitted by this state to distribute, dispense,
conduct research with respect to or administer or to use in teaching or
chemical analysis, a controlled substance in the course of professional
practice or research in this state, or a pharmacy, hospital or other
institution licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted to distribute,
dispense, conduct research with respect to or administer a controlled substance
in the course of professional practice or research.
   PRESCRIPTION. A written order and, in cases of emergency, a telephone order,
issued by a practitioner in good faith in the course of his or her professional
practice to a pharmacist for a drug or a particular patient which specifies the
date of its issue, the name, and address of the patient (and, if such drug is
prescribed for an animal, the species of such animal), the name and quantity of
the drug prescribed, the directions for use of such drug, and the signature of
the practitioner.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER. An individual 21 years of age or older who has
significant responsibility for managing the well-being of a qualifying patient
and who is designated as such on the primary caregiver’s application for an
identification card under the provisions of Article XIV, Section 1, of the
Missouri Constitution or in other written notification to the Missouri
Department of Health and Senior Services.
   PRODUCTION.  Includes the manufacture, planting, cultivation, growing, or
harvesting of drug paraphernalia or of a controlled substance or an imitation
controlled substance.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any property owned or controlled by the city or the state, any
public or private road, and any space in a building open to the public,
provided however that the owner of a building may allow smoking in such a
public space provided that all entrances to the public space are clearly and
conspicuously identified with a sign identifying that public smoking of
marijuana is allowed in the space.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT. A Missouri resident diagnosed with at least one
qualifying medical condition as defined by Article XIV, Section 1, of the
Missouri Constitution.
   WAREHOUSEMAN. A person who, in the usual course of business, stores drugs
for others, is lawfully entitled to possess them and who has no control over
the disposition of such drugs except for the purpose of such storage.
   WHOLESALER. A person who supplies drug paraphernalia or controlled
substances or imitation controlled substances that he himself has not produced
or prepared, on official written orders, but not on prescriptions.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 130.101 POSSESSION OR GROWING MARIJUANA.
   (A)   Illegal possession of marijuana.
      (1)   No person may possess more than three ounces of recreational
marijuana, nor more than the amount allowed by the law of medical marijuana.
      (2)   No person under the age of 21 years may possess, use, ingest,
inhale, transport, deliver with or without consideration, marijuana or
marijuana accessories, except that qualified patients under the age of 21 years
may possess medical marijuana or paraphernalia to the extent allowed by law.
   (B)   Illegal growing.
      (1)   Possessing, transporting, planting, cultivating, harvesting,
drying, processing, or manufacturing more than six flowering marijuana plants,
six nonflowering marijuana plants (over 14 inches tall), and six clones (plants
under 14 inches tall); or
      (2)   Possessing, transporting, planting, cultivating, harvesting,
drying, processing, or manufacturing marijuana plants without being registered
with the Department of Health and Senior Services for the cultivation of
marijuana plants; or
      (3)   Failing to keep in excess of three ounces of such plants in a
locked space not visible by normal unaided vision from a public place; or
      (4)   Growing or possessing such plants by a person under the age of 21
years;
   (C)   Sale to persons under 21. No person shall deliver to, transfer to, or
sell to persons 21 years of age or older marijuana or marijuana paraphernalia;
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   If the violation of this section involves three ounces of marijuana
or less, the penalty shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
      (2)   Subject to the limitations of this section, a person who possesses
not more than twice the amount of marijuana allowed pursuant to this section,
produces not more than twice the amount of marijuana allowed pursuant to this
section, delivers without receiving any consideration or remuneration to a
person who is at least 21 years of age not more than twice the amount of
marijuana allowed by this section, or possesses with intent to deliver not more
than twice the amount of marijuana allowed by this section:
         (a)   For a first violation, is subject to a civil infraction
punishable by a civil penalty not exceeding $250 and forfeiture of the
marijuana;
         (b)   For a second violation, is subject to a civil infraction
punishable by a civil penalty not exceeding $500 and forfeiture of the
marijuana:
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, is subject to a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000 and forfeiture of the marijuana;
         (d)   A person under 21 years of age is subject to a civil penalty not
to exceed $250. Any such person shall be provided the option of attending up to
eight hours of drug education or counseling in lieu of the fine; and
         (e)   In lieu of payment, penalties under this section may be
satisfied by the performance of community service. The rate of pay-down
associated with said service option will be the greater of $15 or the minimum
wage in effect at the time of judgment.
      (3)   Violations that are not subject to the provisions of divisions (D)
(1) or (2) of this section shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 and
up to 90 days in jail.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
Editor’s note:
   Under certain circumstances this offense can be a felony under state law
§ 130.102 FAILURE TO PRODUCE MEDICAL MARIJUANA IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person who is in possession of medical marijuana shall, immediately upon
the request of any law enforcement officer, produce a valid permit issued by
the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services (or its successor) for
such possession including, but not limited to, a qualified patient
identification card, a qualified caretaker card, or a similar card issued by
another state. Any person who fails to produce such a permit upon request shall
be guilty of the offense of failure to produce a medical marijuana permit.
Conviction of this offense shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $50.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 130.103 UNLAWFUL USE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia as defined by this chapter to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance, as defined by
this chapter, or an imitation controlled substance, as defined by RSMo. §
195.010, in violation of RSMo. §§ 195.005 to 195.425.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.104 INHALATION OR INDUCING OTHERS TO INHALE SOLVENT FUMES TO CAUSE
CERTAIN REACTIONS, PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any solvent,
particularly toluol, or induce any other person to do so, for the purpose of
causing a condition of, or inducing symptoms of, intoxication, elation,
euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior, exhilaration, paralysis,
stupefaction, or dulling of senses or nervous system, or for the purpose of, in
any manner, changing, distorting, or disturbing the audio, visual, or mental
processes; except that this section shall not apply to the inhalation of any
anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 210.440) (Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.105 INDUCING, OR POSSESSION WITH INTENT TO INDUCE, SYMPTOMS BY USE OF
SOLVENTS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally or willfully induce the symptoms of
intoxication, elation, euphoria, dizziness, excitement, irrational behavior,
exhilaration, paralysis, stupefaction, or dulling of the senses or nervous
system, distortion of audio, visual, or mental processes by the use of any
solvent, particularly toluol.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally possess any solvent, particularly
toluol, for the purpose of using it in the manner prohibited by §
130.104.
(Prior Code, § 210.450) (Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.106 POSSESSION OR PURCHASE OF SOLVENTS TO AID OTHERS IN VIOLATIONS,
PROHIBITED; VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall intentionally possess or buy any solvent, particularly
toluol, for the purpose of inducing or aiding any other person to violate the
provisions of §§
130.104 to
130.105.
(Prior Code, § 210.460) (Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.107 DRINKING OR POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN
PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Alcohol for beverages purposes, including alcoholic,
spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt, or other liquors or combination of
liquors, part of which is spirituous, vinous, or fermented, and all
preparations or mixtures for beverages purposes containing in excess of 0.5% by
volume except for non-intoxicating beer as defined below. All beverages having
an alcohol content of less than 0.5% by volume shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
      NON-INTOXICATING BEER. Any beer manufactured from pure hops or pure
extract of hops and pure barley malt or other wholesome grains or cereals,
unwholesome yeast, impure water, and free from all harmful substances,
preservatives, and adulterants, and having an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume and not exceeding 3.2% by weight.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, thoroughfare,
or other public way of the city, any public building, establishment, school,
business, or parking lot generally opened to the public. PUBLIC PLACE will not
include the inside of an establishment licensed to sell intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer or a place allowed under this section.
   (B)   No person shall drink or ingest any intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer in or on any public place.
   (C)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any unsealed
glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while in or upon any public place.
   (D)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any unsealed
glass, bottle, can, or other open container of any type containing any
intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer while within or on any motor
vehicle while the same is being operated upon, or parked or standing in or upon
any public place. Any person operating a motor vehicle shall be deemed to be in
possession of an open container contained within the motor vehicle he or she
has control of whether or not he or she has actual physical possession of the
open container.
   (E)   For purposes of prosecution under this section, contents in a
manufactured container describing that there is intoxicating liquor or non-
intoxicating beer therein need not be tested to verify that there is
intoxicating liquor in such container. The alleged violator may allege that
there was not intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer in such container,
but the burden of proof of such allegation is on such person as it shall be
presumed that such container describing that there is intoxicating liquor or
non-intoxicating beer therein contains intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating
beer.
   (F)   Consumption of intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer as well as
possession of open containers of said beverages shall be allowed on a permit
basis at the only shelter house in the city and in the city owned park area
immediately surrounding the shelter house, which consists of a rectangle with
the approximate dimensions of 168 feet by 175 feet bordered on the east by
Quail Road, the north by an unnamed road, the west by a field, and the south by
a branch or creek. Permit shall be obtained from City Hall. All permits shall
be signed by an adult who will be held responsible for the actions of anyone
consuming intoxicating liquor or non-intoxicating beer under the permit. All
permits shall be accompanied by a $5 fee and shall run concurrently with the
reservation of the shelter house and shall be for no more than one day.
Possession of a permit does not allow the permit holder or any member of his or
her party to violate any local, state, or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 210.470) (Ord. 169, passed 9-3-1973; Ord. 306, passed 12-5-2000;
Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.108 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF MARIJUANA.
   A person commits the offense of driving under the influence of marijuana if
he or she operates a motor vehicle under the influence of marijuana. Provided
however that the presence of marijuana in the defendant's system alone shall
not be sufficient proof that the defendant was under the influence of
marijuana.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
§ 130.109 ADDITIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE OFFENSES INVOLVING MARIJUANA.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Operate or be in physical control of any motor vehicle, train,
aircraft, motorboat, or other motorized forms of transport while under the
influence of marijuana. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a conviction of a person
who is at least 21 years of age for any applicable offenses shall require
evidence that the person was in fact under the influence of marijuana at the
time the person was in physical control of the motorized form of transport and
not solely on the presence of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) or THC metabolites, or
a combination thereof, in the person's system;
   (B)   Consumption of marijuana while operating or being in physical control
of a motor vehicle, train, aircraft, motorboat, or other motorized forms of
transport while it is being operated; or
   (C)   Smoking marijuana within a motor vehicle, train, or aircraft,
motorboat, or another motorized form of transport while it is being operated.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
OFFENSES CONCERNING MINORS
§ 130.120 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRIMINAL ACT. An act which violates the statutes of the United States, the
statutes of the State of Missouri, or the ordinances of the city, including
curfew and moving traffic violations.
   GUARDIAN. Guardian appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 17.
   PARENT. The natural father or mother, or the adoptive father or mother.
   PARENTAL NEGLECT. Any act or omission by which a parent fails to exercise
customary and effective control over a minor so as to contribute to, cause, or
tend to cause a minor to commit any criminal act.
(Prior Code, § 210.480)
§ 130.121 PROHIBITED SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. A conveyance to the public by sale, barter, gift, or sample.
      MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
      PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license or other generally accepted means of
identification that contains a picture of the individual and appears on its
face to be valid.
      ROLLING PAPERS. Paper designed, manufactured, marketed, and sold for use
primarily as a wrapping or enclosure for tobacco, which enables a person to
roll loose tobacco into a smokeable cigarette.
      SAMPLE. A tobacco product distributed to members of the general public at
no cost or at nominal cost for product promotional purposes.
      SAMPLING. The distribution to members of the general public of tobacco
product samples.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but
not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco, or
dipping tobacco.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric, or electronic self-service
device which, upon insertion of money, tokens, or any other form of payment,
dispenses tobacco products.
   (B)   Prohibition of the sale of tobacco products to a minor. No person
shall sell any tobacco product or distribute any tobacco product or rolling
papers to any minor. This division (B) shall not apply to the distribution by
family members on property that is not open to the public.
   (C)   Vending machines. The owner of an establishment at which tobacco
products or rolling papers are sold at retail or through vending machines shall
cause to be prominently displayed in a conspicuous place at every display from
which tobacco products are sold and on every vending machine where tobacco
products are purchased a sign that shall:
      (1)   Contain in red lettering at least one-half inch high on a white
background, the following: “IT IS A VIOLATION OF STATE LAW FOR CIGARETTES OR
OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO BE SOLD TO ANY PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF TWENTY-ONE”;
and
      (2)   Include a depiction of a pack of cigarettes at least two inches
high defaced by a red diagonal diameter of a surrounding red circle, and the
words “Under 21”.
   (D)   Age requirement. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
tobacco product distribution to persons under 21 years of age.
   (E)   Proof of age. A person selling tobacco products or rolling papers or
distributing tobacco product samples shall require proof of age from a
prospective purchaser or recipient if an ordinary person would conclude on the
basis of appearance that such prospective purchaser or recipient may be under
the age of 21.
   (F)   Liability. If a sale is made by an employee of the owner of an
establishment in violation of this section, the employee shall be guilty of an
offense established in division (B) above. If a vending machine is in violation
of this section, the owner of the establishment shall be guilty of an offense
established in division (B) above. If a sample is distributed by an employee of
a company conducting the sampling, such employee shall be guilty of an offense
established in division (B) above.
   (G)   Defense to prosecution. Reasonable reliance on proof of age or on the
appearance of the purchaser or recipient shall be a defense to any action for a
violation of this section. No person shall be liable for more than one
violation of this section on any single day.
(Prior Code, § 210.510) Penalty, see §
130.999
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 130.135 INDECENT EXPOSURE/SEXUAL MISCONDUCT.
   A person commits the offense of indecent exposure (sexual misconduct) if he
or she exposes his or her genitals under circumstances in which he or she knows
that his or her conduct is likely to cause affront or alarm.
(Prior Code, § 210.400) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.136 ERECTION OR MAINTENANCE OF BARBED WIRE OR ELECTRICALLY CHARGED
FENCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain or for any
property owner or occupant to allow to be erected or maintained on any property
within the city, any fence equipped with or having barbed wire, spikes, or any
similar device or any electrical charge sufficient to cause an electric shock.
   (B)   It shall, however, not be unlawful under this section to maintain a
barbed wire fence so long as said barbed wire is at least six feet above the
ground and at least one foot within the property line of the owner’s or
occupant’s property and so long as said property is located within an
industrial or business zoning classification.
(Prior Code, § 210.520) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.137 FIREWORKS.
   No person shall purchase or sell any fire cracker or cannon cracker of a
greater length than three inches, any Roman candle of a greater capacity than
12 shots, any torpedo, or other fireworks within the limits of the city. Nor
shall any firecracker or other fireworks not prohibited herein be sold within
the limits of the city until after June 25 and before July 4 in any year. Nor
shall any such firecracker or other fireworks not prohibited be shot within the
city at any time other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. of
either the July 3, 4, or 5 in any year. Any person shooting any such
firecracker or other fireworks not herein prohibited within the limits of the
city shall do so in a careful and prudent manner, and shall not throw any such
lighted firecracker or other fireworks at or near any person so that such
person might be injured, frightened, or disturbed thereby, nor at or near any
vehicle, or at or near any building of any person within the limits of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 210.530) (Ord. 276, passed 6-4-1996) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.138 REFUSE DUMP ON PRIVATE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall establish, maintain, keep, or use any private premises
within the city as a refuse dump for the purpose of depositing garbage, cans,
debris, or rubbish of any kind of character thereon.
(Prior Code, § 210.540) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.139 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND THE LIKE FROM PUBLIC
WAYS.
   No person shall remove from any roadway, alley, or other public way in the
city, any gravel, rock, or other material forming part of, or placed thereon by
the city for the construction, maintenance, and repair of such roadway, alley,
or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 210.550) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.140 CONGREGATION OF PERSONS PROHIBITING FLOW OF VEHICULAR OR PEDESTRIAN
TRAFFIC.
   No person shall congregate with another or others in or on any public way or
property in the city so as to hinder or halt the flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic thereon.
(Prior Code, § 210.560) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.141 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall create any unreasonably loud, disturbing, or
unnecessary noise in the city.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any vehicle while such
vehicle is not in motion on a public street or highway, except as a danger
signal;
      (2)   The playing between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., of any
radio, phonograph, or other musical instrument with such volume as to annoy or
disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel, or other
type of residence, provided that any such noise that can be distinctly heard at
a distance of more than 100 feet from its source shall be deemed unreasonably
loud and disturbing;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl which, by frequent or
long-continued noise, disturbs the comfort and repose of any person within 100
feet of the source of such noise;
      (4)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of time to begin or start work or as a warning of danger;
      (5)   The discharge into the open air of the blow-down of any steam
engine or of the exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine or air
compressor, except through a muffler or other device which will affectively
prevent loud or explosive noise therefrom; and
      (6)   The use between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any drum,
loud speaker, or other instrument or device or the use of a loud voice for
advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting attention.
(Prior Code, § 210.570) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.142 REAL ESTATE OWNERS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or occupier of any real estate in the city,
shall maintain or allow any tree, shrub, or any limb or branch thereof, to
overhang any public street, sidewalk, or other public way in such a way as to
impede or interfere with travel on such public way or which has become likely
to fall on or cross any such public way, nor shall such person maintain or
allow any tree or shrub to grow or stand upon such real estate when, by reason
of disease, injury or age, or other condition it has become likely that such
tree or shrub, or any limb or branch thereof, will fall and thereby destroy or
damage a structure on adjacent property or injure a person thereon.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or occupier of real estate in the city,
shall:
      (1)   Permit or allow a residence or other building or structure to be
kept thereon while in a condition dangerous to the safety of persons or
property therein or on adjacent property;
      (2)   Maintain any pond or pool of stagnant water thereon;
      (3)   Discharge or permit the discharge of foul water or other foul
liquid into water ways and drainage ditches within the city; and
      (4)   Discharge any septic tank sludge or sanitary sewer flowage into any
drainage ditch or water way within the city.
   (C)   No person, being the owner or occupier of private residential or other
premises in the city, shall keep any abandoned, dismantled, or partially
dismantled motor car, truck, motor tricycle, wagon, cart, or other conveyance
thereon unless same shall be kept in a building away from public view.
   (D)   No person, being the owner or occupier of private residential premises
in the city, shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of junk, trash, old
newspapers and magazines, lumber, scrap metal, and other rubbish, trash, or
refuse so that same will constitute a fire hazard on such premises or adjoining
premises.
(Prior Code, § 210.580) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971)
§ 130.143 POSTING OF HANDBILLS AND THE LIKE ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall post, stick, or place any handbill, placard, sale bill, or
notice upon any tree, box, building, or fence on any premises in the city
without the consent of the owner or occupier of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 210.590) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.144 ANIMAL CARCASSES.
   No person shall burn or bury carcasses of dead animals on public or private
premises in the city. Such carcasses shall be removed from within the city by
the owner or keeper thereof within ten hours of the time of death of such
animal.
(Prior Code, § 210.600) (Ord. 155, passed 12-27-1971) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
130.103, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500,
or shall be imprisoned for up three months, or shall be both fined and
imprisoned.
(Ord. 472, passed 3-1-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Seismic Design
   
150.01   Earthquake and seismic design requirements
Excavations
   
150.15   Permit required before excavation work
   
150.16   Application for permit
   
150.17   Permit fees
   
150.18   Bond required
   
150.19   Cash deposit
   
150.20   Excavation to be in compliance with terms of permit; no injury to
pipes, cables, trees, and the like
   
150.21   Temporary sidewalk
   
150.22   Surface to be restored to original condition
   
150.23   Inspections
   
150.24   Excavations concerning concrete or asphalt paving
   
150.25   Installation of culverts
Miscellaneous Building Regulations
   
150.40   Moving of houses or other structures
   
150.41   Regulation of uniform system of numbering houses and buildings
fronting on all streets
 
   
150.99   Penalty
SEISMIC DESIGN
§ 150.01 EARTHQUAKE AND SEISMIC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   All construction in the city shall comply with the requirements of RSMo. §§
319.200 through 319.207, and any amendments thereto, relating to earthquakes
and seismic construction requirements.
(Prior Code, § 500.010)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 150.15 PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE EXCAVATION WORK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place in
the city, without having obtained a permit as hereinafter required and without
complying with the provisions of this subchapter and in violation of or
variance from the terms of any such permit.
(Prior Code, § 500.020) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and
shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the
approximate size thereof, the purpose therefor, and the person, firm, or
corporation doing the actual excavating work, and the name of the person, firm,
or corporation for whom or which the work is being done.
   (B)   Such application shall also contain an agreement that the applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(Prior Code, § 500.030) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.17 PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for such permits shall be $25.
(Prior Code, § 500.040) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.18 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has filed with the Clerk a bond in the sum as determined by the Board of
Aldermen conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss, liability, or damage
that may result or accrue from or because of the making, existence, or manner
of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or excavation.
   (B)   Such bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business
in the state as a surety company.
(Prior Code, § 500.050) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.19 CASH DEPOSIT.
   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor has
deposited with the Clerk a sum as determined by the Board of Aldermen to insure
the proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any. From
this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the city of relaying the surface
of the ground or pavement and of making the refill, if this is done by the city
or at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to the applicant without
interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely refilled and the surface
or pavement is restored.
(Prior Code, § 500.060) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.20 EXCAVATION TO BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH TERMS OF PERMIT; NO INJURY TO
PIPES, CABLES, TREES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground. In
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening of the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of such excavation or tunnels and notice shall be given to the persons
or corporation owning or maintaining any such poles, cables, or conduits, or to
the city, department, or officer charged with the care thereof, which are or
may be endangered or affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel
before such pipe, cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots therefor.
(Prior Code, § 500.070) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 TEMPORARY SIDEWALK.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
(Prior Code, § 500.080) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.22 SURFACE TO BE RESTORED TO ORIGINAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or other public place in the city shall restore
the surface to its original condition if there is no pavement there. Refill
shall be properly tamped down and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation
shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with the
ordinances of the city and under the supervision of the City Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 500.090) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.23 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Marshal shall from time to time inspect or cause to be inspected
all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley, or
other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours before
the work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(Prior Code, § 500.100) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
§ 150.24 EXCAVATIONS CONCERNING CONCRETE OR ASPHALT PAVING.
   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street or
sidewalk in the city which is paved with concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement, providing that, upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
(Prior Code, § 500.110) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.25 INSTALLATION OF CULVERTS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to add a culvert in a street right-of-way of the
city or on private property which will allow for drainage of water must make
application through the City Clerk to the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The culvert must be constructed in accordance with the specifications
of the Board of Aldermen which will include, but not be limited to, culvert
sizing based upon the drainage conditions at the location the culvert is to be
installed. The minimum diameter of a culvert will be 12 inches.
   (C)   If requested by the applicant, the city will install the culvert.
Culvert installation fee will be $200 plus the actual cost of materials. The
$200 installation fee plus the cost of materials must be paid in advance prior
to the city beginning construction of the culvert.
   (D)   If a private contractor is utilized or if the applicant is to perform
the work himself or herself, the work must be inspected by the city to assure
that all work was performed in accordance with city specifications.
   (E)   Failure to follow the provisions of this section in installation of a
culvert in the city is unlawful.
(Ord. 326-1, passed 11-3-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.40 MOVING OF HOUSES OR OTHER STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Permit required; fee. It shall be unlawful to move homes or other
structures, or to raze or shore same within the city, without first securing a
permit to do so. Application for such permit shall be made in writing to the
City Clerk. The fee for such permit shall be $50.
   (B)   Compliance with provisions. Persons issued a permit under this section
must comply with all the ordinance provisions relating to the work being done
and must keep lights and warning maintained where work is on or adjacent to
public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other public places.
   (C)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the City Marshal to make or cause
to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   Bond. Every permittee under the provisions of this section shall file
with the Clerk a bond in the sum of $5,000, with sureties to be approved by the
Mayor and Board of Aldermen, conditioned to indemnify the city for any loss,
damage, or expense occasioned by it; by any act or failure to act of the
licensee; or by any failure of the licensee to comply with the ordinance of
this city relating to the business of moving houses or other buildings from one
site to another.
   (E)   Pavement to be protected. The pavement of any street, alley, sidewalk,
or other public place on or along which any house, building, or other structure
shall be moved shall be protected by two inch planks along the route.
(Prior Code, § 500.130) (Ord. 118, passed 11-6-1967) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41 REGULATION OF UNIFORM SYSTEM OF NUMBERING HOUSES AND BUILDING FRONTS
ON ALL STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   BB Highway shall constitute the base line for numbering along
all streets running east and west, A Highway (Old 50) Main Street north and
south.
      (2)   All buildings and lots on diagonal streets shall be numbered the
same as north and south streets if the diagonal runs more from the north to the
south, and the same on east and west streets if the diagonal runs more from the
east to the west.
   (B)   (1)   The numbering for each street shall begin at the base line. The
numbers within the first block shall be from 100 to 199, the third block shall
be 200 to 299, etc. There shall be assigned 100 numbers to each block, square
or space that would be one block or square, if streets each way were so
extended as to intersect each other, and one number shall be assigned to each
15 feet of frontage. In blocks or equivalent space longer than 750 feet that is
not intersected by a street, if extended the total length of space divided by
50 shall be used to determine the feet of frontage assigned to each number.
      (2)   Where blocks of different length occur on opposite sides of a
street, the numbers on both sides shall be assigned on the basis of the shorter
blocks, unless the city clerk shall otherwise determine.
   (C)   All lots and houses on the north and west side of all streets shall be
numbered with odd numbers, each commencing with the hundred assigned to that
block, and shall increase from the base line one number for each 15 feet of
frontage or fraction thereof, except as provided in this section. Where any
building has more than one door serving a separate occupant, separate numbers
shall be assigned, providing the building is 15 feet or more in width. If the
building is not 15 feet or more in width and the entrances are not that far
apart, the next consecutive number shall be marked fractional. Buildings
fronting on two or more streets shall have a number assigned only to the main
entrance, unless other entrances serve different occupants.
      (1)   If not through street. All streets not extending through to the
base line shall be assigned the same relative numbers as if the said street had
extended to the said base line.
      (2)   (a)   Number to be displayed. The Board of Aldermen shall cause the
necessary survey to be made and there shall be assigned to each house and
building located on any street, avenue, alley or highway in said city, its
respective number under the uniform system provided for in this chapter. When
the said survey shall have been completed and each house and building has been
assigned its respective number or numbers, the owner, occupant or agent shall
place or cause to be placed upon each house/building controlled by him the
number or numbers assigned under the uniform system provided for in this
chapter.
         (b)   Such number or numbers shall be placed within 20 days after the
assigning of the proper number. The cost of the number or numbers shall be paid
for by the property owner. Replacements of numbers shall be procured and paid
for by the owner. The numbers used shall be not less than two and one-half
inches in height.
         (c)   The numbers shall be placed conspicuously above, on or at the
side of the proper door of each building so that the number can be seen plainly
from the street. Whenever any building is situated more than 50 feet from the
street line, the number of each such building shall be conspicuously displayed
at the street line, near the walk, drive-way or common entrance to such
building and upon the post, fence, tree, or other appropriate place so as to be
easily discernible from the sidewalk.
   (D)   (1)   Apartments. Where only one number can be assigned to any house
or building, the owner, occupant or agent of such house or building who shall
desire distinctive numbers for the upper and lower portion of any such house or
building, or for any part of such house or building, fronting on any street,
such owner, occupant or agent shall use the suffix "A," "B," "C," etc., as may
be required.
      (2)   City Clerk to assist. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to
inform any party applying therefore, of the number or numbers belonging or
embraced within the limits of said lot or property as provided and assigned to
any lot or building, the City Clerk shall determine the number of such lot or
building.
      (3)   New construction. Whenever any house, building or structure shall
be erected or located in the City, after the entire work of establishing a
uniform system of house numbering has been completed, in order to preserve
continuity and uniformity it is the duty of the owner to procure the correct
number or numbers as designated from the City Clerk for the said property and
to immediately fasten the said number or numbers so assigned upon said building
as provided by this chapter. No building permit shall be issued for any house,
building or structure until the owner has procured from the desk of the clerk
the official number of the premises.
      (4)   Notice of violation. If the owner or occupant of any building
required to be numbered by this chapter shall neglect for the period of 20 days
to duly attach and maintain the proper number on such building, the City
Marshal shall serve upon him a notice requiring such owner or occupant to
properly number the same, and if the property owner neglects to do so for ten
days after the service of such notice, the property owner shall be deemed to
have violated this chapter. Upon conviction thereof he shall be fined not less
than $50 together with the costs of prosecution and in default of payment of
such forfeiture and costs of prosecution such fine and costs are paid, but not
to exceed 30 days for each violation. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 483, passed 5-7-2025)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Persons, firms, or corporations violating any provisions of §§
150.15 to 152.25 or of a permit granted hereunder shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(Prior Code, § 500.120) (Ord. 117, passed 11-6-1967)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and scope
   
151.02   Dangerous buildings defined
   
151.03   Dangerous buildings declared nuisance
   
151.04   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
151.05   Building Inspector
   
151.06   Duties of Building Inspector; procedure and notice
   
151.07   Building Commissioner
   
151.08   Duties of the Building Commissioner
   
151.09   Insurance proceeds; how handled
   
151.10   Appeal
   
151.11   Emergencies
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide a just, equitable, and
practicable method for the repairing, vacation, or demolition of buildings or
structures that may endanger the life, limb, health, property, safety, or
welfare of the occupants of such buildings or the general public, and this
chapter shall apply to all dangerous buildings, as herein defined, that now are
in existence or that may hereafter exist in the city.
(Prior Code, § 505.010)
§ 151.02 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DEFINED.
   All buildings or structures that are detrimental to the health, safety, or
welfare of the residents of the city and that have any or all of the following
defects shall be deemed dangerous buildings:
   (A)   Those with interior walls or other vertical structural members that
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside the middle third of its base;
   (B)   Those that, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more damage or
deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% damage or
deterioration of the non-supporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
   (C)   Those that have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or roofs,
or in which the same are overloaded or that have insufficient strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Those that have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as to
become dangerous to life, safety, or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the people of the city;
   (E)   Those that are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe, unsanitary, or that so
utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to decent living that they are
unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause sickness or disease, so as
to work injury to the health, safety, or welfare of those occupying such
building;
   (F)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities that are inadequate
to protect the health, safety, or general welfare of human beings who live or
may live therein;
   (G)   Those having inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
or those having insufficient stairways, elevators, fire escapes, or other
adequate means of evacuation;
   (H)   Those that have parts thereof that are so attached that they may fall
and injure members of the public or property; and/or
   (I)   Those that because of their condition are unsafe, unsanitary, or
dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of the people of this city.
(Prior Code, § 505.020)
§ 151.03 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED NUISANCE.
   All dangerous buildings or structures, as defined by §
151.02, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 505.030)
§ 151.04 STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed in substance by the Building
Inspector and the Building Commissioner in ordering repair, vacation, or
demolition of any dangerous building.
   (A)   If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it no
longer will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   (B)   If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it dangerous
to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants, it shall be ordered
to be vacated and repaired.
   (C)   In all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it no longer
will exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be demolished.
   (D)   In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard existing or
erected in violation of the terms of this chapter or any ordinance of this city
or state statute, it shall be repaired or demolished.
(Prior Code, § 505.040)
§ 151.05 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Chief of Police shall be the Building Inspector(s) within the meaning of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 505.050)
§ 151.06 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR; PROCEDURE AND NOTICE.
   The Building Inspector(s) shall have the duty under this chapter to:
   (A)   Inspect, or cause to be inspected, as often as may be necessary, all
residential, institutional, assembly, commercial, industrial, garage, special,
or miscellaneous occupancy buildings for the purpose of determining whether any
conditions exist that render such place to be a dangerous building when he or
she has reasonable grounds to believe that any such building is dangerous;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this chapter, and the Building Inspector determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that such building is dangerous;
   (C)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure reported by the Fire or
Police Departments of this city as probably existing in violation of this
chapter;
   (D)   Notify the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, and all other
persons having an interest in the building or structure, as shown by the land
records of the County Recorder of Deeds, of any building or structure found by
him or her to be a dangerous building or structure within the standards set
forth in §
151.02. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given either by personal
service or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or if service cannot be
made by either of these modes of service, then service may be had by
publication in a newspaper qualified to publish legal notices for two
consecutive weeks. The notice required shall state that:
      (1)   The owner must vacate, vacate and repair, or vacate and demolish
said building and clean up the lot or property on which the building is located
in accordance with the terms of the notice and this chapter;
      (2)   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession; and
      (3)   The mortgagee, agent, or other persons having an interest in said
building as shown by the land records of the County Recorder of Deeds may, at
his or her own risk, repair, vacate, or demolish the building and clean up the
property or have such work done; provided, that any person notified under this
division (D) to repair, vacate, or demolish any building or clean up the
property shall be given such reasonable time not exceeding 30 days to commence
the required work.
   (E)   The notice provided for in this section shall state a description of
the building or structure deemed dangerous, a statement of the particulars that
make the building or structure a dangerous building, a statement indicating
that as a dangerous building, said building or structure constitutes a nuisance
and an order requiring the designated work to be commenced within the time
provided for in division (D) above;
   (F)   Report in writing to the City Building Commissioner the non-compliance
with any notice to vacate, repair, demolish, clean up the property, or upon the
failure to proceed continuously with the work without unnecessary delay;
   (G)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the Building Commissioner and
testify as to the condition of dangerous buildings; and
   (H)   Immediately report to the Building Commissioner concerning any
building found by him or her to be inherently dangerous and that he or she
determined to be a nuisance per se.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner may direct that such building be marked
or posted with a written notice reading substantially as follows:
“This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Building
Inspector. This notice is to remain on this building and/or property until it
is repaired, vacated, or demolished and the property is cleaned up in
accordance with the notice that has been given the owner, occupant, lessee,
mortgagee, or agent of this building, and all other persons having an interest
in said building as shown by the land records of the Recorder of Deeds of
Cooper County. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such notice is
complied with.”
      (2)   Provided however, that the order by the Building Commissioner and
the posting of said notice shall not be construed to deprive all persons
entitled thereto by this chapter to the notice and hearing prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 505.060)
§ 151.07 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor shall act as Building Commissioner under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 505.070)
§ 151.08 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the powers and duties pursuant to this
chapter to:
   (A)   Supervise all inspections required by this chapter, and cause the
Building Inspector to make inspections and perform all the duties required of
him or her by this chapter. Upon receiving a complaint or report from any
source, that a dangerous building exists in the city, the Building Commissioner
shall cause an inspection to be made forthwith. If the Building Commissioner
deems it necessary to the performance of his or her duties and responsibilities
imposed herein, the Building Commissioner may request an inspection and report
be made by any other city department or retain services of an expert whenever
the Building Commissioner deems such service necessary;
   (B)   Upon receipt of a report from the Building Inspector indicating
failure by the owner, lessee, occupant, mortgagee, agent or other persons(s)
having an interest in said building to commence work of reconditioning or
demolition within the time specified by this chapter or upon failure to proceed
continuously with work without unnecessary delay, hold a hearing giving the
affected parties full and adequate hearing on the matter;
   (C)   Give written notice of said hearing, either by personal service or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or if service cannot be had by either
of those modes of service then, by publication in a newspaper qualified to
publish legal notices, at least ten days in advance of the hearing date, to the
owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons having an
interest in said building as shown by the land records of the recorder of deeds
of the county, who may appear before the Building Commissioner on the date
specified in the notice to show cause why the building or structure reported to
be a dangerous building should not be repaired, vacated or demolished in
accordance with the statement of particulars set forth in the Building
Inspector’s notice as provided herein. Any party may be represented by counsel
and all parties shall have an opportunity to be heard;
   (D)   Make written findings of fact from the evidence offered at said
hearing as to whether or not the building in question is a dangerous building
within the terms of §
151.02 of this chapter;
   (E)   If the evidence supports a finding based upon competent and
substantial evidence that the building or structure is a dangerous building,
and a nuisance and detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
residents of the city, the Building Commissioner shall issue an order based
upon its findings of fact commanding the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee,
agent or other persons(s) having an interest in said building as shown by the
land records of the recorder of deeds of the county to repair, vacate or
demolish any building found to be a dangerous building and to clean up the
property, provided that any person so notified shall have the privilege of
either repairing or vacating and repairing said building, if such repair will
comply with the ordinances of this city or may vacate and demolish said
dangerous building at his or her own risk to prevent the acquiring by the city
of the lien against the land where the dangerous building stands. If the
evidence does not support a finding that a building or structure is a dangerous
building, or a nuisance or detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
residents of the city, no order shall be issued; and
   (F)   If the owner, occupant, mortgagee or lessee fails to comply with the
order within 30 days, the Building Commissioner shall cause such building or
structure to be repaired, vacated or demolished and the property cleaned up as
the facts may warrant. If the Building Commissioner or other designated officer
or officers issues an order whereby the building or structure is demolished,
secured, or repaired, or the property is cleaned up, the cost of performance
shall be certified to the City Clerk or officer in charge of finance, who shall
cause a special tax bill or assessment therefor against the property to be
prepared and collected by the City Collector or other official collecting
taxes, unless the building or structure is demolished, secured or repaired by a
contractor pursuant to an order issued by the city and such contractor files a
mechanic’s lien against the property where the dangerous building is located.
The contractor may enforce this lien as provided in RSMo. §§ 429.010 to
429.360. Except as provided in §
151.09, at the request of the taxpayer the tax bill may be paid in installments
over a period of not more than ten years. The tax bill from the date of its
issuance shall be deemed a personal debt against the property owner and shall
also be a lien on the property until paid. Said tax bill or assessment shall
bear interest at a rate of 8% per annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 505.080)
§ 151.09 INSURANCE PROCEEDS; HOW HANDLED.
   (A)   If there are proceeds of any insurance policy based upon a covered
claim payment made for damage or loss to a building or other structure caused
by or arising out of any fire, explosion or other casualty loss, the following
procedure is established for the payment of up to 25% of the insurance
proceeds, as set forth in this section. This section shall apply only to a
covered claim payment that is in excess of 50% of the face value of file policy
covering a building or other structure.
      (1)   The insurer shall withhold from the covered claim payment up to 25%
of the covered claim payment, and shall pay such monies to the city to deposit
into an interest-bearing account. Any named mortgages on the insurance policy
shall maintain priority over any obligation under this chapter.
      (2)   The city shall release the proceeds and any interest that has
accrued on such proceeds received under subsection (1) of this section to the
insured or as the terms of the policy and endorsements thereto provide within
30 days after receipt of such insurance monies, unless the city has instituted
legal proceedings under the provisions of division (F) of §
151.08. If the city has proceeded under the provisions of division (F) of §
151.08, all monies in excess of that necessary to comply with the provisions of
division (F) of §
151.08 for the removal, securing, repair and clean up of the building or
structure and the lot on which it is located, less salvage value, shall be paid
to the insured.
   (B)   If there are no proceeds of any insurance policy as set forth in
division (A) of this section, at the request of the taxpayer, the tax bill may
be paid in installments over a period of not more than ten years. The tax bill
from the date of its issuance shall be a lien on the property and a personal
debt against the property owner(s) until paid.
   (C)   This section shall apply to fire, explosion or other casualty loss
claims arising on all buildings and structures.
   (D)   This section does not make the city a party to any insurance contract,
and the insurer is not liable to any party for any amount in excess of the
process otherwise payable under its insurance policy.
   (E)   The Building Commissioner may certify that, in lieu of payment of all
or part of the covered claim payment under division (A) above, that it has
obtained satisfactory proof that the insured has removed or will remove the
debris and repair, rebuild, or otherwise make the premises safe and secure. In
this event, the Building Commissioner shall issue a certificate within 30 days
after receipt of proof to permit covered claim payment to the insured without
the deduction pursuant to division (A) above. It shall be the obligation of the
insured or other person making the claim to provide the insurance company with
the written certificate provided for in this division (E).
(Prior Code, § 505.090)
§ 151.10 APPEAL.
   Any owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, or any other person(s) having
an interest in a dangerous building, as shown by the land records of the County
Recorder of Deeds, may appeal such decision to the County Circuit Court, as
provided for in RSMo. §§ 536.100 to 536.140, if a proper record, as defined in
RSMo. § 536.130, is maintained of the hearing provided for in §
151.08. Otherwise, the appeal shall be made pursuant to the procedures provided
for in RSMo. § 536.150.
(Prior Code, § 505.100)
§ 151.11 EMERGENCIES.
   In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the
health, life, safety, or welfare of any person unless a dangerous building, as
defined herein, is immediately repaired, vacated, or demolished and the
property is cleaned up, the Building Inspector shall report such facts to the
Building Commissioner and the Building Commissioner may cause the immediate
repair, vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building. The costs of such
emergency repair, vacation, or demolition of such dangerous building shall be
collected in the same manner as provided in §§
151.08 and
151.09.
(Prior Code, § 505.110)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   The owner, occupant, or lessee in possession of any dangerous building who
shall fail to comply with the order to repair, vacate, or demolish said
building given by the Building Commissioner or who shall fail to proceed
continuously without unnecessary delay; and any person removing any notices
provided for in this chapter; and any person violating any other provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not more than $500. Each day that a person fails to comply with
an order of the Building Commissioner may be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 505.120)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Location outside mobile home parks
   
152.03   Moving mobile homes, manufactured homes, or modular units into the
city
   
152.04   Permits; construction, altering, or extending
   
152.05   Licenses
   
152.06   Inspection
   
152.07   Notices, hearing, and orders
   
152.08   Environmental, open space
   
152.09   Water supply
   
152.10   Sewage disposal
   
152.11   Electrical distribution system
   
152.12   Service buildings and other service facilities
   
152.13   Refuse handling
   
152.14   Insect and rodent control
   
152.15   Fuel supply and storage
   
152.16   Fire protection
   
152.17   Miscellaneous requirements
   
152.18   Conflict of ordinances; effect of partial invalidity
Fire Safety and Public Health Standards
   
152.30   Definitions
   
152.31   Construction standards
   
152.32   Foundation requirements
   
152.33   Parking
   
152.34   Spacing and access
   
152.35   Compliance with state law
   
152.36   Utilities
   
152.37   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a mobile
home lot or used for common access to a small group of lots or facilities.
   LICENSE. A written license issued by the municipality.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built structure or structures, in the traveling
mode, are eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length
or, when erected on site contains 320 or more square feet and equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units with or without a permanent foundation. The phrase WITHOUT A PERMANENT
FOUNDATION indicates that the support system is constructed with the intent
that the MANUFACTURED HOME placed thereon may be moved from time to time at the
convenience of the owner.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-
round occupancy containing the same water supply, waste disposal, and
electrical convenience as immobile housing.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of one single- or
double-wide mobile home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been developed for
the placement of two or more mobile homes and is owned by an individual, a
firm, trust, partnership, public or private association, or corporation.
   MODULAR UNIT. A transportable building unit designed to be used by itself or
to be incorporated with similar units at a point of use into a modular
structure to be used for residential, commercial, educational, or industrial
purposes. This definition shall apply to structures under 650 square feet used
temporarily and exclusively for construction site office purposes.
   MUNICIPAL OFFICIAL. The authorized representative of the City of Otterville,
Missouri.
   PARK STREET. A private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots or auxiliary buildings.
   PARK TRAILER. A modular type unit built on a single chassis mounted on
wheels, designed primarily as temporary living quarters for seasonal or
destination camping and having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square
feet and not less than 240 square feet in a set up mode.
   PERMIT. A written permit issued by the municipality permitting the
construction, alteration, and extension of a mobile home park under the
provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private
association, or corporation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular type unit primarily designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
   SEAL. A device, label, or insignia issued by the state’s Public Service
Commission, United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, or its
agent, to be displayed on the exterior of the manufactured home, recreational
vehicle, or modular unit to evidence compliance with the code.
   SET UP. The operations performed at the occupancy site which render a
manufactured home or modular unit fit for habitation, which operations include,
but are not limited to, moving, blocking, leveling, supporting, and assembling
multiple or expandable units.
   SEWER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewage system serving the mobile home
park.
   SEWER RISER PIPE. The portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically
to the ground elevation and terminates at each mobile home space.
   TRAILER SPACE. A parcel of land in a trailer parking area for the placement
of a single trailer and its accessory structures.
   WATER CONNECTION. The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings, and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the mobile home or trailer.
   WATER RISER PIPE. The portion of the water supply system serving the mobile
home park parking areas, which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each mobile home lot or each trailer space.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005)
§ 152.02 LOCATION OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, within the limits of the city, for any reason to
park any trailer, mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit on any
street, alley, or highway, or other public place, or on any tract of land owned
by a person, occupied or unoccupied, within the city except as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer, mobile home, manufactured
home, or modular unit on the premises of any occupied dwelling.
   (C)   No person shall park or occupy any trailer, mobile home, manufactured
home, or modular unit on any lot of less than 5,165 square feet with a minimum
lot width of 45 feet unless located in a mobile home park.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 MOVING MOBILE HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOMES, OR MODULAR UNITS INTO THE
CITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move or to cause to be moved
into the city any mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit, except for
the purpose of sale by a licensed dealer, until a permit therefor has been
obtained from the Board of Aldermen as herein provided.
   (B)   An application for a permit to move a mobile home, manufactured home,
or modular unit in the city shall include the names and addresses of the
applicants, the names and addresses of the owners of the mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular unit, the proposed location for the mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular unit, the names and addresses of the owners of
the real estate of such proposed location, satisfactory proof that the mobile
home, manufactured home, or modular unit meets the fire safety and public
health standards of §§
152.30 to
152.37.
   (C)   In determining whether or not to issue a permit for a mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular unit, the Board of Aldermen shall consider if the
mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit will be in harmony with the
development of the city, whether the mobile home, manufactured home, or modular
unit meets the standards required herein, and whether a safe and healthful
living environment will exist for the occupants of the said mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular unit at the proposed location.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a mobile home,
manufactured home, or modular unit to occupy or permit any person to occupy as
a residence any mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit until the
mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit has been issued an occupancy
permit by the City Clerk. The City Clerk shall issue an occupancy permit only
after the mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit has been set up on
the premises and an inspection has been completed by authorized city personnel
determining compliance with all provisions of this chapter as relates to the
mobile home, manufactured home, or modular unit.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PERMITS; CONSTRUCTION, ALTERING, OR EXTENDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or extend any
mobile home park within the corporate limits of the city unless he or she holds
a valid permit issued by the Mayor in the name of such person for the specific
construction, alteration, or extension proposed.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Mayor and shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Interest of the applicant in the mobile home park;
      (3)   Location and legal description of the mobile home park; and
      (4)   Compliance engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
park showing, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The area and dimensions of the tract of land;
         (b)   The number, location, and size of all lots;
         (c)   The location of service buildings and any other proposed
structures;
         (d)   The location and width of roadways and walkways;
         (e)   The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
         (f)   Plans and specifications of the water supply, refuse, and sewage
disposal facilities;
         (g)   Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the mobile home park; and
         (h)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
   (C)   All applications shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of $500
for mobile home parks.
   (D)   When upon review of the application, the Mayor is satisfied that the
proposed plan meets the requirements of this subchapter, a permit shall be
issued.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a permit under this subchapter has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Board of Aldermen under the procedure provided by §
152.07.
(Prior Code, § 510.040) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mobile home park
within the limits of the city unless he or she holds a valid license issued
annually by the Mayor in the name of such person for the specific mobile home
park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the Mayor who shall issue
a license upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Every person holding a license shall give notice in writing to the
Mayor within 48 hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise
disposed of interest in or control of any mobile home park. Such notice shall
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for transfer of
the license and deposit of a fee of $12.50, the license shall be transferred if
the mobile home park is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Application for original licenses shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant, as to the truth of the
application and by the deposit of a fee of $12.50, and shall contain: the name
and address of the applicant; the location and legal description of the mobile
home or travel trailer park; and a site plan of the mobile home park showing
all lots, structures, roads, walkways, and other service facilities.
   (D)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by the
holders of the licenses and shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of
$12.50, and shall contain any change in the information submitted since the
original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (E)   Any person whose application for a license under this subchapter has
been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Board of Aldermen, under the procedure provided by §
152.07.
   (F)   Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home park, the Mayor finds
that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of
this subchapter or regulations issued hereunder, the Mayor shall give notice in
writing in accordance with §
152.07 to the person to whom the license was issued that unless such conditions
or practices are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the
notice by the Mayor, the license shall be suspended. At the end of such period,
the Mayor shall reinspect such mobile home park and, if such conditions or
practices have not been corrected, he or she shall suspend the license and give
notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license is
issued. Upon receipt of notice of such suspension, such person shall cease
operation of such mobile home park except as provided in §
152.07.
(Prior Code, § 510.050) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 INSPECTION.
   The Mayor shall have the power to enter at reasonable times upon any private
or public property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this subchapter. (Prior Code, § 510.060) (Ord.
192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.07 NOTICES, HEARING, AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor determines that there is reasonable ground to
believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this subchapter,
the Mayor shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the
permit or license was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reason for its issuance;
      (3)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of
this state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in connection
with the enforcement of any provision of this subchapter may request and shall
be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of Aldermen; provided, that
such person file in the office of the Mayor a written petition requesting such
hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor within ten
days after the day the notice is served. The filing of the request for a
hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and of the suspension, except in
the case of an order issued under division (E) below. Upon receipt of such
petition, the Mayor shall set a time and place for such hearing and shall give
the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such notice should be modified
or withdrawn. The hearing shall be commenced not later than ten days after the
day on which the petition was filed; provided, that upon application of the
petitioner, the Mayor may postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable
time beyond such ten-day period when in his or her judgment the petitioner has
submitted good and sufficient reasons for such postponement.
   (C)   After such hearing, the Board of Aldermen shall make finding as to
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and shall issue an order in
writing sustaining, modifying, or withdrawing the notice, which shall be served
as provided in division (A) above. Upon failure to comply with any order
sustaining or modifying a notice, the license of the mobile home park affected
by the order shall be revoked.
   (D)   The proceedings at such a hearing, including the findings and decision
of the Board of Aldermen, and together with a copy of every notice and order
related thereto, shall be entered as a matter of public record in the office of
the Board of Aldermen but the transcript of the proceedings need not be
transcribed unless judicial review of the decision is sought as provided by
this section. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Aldermen may
seek relief therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction, as provided by
the laws of this state.
   (E)   Whenever the Mayor finds that an emergency exists which requires
immediate action to protect the public health, he or she may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an emergency and
requiring that such action be taken as he or she may deem necessary to meet the
emergency, including the suspension of the permit or license. Notwithstanding
any other provisions of this subchapter, such order shall be effective
immediately. Any person to whom such an order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately, but, upon petition to the Mayor, shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible. The provisions of divisions (A) and (D) above
shall be applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 510.070) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.08 ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Conditions of soil, ground water level, drainage, and topography
shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety of the
occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise, odors,
or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/or
sudden flooding, subsidence, or erosion shall be used for any purpose which
would expose persons or property to hazards.
      (2)   Each lot provided for the occupancy of a single mobile home unit
shall have an area of not less than 4,500 square feet and a width of not less
than 45 feet, and no park shall be permitted an average density of mobile home
lots of more than eight per acre, and each mobile home park shall provide an
area of not less than ten acres.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall provide lots sufficient in size that no
mobile home or any structure, addition, or appurtenance thereto is located less
than ten feet from the nearest adjacent court boundary.
      (4)   Space between mobile homes may be used for the parking of motor
vehicles if the space is clearly designated and the vehicle is parked at least
ten feet from the nearest adjacent park boundary.
      (5)   The mobile home park shall be surrounded by a landscaped strip of
open space 50 feet wide along a major street or highway and 25 feet wide along
all other lot lines or street frontage.
   (B)   Surface requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every
mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone screenings or other solid
material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust.
   (C)   Grading requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every mobile
home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe,
efficient manner.
   (D)   Distance from parking areas. All trailers shall be located at least 25
feet from any parking area boundary line abutting upon a public street or
highway.
   (E)   Separation of buildings or structures.
      (1)   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other
buildings and structures by at least 20 feet; provided, that mobile homes
placed end-to-end may have a clearance of 15 feet where opposing rear walls are
staggered.
      (2)   An accessory structure which has a horizontal area exceeding 25
square feet, is attached to a mobile home, and has an opaque top or roof that
is higher than the nearest window shall, for purposes of all separation
requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
   (F)   Separation from park property and commercial uses.
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any park
property boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway, and at least
15 feet from other park property boundary lines.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum distance of 15 feet between an individual
mobile home and adjoining pavement of a park street, or common parking area or
other common areas.
      (3)   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial
land uses shall be provided with screening, such as fences or natural growth,
along the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent non-
residential uses.
      (4)   All mobile homes shall be set back not less than 150 feet from a
sewage lagoon or drain field from a sewage treatment system.
   (G)   Streets.
      (1)   Pavement. All streets shall be provided with a smooth, hard, and
dense surface which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of
the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained free of cracks, holes, and other hazards.
      (2)   Grades. Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but shall be not more than 8%. Short run with a
maximum grade of 12% may be permitted, provided traffic safety is assured by
appropriate paving, adequate leveling areas, and avoidance of lateral curves.
      (3)   Intersections. Within 100 feet of an intersection, streets shall be
at approximately right angles. A distance of at least 150 feet shall be
maintained between centerlines of offset intersecting streets. Intersections of
more than two streets at one point shall be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 510.080) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.09 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General regulations concerning water supply.
      (1)   The water supply system of the mobile home parking area shall be
connected by pipes to all buildings and other facilities requiring water.
      (2)   All water piping, fixtures, and other equipment shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local regulations and
requirements and shall be of a type and in locations approved by the state’s
Division of Health.
      (3)   The water piping system shall not be connected with non-potable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back siphonage.
      (4)   The system shall be so designed and maintained as to provide a
pressure of not less than 20 pounds per square inch, under normal operating
conditions, at service buildings and other locations requiring potable water
supply.
   (B)   Location of riser pipes. Riser pipes provided for individual water
service connections shall be located within the confined area of the mobile
home stand at a point where the water connection will approximate a vertical
position.
   (C)   Height of riser pipes. Water riser pipes shall extend at least four
inches above ground elevation. The pipe size shall be at least three-quarter
inch. The water outlet shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the
lot.
   (D)   Freeze prevention. Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent
freezing of service lines, valves, and riser pipes.
   (E)   Valve regulations. Underground stop and waste valves shall not be
installed on any water service.
(Prior Code, § 510.090) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.10 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be
free of breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from
the water supply system at a safe distance. Sewer shall be at a grade which
will ensure a velocity of two feet per second when flowing full. All sewer
lines shall be constructed of materials approved by the health authority, shall
be adequately vented, and shall have watertight joints.
   (B)   If facilities for individual sewer connections are provided, the
following requirements shall apply.
      (1)   The sewer riser pipe shall have at least a four-inch diameter,
shall be trapped below the ground surface, and shall be so located on the
trailer space that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      (2)   The sewer connection shall have a nominal inside diameter of at
least three inches, and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-
fourth inch per foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipe only
without any branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
      (3)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be corrosive
resistant, non-absorbent, and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      (4)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
mobile home does not occupy the space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away
from the riser.
      (5)   All septic tanks now in use or hereafter to be constructed shall
comply with the following requirements and specifications: single-family units
a tank of 500 gallon capacity shall be required, and a single-family unit shall
be taken and deemed to include a home, habitation, or other place used by
person or persons not exceeding five in number. The subsurface disposal field
shall contain a minimum seepage area of at least 250 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 510.100) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.11 ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of
wiring, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances which shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with the National Electrical Code.
   (B)   Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at least
18 feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of
three feet between overhead wiring and any mobile home, service building, or
other structure.
   (C)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18
inches below the ground surface and shall be insulated and specially designed
for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas, or communication lines.
   (D)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved disconnecting
device and overcurrent protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet
shall be 120/240 volts AC, 100 amperes.
   (E)   Outlet receptacles shall be located not more than 25 feet from the
overcurrent protective devices in the mobile home and a three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of weatherproof construction
and configurations shall be in accordance with American Standard Outlet
Receptacle C-73.1.
   (F)   The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet receptacle by an
approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment plug.
   (G)   All exposed non-current carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all
other equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor
with branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic
wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for
mobile homes.
(Prior Code, § 510.110) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.12 SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to furnish temporary facilities for accommodating
a travel trailer rally or other group of trailers assembled for the purpose of
traveling together shall make application for such activity to the Mayor. The
requirements for a service building and other sanitary and physical facilities
may be waived by the health authority on the determination that public health
will not be endangered, but the location of the site, the facilities which are
provided, and the method for conducting such rally shall be acceptable to the
health authority before a special license shall be issued specifying the
location of the site, the period of operation not to exceed ten days, and any
conditions of issuance.
   (B)   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, and wood-burning stoves
shall be so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize fire
hazard and smoke nuisance both on the property on which used and on neighboring
property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No
open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material
burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Prior Code, § 510.120) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.13 REFUSE HANDLING.
   (A)   The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in mobile home parking
area shall be so conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
   (B)   All refuse shall be stored in fly-tight, water-tight, rodent-proof
containers, which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home
lot. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse.
   (C)   Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers.
Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration, and facilitate
cleaning around them.
   (D)   All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least once weekly.
Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal or private
agencies, the owner or operator of the mobile home park shall provide this
service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or
covered containers.
(Prior Code, § 510.130) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.14 INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Grounds, buildings, and structures shall be maintained free of insect
and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination methods and other measures
to control insects and rodents shall conform with the requirements of the
municipality.
   (B)   Parking areas shall be maintained free of accumulations of debris
which may provide rodent harboring or breeding places for flies, mosquitoes,
and other pests.
   (C)   Storage areas shall be maintained as to prevent rodent harborage;
lumber, pipe, and other building material shall be stored at least one foot
above the ground.
   (D)   Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation exists, all
exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be appropriately screened
with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   (E)   The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall be controlled to prevent
harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious insects. Parking areas shall be
so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak,
poison sumac, and other noxious weeds considered detrimental to health. Open
areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth of any description.
(Prior Code, § 510.140) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.15 FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Natural gas system.
      (1)   Natural gas piping systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   Each mobile home lot provided with piped gas shall have an approved
manual shutoff valve installed upstream of the gas outlet. The outlet shall be
equipped with an approved cap to prevent accidental discharge of gas when the
outlet is not in use.
   (B)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems.
      (1)   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
      (3)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off
gas. Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be
maintained in effective operating condition.
      (4)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported
and protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquefied petroleum gas in
liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in
mobile homes.
      (5)   Liquefied petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot
shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened to prevent accidental
overturning. Such containers shall not be less than 12 nor more than 60 U.S.
gallons gross capacity.
      (6)   No liquified petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside
or beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home, or any other structure
unless such installations are approved by the municipality.
   (C)   Fuel oil supply system.
      (1)   All fuel oil supply systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
      (2)   All piping from outside fuel storage tanks or cylinders to mobile
homes shall be permanently installed and securely fastened in place.
      (3)   All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be securely fastened
in place and shall not be located inside or beneath any mobile home, or less
than five feet from any mobile home exit.
      (4)   Storage tanks located in areas subject to traffic shall be
protected against physical damage.
(Prior Code, § 510.150) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.16 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the rules and regulations of the
city fire prevention authority.
   (B)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish, and other
flammable materials.
   (C)   Fires shall be made only in stoves and other equipment intended for
such purposes.
(Prior Code, § 510.160) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.17 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this subchapter and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities, and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this subchapter and inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this subchapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   (C)   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile home
on its stand, which includes securing its stability and installing all utility
connections.
   (D)   The park management shall maintain a register containing the names of
all park occupants identified by lot number or street address. Such register
shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the park.
   (E)   The park management shall notify the health authority immediately of
any suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.
   (F)   The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of
this subchapter and shall maintain his or her mobile home lot, its facilities,
and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (G)   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his or
her mobile home on its stand and proper installation of all utility connections
in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
   (H)   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall not be prohibited to run at
large or to commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home lot.
   (I)   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his or her rubbish
and garbage in a clean, sanitary, and safe manner. The garbage container shall
be rodent-proof, insect-proof, and water-tight.
   (J)   A mobile home shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes unless it is
properly placed on a proper foundation and connected to water, sewerage, and
electrical utilities.
(Prior Code, § 510.170) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
§ 152.18 CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES; EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY.
   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any other ordinance or code of this city existing on the
effective date of this subchapter, December 15, 1977, the provision which, in
the judgment of the Mayor, established the higher standard for the promotion
and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any
case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other ordinance or code of this city existing on the effective
date of this subchapter, December 15, 1977, which establishes a lower standard
for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, the
provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other
ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they
may be found in conflict with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 510.190) (Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977)
FIRE SAFETY AND PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS
§ 152.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built structure or structures which, in the
traveling mode, are eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length or, when erected on site, contain 320 or more square feet, equipped with
the necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a
unit or units with or without a permanent foundation. The phrase WITHOUT A
PERMANENT FOUNDATION indicates that the support system is constructed with the
intent that the manufactured home placed thereon may be moved from time to time
at the convenience of the owner.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, factory-built home designed to be used as a
residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., which became effective June 15, 1976.
   MODULAR UNIT. A transportable building unit designed to be used by itself or
to be incorporated with similar units at a point-of-use into a modular
structure to be used for residential, commercial, educational, or industrial
purposes. This definition shall not apply to structures under 650 square feet
used temporarily and exclusively for construction site office purposes.
   PARK TRAILER. A modular-type unit built on a single chassis mounted on
wheels, designed primarily as temporary living quarters for seasonal or
destination camping and having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square
feet and not less than 240 square feet in the setup mode.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, or legal entity.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type unit primarily designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle.
   SEAL. A device, label, or insignia issued by the state’s Public Service
Commission, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, or its agent, to
be displayed on the exterior of the manufactured home, recreational vehicle, or
modular unit to evidence compliance with the code.
   SETUP. The operations performed at the occupancy site which render a
manufactured home or modular unit fit for habitation, which operations include,
but are not limited to, moving, blocking, leveling, supporting, and assembling
multiple or expandable units.
(Prior Code, § 510.200) (Ord. 293, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 152.31 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All manufactured homes and modular units must be constructed according
to the standards established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for constructing such structures and shall bear a seal issued by
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development as required by the RSMo.
Chapter 700, prior to any such structure being set up in the corporate limits
of the city.
   (B)   All mobile homes must be constructed according to the standards
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for
constructing manufactured homes and modular units and shall have a seal of
approval by the state’s Public Service Commission indicating that repairs and
construction to said mobile home have been completed to make it comply with
said standards. Mobile homes cannot be more than five years old and owner must
have proof of the manufacturer’s date.
   (C)   All manufactured homes, modular homes, and mobile homes must have
entry ways built in a stable and safe manner. All entryways and decks must be a
minimum of four feet by six feet wide with safety railings.
   (D)   All manufactured home, modular units, and mobile homes must comply
with the following:
      (1)   Have a pitched roof of no less than three inches of vertical rise
to each 12 inches of horizontal run;
      (2)   Have roofing materials consisting of composition asphalt shingle,
fiberglass shingle, wood shake, baked tile, or crushed rock;
      (3)   Have siding material consisting of wood or wood products, stucco,
brick, horizontal lap steel or aluminum, horizontal lap vinyl, or rock;
      (4)   Have proper guttering attached; and
      (5)   The hitch, tongue, and axles must be removed.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005)
§ 152.32 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All manufacture homes, modular units, and mobile homes set up in the
corporate limits of the city measuring 16 feet by 80 feet or more shall be set
on a permanent foundation meeting the following requirements.
      (1)   All exterior walls must be securely attached to a concrete
foundation extending to a minimum of 36 inches below the surface of the ground
or below the frost level, whichever is deepest.
      (2)   The foundation described in division (A)(1) above shall consist of
a minimum of a one foot, eight inch spread footing at the deepest point with
No. 4 rebar for reinforcement. From the surface of the ground to the point of
connection to the manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home, the concrete
wall shall be a minimum of eight inches in width with No. 4 rebar extending to
within three and one-half inches from the top of said foundation as fully
described.
      (3)   The concrete walls extending from the surface of the ground to the
point of connection to the base of the mobile home, manufactured home, or
modular unit shall contain a ventilation port on each exterior wall with said
ventilation port being a minimum of 12 inches in width and eight inches in
height. If one of these ventilation ports does not provide easy human access to
the crawl space, then access must be provided to the crawl space from within
the structure of the manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home. The crawl
space must be a minimum of three feet above the footing.
   (B)   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes that measure
less than 16 by 80 feet shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall be placed on a solid concrete slab the size of the home or
unit, a minimum of six inches thick, reinforced with wire or rebar on 18-inch
centers. If wire is used, it must be wire mesh six by six. If rebar on 18-inch
centers is used, it should be #4 rebar. Slab should be plus or minus one inch
of being level. Footing for the slab to be 14 inches below the top of the slab
and at least 18 inches wide; and
      (2)   Properly skirted with a metal or vinyl skirt complimentary to the
mobile home and its surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005)
§ 152.33 PARKING.
   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes set up in the
corporate limits of the city shall provide at least one off-street parking
space on the lot on which said structure is set up to be used by the resident
of said structure or his or her guests. Such parking spaces shall have an area
of not less than 200 square feet, exclusive of space necessary to provide
access to a street.
(Prior Code, § 510.240) (Ord. 293, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 152.34 SPACING AND ACCESS.
   No manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home shall be set up within
the corporate limits of the city unless it is placed upon a city lot a minimum
of 45 feet in width, and unless it is set up and maintained a minimum distance
of 45 feet from any permanent structure which is not attached to the
manufactured home, modular unit, or mobile home and 20 feet from any adjoining
property line.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005)
§ 152.35 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   All manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes must be set up and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of RSMo. Chapter 700, which are
not in direct conflict with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 510.260) (Ord. 293, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 152.36 UTILITIES.
   (A)   No manufactured homes, modular units, and mobile homes shall be hooked
up to city utilities until all required fees are paid and it has been inspected
by and received approval from the Mayor as being in compliance with this
subchapter and RSMo. Chapter 700. The Mayor may designate or appoint a Special
Building Inspector to act in his or her absence.
   (B)   This inspection shall be done within 30 days from the date of delivery
of the manufactured home, modular units or mobile home within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 510.270) (Ord. 293, passed 5-19-1999)
§ 152.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the terms of this
subchapter or to interfere with the Mayor or Special Building Inspector in the
performance of his or her duties.
(Ord. 345, passed 7-2-2005) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provisions of §§
152.01 to
152.18 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor
more than $500; and each day’s failure of compliance with any such provision
shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 510.180)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
152.03 shall, upon conviction of the same, be punished by a fine not exceeding
$500 or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   Violators of §
152.36 are subject to a fine of $50 per day until said inspection is completed.
This fine shall be assessed to the owner of the manufactured home, modular
unit, or mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 510.270)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating or permitting the violation of any other
provision of §§
152.30 to
152.37 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be fined
not less than $50 or not more than $500 for each violation, or confined for a
period of not more than 90 days or punished by both such fine and imprisonment;
provided, that each days violation thereof shall be a separate offense for the
purpose hereof.
      (2)   Violations of §§
152.30 to
152.37 shall not require any particular state of mind on part of the defendant,
it being the intent to make all such violations of the subchapter strict
liability offense.
(Ord. 192, passed 12-15-1977; Ord. 293, passed 5-19-1999; Ord. 345, passed 7-2-
2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Revised Statutes of Missouri
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO REVISED STATUTES OF MISSOURI
RSMo. Cites Code Section
RSMo. Cites             Code Section
32.091(4)               71.046
                        30.01,
Chapter 44              30.03,
                        30.05
70.815                  37.03
84.340                  130.058
92.040                  112.09
92.086                  111.15
94.270                  110.06
105.300 through 105.445 34.001
105.390                 34.001
Chapter 115             31.01
115.125.1               31.05
144.010 to 144.525      36.065
Chapter 195             130.100
195.005 to 195.425      130.100,
                        130.103
195.010                 93.06,
                        130.103
195.030                 130.100
195.253                 130.005
211.031(1)(1)(c)        130.005
211.031(1)(2)(d)        130.005
211.031(1)(3)           130.005
215.201                 111.25
217.710                 130.058
260.200 to 260.245      50.05
260.360 to 260.432      50.01
273.030                 90.14
Chapter 300             70.01
Chapter 301             71.101
301.010                 74.074
301.071                 76.030
301.130                 71.031
301.130(5)              71.025
301.140                 71.025
301.142                 76.030
301.210                 71.029
301.218                 91.23
301.560                 91.23
302.010 to 302.780      71.022
302.015                 71.023
302.173                 71.021
302.177                 113.07
302.181                 113.07,
                        113.08
302.341                 71.046
302.720                 71.021
303.025                 71.046
303.230                 71.045
303.240                 71.045
Chapter 304             71.083
304.010                 91.15
304.022                 72.09
304.027                 74.999
304.044                 74.057
304.050 to 304.070      74.055
304.151                 91.18
304.153.5               91.21
304.153.6               91.21
304.155 to 304.158      91.22
304.155.1               91.19
304.155.3               91.19
304.155.11              91.21
304.156.2               91.22
304.157.1               91.20
304.157.2               91.20
304.157.4 to 304.157.9  91.20
304.158.1               91.21
304.158.5               91.21
304.158.6               91.22
304.158.10              91.22
304.159                 91.17
307.020 to 307.120      78.25
307.179                 78.27
307.360                 78.25
                        113.05,
Chapter 311             113.09,
                        113.10
311.060(4)              113.01
311.095(2)              113.01
319.200 through 319.207 150.01
393.275                 111.03
429.010 to 429.360      151.08
479.353 through 479.530 74.999
488.010 to 488.020      74.999
488.012(6)              35.02
488.020                 35.02
488.027                 35.02
488.5334                35.02
488.5335                35.02
488.5336                35.02
488.5339                35.02
Chapter 536             113.11
536.100 to 536.140      151.10
536.130                 151.10
536.150                 151.10
556.061(32)             74.070
575.060                 91.20
Chapter 577             35.02
577.020 to 577.041      74.072,
                        74.073
577.080                 91.16,
                        91.19
578.005 to 578.023      90.14
Chapter 579             130.100
Chapter 605             111.26
                        32.31,
Chapter 610             34.050,
                        34.051
650.010B(27)            111.27,
                        111.30
                        152.31,
Chapter 700             152.35,
                        152.36
700.010                 78.29
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2021 Code Section
Prior Code Section  2021 Code Section
100.010             10.30
100.020             10.31
100.030             10.01
100.040             10.02
100.050             10.03
100.060             10.04
100.070             10.05
100.080             10.06
100.090             10.07
100.100             10.08
100.110             10.09
100.120             10.10
100.130             10.11
100.140             10.12
100.150             10.13
100.160             10.14
100.170             10.15
100.180             10.16
100.190             10.17
100.200             10.18
100.210             10.19
105.010             31.01
105.030             31.02
105.040             31.03
105.050             31.04
105.060             31.05
110.020             32.02
110.030             32.03
110.040             32.04
110.050             32.05
110.060             32.06
110.070             32.07
110.080             32.08
110.090             32.09
110.100             32.10
110.110             32.11
110.120             32.12
110.130             32.13
110.140             32.14
110.150             32.15
110.160             32.16
110.180             32.31
110.190             32.32
110.200             32.33
110.210             32.34
115.010             33.001
115.020             33.002
115.030             33.003
115.040             33.004
115.050             33.005
115.060             33.006
115.070             33.007
115.080             33.008
115.090             33.020
115.100             33.035
115.110             33.050
115.120             33.051
115.130             33.052
115.140             33.053
115.150             33.065
115.160             33.080
115.170             33.081
130.010             36.001
130.015             36.015
130.020             36.016
130.030             36.017
130.040             36.018
130.050             36.019
130.060             36.030
130.070             36.031
130.080             36.032
130.090             36.033
130.110             36.045
130.120             36.046
130.170             36.047
130.180             36.048
130.190             36.049
130.200             36.050
130.210             36.051,
                    36.999
130.230             36.052
130.240             36.065
135.010             34.001
200.010             37.01
200.020             37.02
200.030             37.03
200.040             37.04,
                    37.99
205.010             90.01
205.020             90.03
205.025             90.04
205.030             90.05
205.040             90.06
205.050             90.07
205.060             90.08
205.070             90.09
205.090             90.11
205.095             90.12
205.100             90.13
205.110             90.14
205.130             90.16
210.010             130.001
210.020             130.002
210.030             130.003
210.040             130.004
210.050             130.005
210.060             130.020
210.070             130.021
210.080             130.022
210.090             130.023
210.100             130.024
210.110             130.025
210.120             130.026
210.130             130.027
210.140             130.028
210.150             130.029
210.160             130.040
210.170             130.041
210.190             130.042
210.200             130.043
210.210             130.055
210.220             130.056
210.230             130.057
210.240             130.058
210.250             130.059
210.260             130.060
210.270             130.061
210.280             130.062
210.290             130.075
210.300             130.076
210.310             130.077
210.320             130.078
210.330             130.079
210.340             130.080
210.350             130.081
210.360             130.082
210.370             130.083
210.390             130.084
210.400             130.135
210.440             130.104
210.450             130.105
210.460             130.106
210.470             130.107
210.480             130.120
210.510             130.121
210.520             130.136
210.530             130.137
210.540             130.138
210.550             130.139
210.560             130.140
210.570             130.141
210.580             130.142
210.590             130.143
210.600             130.144
215.010             91.01
215.020             91.02
215.040             91.35
215.045             91.36
220.010             93.01
220.020             93.02
220.030             93.03
220.040             93.04
220.050             93.05
220.060             93.06
225.010             30.01
225.020             30.02
225.030             30.03
225.040             30.04
225.050             30.05
225.060             30.06
225.070             30.07
225.080             30.08
225.090             30.09
230.010             50.01
230.020             50.02
230.030             50.03
230.040             50.04
230.050             50.05
230.060             50.06
230.070             50.07
230.080             50.08
230.090             50.09
230.100             50.10
300.010             70.01
300.020             70.02
305.010             71.001
305.020             71.002
305.030             71.003
305.040             71.004
305.050             71.005
305.060             71.006
305.070             71.007
305.080             71.008
310.010             72.01
310.020             72.02
310.030             72.03
310.040             72.04
310.050             72.06
310.060             72.07
310.070             72.08
310.080             72.09,
                    72.99
310.090             72.10
310.100             72.11
310.110             72.12
310.120             72.13
310.130             72.14
315.010             73.01
315.020             73.02
315.030             73.03
315.040             73.04
315.050             73.05
315.060             73.06
315.070             73.07
315.080             73.08
315.090             73.09
315.100             73.10
315.110             73.11
320.010             74.001
320.020             74.002
320.030             74.003
320.040             74.004
320.050             74.005
325.010             74.020
325.020             74.021
325.030             74.022
325.040             74.023
325.050             74.024
330.010             75.01
330.020             75.02
330.030             75.03
335.010             75.15
335.020             75.16
335.030             75.17
335.040             75.18
335.050             75.19
335.060             75.20
335.070             75.21
335.080             75.22
335.090             75.23
340.010             74.035
340.020             74.036
340.030             74.037
340.040             74.038
340.050             74.039
340.060             74.040
340.070             74.041
340.080             74.042
340.090             74.043
340.100             74.044
340.110             74.045
340.130             74.047
340.140             74.048
340.150             74.049
340.160             74.050
340.170             74.051
340.180             74.052
340.190             74.053
340.200             74.054
340.210             74.055
340.220             74.056
340.230             74.057
342.010             74.070
342.040             74.073
342.050             74.074
345.010             71.060
345.020             71.061
345.030             71.062
345.040             71.063
345.050             71.064
345.060             71.065
345.070             71.066
345.080             71.067
350.010             76.001
350.020             76.002
350.030             76.003
350.040             76.004
350.050             76.005
355.010             76.020
355.020             76.021
355.030             76.022
355.040             76.023
355.045             76.024
355.050             76.025
355.060             76.026
355.070             76.027
355.080             76.028
355.090             76.029
355.100             76.030,
                    76.999
355.110             76.031
360.010             76.045
360.020             76.046
360.030             76.047
360.040             76.048
360.050             76.049
360.060             76.050
360.070             76.051
365.010             76.065
365.020             76.066
365.030             76.067
365.040             76.068
365.050             76.069
365.060             76.070
365.070             76.071
370.005             77.01
370.010             77.02
370.020             77.03
370.030             77.04
370.040             77.05
375.010             77.20
375.020             77.21
375.030             77.22
375.040             77.23
375.050             77.24
380.010             78.01
380.020             78.02
380.030             78.03
380.040             78.04
380.050             78.05
380.060             78.06
380.070             78.07
380.080             78.08
380.090             78.09
380.100             78.10
380.110             78.11
380.120             78.12
380.130             78.13
380.140             78.25
380.150             78.26
380.160             78.27
380.170             78.28
380.180             78.29
380.200             78.30
380.210             78.31
380.220             78.32
385.010             71.080
385.020             71.081
385.030             71.082
385.040             71.083
385.050             71.084
385.060             71.999
385.070             71.085
385.080             71.086
390.010             71.020
390.020             71.021
390.030             71.022
390.040             71.023
390.050             71.024
390.060             71.025
390.070             71.026
390.080             71.027
390.090             71.028
390.100             71.029
390.110             71.030
390.130             71.032
Title III Schd. I   Ch. 79 Schd. I
Title III Schd. II  Ch. 79 Schd. II
Title III Schd. III Ch. 79 Schd. III
Title III Schd. IV  Ch. 79 Schd. IV
Title III Schd. V   Ch. 79 Schd. V
500.010             150.01
500.020             150.15
500.030             150.16
500.040             150.17
500.050             150.18
500.060             150.19
500.070             150.20
500.080             150.21
500.090             150.22
500.100             150.23
500.110             150.24
500.120             150.99
500.130             150.40
505.010             151.01
505.020             151.02
505.030             151.03
505.040             151.04
505.050             151.05
505.060             151.06
505.070             151.07
505.080             151.08 
505.090             151.09 
505.100             151.10
505.110             151.11
505.120             151.99
510.040             152.04
510.050             152.05
510.060             152.06
510.070             152.07
510.080             152.08
510.090             152.09
510.100             152.10
510.110             152.11
510.120             152.12
510.130             152.13
510.140             152.14
510.150             152.15
510.160             152.16
510.170             152.17
510.180             152.99
510.190             152.18
510.200             152.30
510.240             152.33
510.260             152.35
510.270             152.36,
                    152.99
600.010             113.01
600.020             113.02
600.030             113.03
600.040             113.04
600.050             113.05
600.055             113.06
600.057             113.07
600.060             113.08
600.070             113.09
600.080             113.10
600.090             113.11
600.095             113.12
600.100             113.99
605.005             110.01
605.010             110.02
605.015             110.03
605.020             110.04
605.025             110.05
605.030             110.06
605.040             110.07
605.050             110.08
605.060             110.09
605.070             110.10
605.080             110.11
605.090             110.12
605.100             110.13
605.110             110.99
605.120             110.14
605.130             110.15
610.020             111.02
615.010             112.01
615.020             112.02
615.030             112.03
615.040             112.04
615.050             112.05
615.060             112.06
615.070             112.07
615.080             112.08
615.090             112.09
615.100             112.10
615.110             112.11
615.120             112.12
615.130             112.13
615.140             112.14
615.150             112.15
615.160             112.16
615.170             112.99
700.010             51.001
700.020             51.002
700.030             51.003
705.010             51.015
705.020             51.016
705.030             51.017
705.040             51.018
705.050             51.019
705.060             51.020
705.070             51.021
705.100             51.024
705.120             51.026
705.130             51.027
705.150             51.030
705.160             51.031
705.170             51.032
705.190             51.035
705.210             51.050
705.220             51.051
705.230             51.052
710.010             52.01
710.020             52.02
710.030             52.03
710.040             52.04
710.050             52.05
710.060             52.06
710.070             52.07
710.080             52.08
710.090             52.09
710.100             52.10
710.110             52.11
710.120             52.12
710.130             52.13
710.140             52.14
710.150             52.99
715.010             52.25
715.020             52.26
715.030             52.27
715.040             52.28
715.050             52.29
715.060             52.30
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         34.015 –
                     34.020
68A      10-20-1958  51.015 –
                     51.018
95       10-21-1963  113.05
104      4-12-1965   51.001
                     150.15 –
117      11-6-1967   150.24,
                     150.99
118      11-6-1967   150.40
127      8-5-1968    110.03
                     32.32 –
                     32.34,
                     33.020,
                     33.051,
146      10-1-1970   36.015,
                     36.047 –
                     36.052,
                     36.999,
                     51.002
154      12-14-1971  Ch. 79 Schd. V
133B     12-27-1971  33.051
155      12-27-1971  130.138 –
                     130.144
169      9-3-1973    130.107
                     50.01 –
                     50.03,
175      12-14-1974  50.06,
                     50.08,
                     50.10
                     113.01,
181      1-20-1976   113.04 –
                     113.07,
                     113.12
190      12-6-1977   111.01,
                     111.02
                     152.04 –
192      12-15-1977  152.18,
                     152.99
                     110.01,
                     110.02,
130B     8-4-1981    110.05 –
                     110.07,
                     110.14
                     51.019,
                     51.020,
                     51.024,
213      5-3-1983    51.026,
                     51.027,
                     51.030 –
                     51.032,
                     51.035
                     52.01 –
                     52.06,
204A     8-9-1983    52.08 –
                     52.14,
                     52.99
222      2-21-1984   52.25 –
                     52.28
229      8-7-1984    Ch. 79 Schd. IV
237      10-6-1987   33.035
                     90.04,
                     90.05,
240      3-1-1988    90.06,
                     90.07,
                     90.12,
                     90.16
243      12-6-1988   34.001
                     74.003,
                     77.01,
264      8-3-1993    Ch. 79 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 79 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 79 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 79 Schd. IV
276      6-4-1996    130.137
130B     11-5-1996   110.06,
                     110.15
229      6-3-1997    Ch. 79 Schd. IV
                     152.30,
                     152.33,
293      5-19-1999   152.35,
                     152.36,
                     152.99
295      8-3-1999    51.050 –
                     51.052
                     112.01 –
297      2-1-2000    112.16,
                     112.99
298      2-1-2000    76.031
300      7-6-2000    32.01
301      7-6-2000    33.007
302      7-6-2000    71.031
                     71.045 –
303      8-1-2000    71.048,
                     71.999
                     91.15 –
304      8-1-2000    91.23,
                     91.99
306      12-5-2000   130.107
308      5-1-2001    51.017
313      2-5-2002    51.020
315      6-4-2002    32.34
320      7-12-2003   90.04
321      7-12-2003   90.16
322      7-26-2003   51.003
318      9-6-2003    91.36
325      11-1-2003   36.045,
                     36.046
326      12-6-2003   113.02,
                     113.03
327      - -2004     52.45 –
                     52.55
329      4-3-2004    52.28
330      4-3-2004    110.06
331      4-3-2004    76.024
332      4-3-2004    76.031
335      8-7-2004    113.04
338      3-5-2005    90.16
339      3-5-2005    Ch. 79 Schd. V
340      3-5-2005    34.035 –
                     34.038
343      6-4-2005    52.07
344      6-4-2005    51.028,
                     51.029
                     152.01 –
                     152.03,
                     152.31,
345      7-2-2005    152.32,
                     152.34,
                     152.37,
                     152.99
357      4-1-2006    51.065 –
                     51.074
359      5-6-2006    33.001,
                     33.002
360      5-6-2006    111.15
364      8-5-2006    90.02
370      1-6-2007    113.04
371      4-7-2007    52.05
326-1    11-3-2007   150.25
380      1-5-2008    51.020
365      2-2-2008    70.02,
                     72.05
                     51.022,
382      3-1-2008    51.033,
                     51.034,
                     51.999
                     50.02,
388      12-3-2008   50.03,
                     50.06
                     71.100,
392      9-2-2009    71.101,
                     71.999
393      9-2-2009    92.01
395      1-6-2010    52.29,
                     52.30
401      8-11-2010   113.02,
                     113.04
402      11-10-2010  31.06
406      8-18-2011   50.10
408      9-14-2011   111.03
424      8-13-2014   51.020
428      1-14-2015   51.025
432      7-13-2015   90.10
433      7-13-2015   90.15,
                     90.99
434      7-13-2015   90.04
447      3-13-2019   51.024
449      3-13-2019   51.023
                     75.35 –
452      9-10-2020   75.42,
                     75.99
453      10-14-2020  52.28
454      10-14-2020  51.021
455      10-14-2020  52.26
457      11-11-2020  32.30
442      8-8-2018    74.046,
                     74.999
458      1-6-2021    51.022
                     111.25 –
                     111.37;
472      3-1-2023    130.100 –
                     130.109,
                     130.999
474      8-2-2023    90.03,
                     90.04
478      1-4-2024    52.28
479      9-4-2024    74.058
480      2-5-2025    52.29
                     Ch. 79, Schd.
480      3-5-2025    II,
                     IV,
                     V
                     51.022,
481      4-2-2025    51.033,
                     51.034,
                     51.999
481      7-2-2025    74.046
482      4-2-2025    52.05
483      5-7-2025    150.41
485      6-4-2025    90.06
486      6-4-2025    90.12
487      6-4-2025    91.35
                    
 
