WORTHINGTON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-27 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 12-31-2024
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
ORDINANCE NO. 917
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WORTHINGTON,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.21, and Worthington City
Charter Section 4.08 authorize the city to cause its ordinances to be codified
and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Worthington, Minnesota, Do
Ordain:
   Section 1.
The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised, updated,
codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the violations of
various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall constitute the "Code
of Ordinances of the City of Worthington." This Code of Ordinances also adopts
by reference certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2.
The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
chapters:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter 10.   General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter 30.   General Provisions
      Chapter 31.   Departments, Boards and Commissions
      Chapter 32.   Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter 50.   General Provisions
      Chapter 51.   Sewer Regulations
      Chapter 52.   Solid Waste
      Chapter 53.   Water Regulations
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter 70.   General Provisions
      Chapter 71.   Traffic Regulations
      Chapter 72.   Parking Regulations
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter 90.   Animals
      Chapter 91.   Fire Prevention
      Chapter 92.   Health and Safety; Nuisances
      Chapter 93.   Parks and Recreation
      Chapter 94.   Streets and Sidewalks
      Chapter 95.   Trees
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter 110. General Business Licensing and Regulation
      Chapter 111. Liquor Regulations
      Chapter 112. Adult Oriented Businesses
      Chapter 113. Peddlers and Solicitors
      Chapter 114. Cable Television Regulations
      Chapter 115. Pawnbrokers
      Chapter 116. Lawful Gambling
      Chapter 117. Amusement and Entertainment Businesses
      Chapter 118. Taxicabs
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter 130. General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter 150. Building Regulations
      Chapter 151. Planning
      Chapter 152. Flood Plain Management
      Chapter 153. Signs
      Chapter 154. Subdivisions
      Chapter 155. Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table I.      Annexations
      Table II.   Franchises
      Table III.   Vacated Property
      Table IV.   Zoning Map Amendments
      Table V.   Special Service Districts
   Section 3.
All prior ordinances and provisions of city codes, pertaining to the subjects
treated in the Code of Ordinances of the City of Worthington, shall be deemed
repealed from and after the effective date of this ordinance, except as they
are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in the Code of Ordinances;
provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty
incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances. All fees
established in prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in effect
unless amended in this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
   Section 4.
This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances of the City of Worthington shall
be a sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and kept in the office
of the City Clerk.
   Section 5.
The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the law of the
City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota Statutes by the
Courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6.
This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of Ordinances
itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the City's
official newspaper.
Passed by the City Council of the City of Worthington, Minnesota, this 8th day
of January, 2001.
(SEAL)
   Robert J. Demuth /s/
   Mayor
Attest: Karen Buchman /s/
   City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.19   Copies of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Worthington shall be
designated as the Code of Worthington, Minnesota, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this municipality shall be by the following rules, unless such construction
is plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," whenever the context requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, such requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Worthington,
Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Nobles County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by any individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
   Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. passed
1-1-80; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
   Example:   (M.S. § 609.034) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. passed 1-1-
85)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
   Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
      or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see M.S.
§§ 138.163 et seq.
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.19 COPIES OF CODE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection and sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of the
city code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty for any crime that is a
misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted
by reference, shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 3, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of the
city code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference,
which is designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty
of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty for any petty offense that is a petty
misdemeanor shall be identical to the penalty enumerated in M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 4a, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by the city code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see M.S. §§ 412.231 and 609.034
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   HEARING OFFICER; APPEALS
   
32.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Council meetings
   
30.02   City Attorney
   
30.03   City Administration
   
30.04   Wards and Precincts
   
30.05   Petty cash fund
   
30.06   Salaries of the Mayor and Aldermen
   
30.07   Interim emergency succession
   
30.08   Qualified voters registration
   
30.09   Criminal history background checks
§ 30.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second and fourth
Monday of each month at 5:30 p.m. in the Council Chambers of the City Hall.
Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or any two members
of the Council upon at least 72 hours’ notice to each member of the Council.
Such notice shall be in writing and delivered personally to each member or left
at his or her usual place of residence with some responsible person. Provided,
however, that notice of a special meeting may be waived when a written waiver
of notice has been signed by all members of the Council and provided further
that such written waiver contains a general listing of all items of business to
be transacted at such meeting.
('69 Code, § 2.01) (Ord. 538-2, eff. 1-8-76; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 1- 9-23)
§ 30.02 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney, and such assistants as may be
desirable. The City Attorney shall perform such duties as are required of him
or her by law or referred to him or her by the Council or its agents. The City
Attorney shall act as "Revisor of Ordinances" for the purpose of keeping the
city code in a current and up-to-date condition.
('69 Code, § 2.02)
§ 30.03 CITY ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   City Administrator. The City Council may hire a City Administrator.
The Administrator shall report and be responsible to the City Council. The
Administrator shall supervise, either directly or indirectly, all city
employees except those under the control of the Water and Light Commission; and
those under the control of the Hospital Board. The Administrator shall have the
authority to hire, promote, and terminate all employees of the city except
those under the control of other boards or commissions specified above. The
Administrator shall be responsible for the preparation of an annual city budget
for the City Council's review and approval. The Administrator shall be
responsible for administration of the annual operating and capital budgets of
the City. The Council shall establish the salary and benefits for the
Administrator from time to time and may enter into an employment contract with
the Administrator.
   (B)   Manager of Public Utilities. The Water and Light Commission may hire a
Manager of Public Utilities. The Manager shall report and be responsible to the
Water and Light Commission. The Manager shall supervise, either directly or
indirectly, all employees of the Water and Light Commission, also known as
Worthington Public Utilities. The Manager shall have the authority to hire,
promote, and terminate all such employees of the Water and Light Commission.
The Manager shall be responsible for the preparation of the annual Water and
Light Commission budget for the Commission's review and approval. The Manager
shall be responsible for the administration of the annual operating and capital
budgets of the Commission. The Water and Light Commission shall establish the
salary and benefits for the Manager from time to time and may enter into an
employment contract with the Manager.
('69 Code, § 2.03) (Ord. 910, passed 11-27-00)
§ 30.04 WARDS AND PRECINCTS.
   (A)   Ward and precinct map. The city is hereby divided into wards and
precincts as shown on the wards and precincts map. The wards and precinct map
together with all explanatory matter thereon is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Signature and seal. The wards and precinct map shall be identified by
the signature of the Mayor attested by the City Clerk and bearing the seal of
the city under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the
official wards and precinct map of the City of Worthington, Minnesota."
   (C)   Changes in map. When, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, changes are made in ward or precinct boundaries, such changes shall be
made on the wards and precinct map promptly after the amendment has been
approved by the City Council. The City Administrator or his or her designee
shall make such changes.
   (D)   Unauthorized change. Any unauthorized change by any person shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as provided in § 10.99.
   (E)   Final authority. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of
the wards and precinct map, which may be published, the official wards and
precinct map shall be the final authority of the current ward and precinct
boundary status and shall be located in the office of the City Clerk.
   (F)   Boundary interpretation. Where uncertainty exists with respect to the
boundaries of any wards or precincts as shown on the wards and precinct map,
the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Where wards and precinct boundaries are indicated as following the
center lines of streets or highways, such center lanes shall be construed to be
such boundaries.
      (2)   Where the boundary of a ward and precinct follows a water line or
railroad line, such boundary shall be deemed to be located at the shore line of
the water body and midway between the tracks of the main railroad line.
   (G)   Administrator to interpret. Where physical features existing on the
ground are at variance with those shown on the wards and precinct map, or in
other circumstances not covered above, the City Administrator shall interpret
the ward and precinct boundaries.
('69 Code, § 2.04) (Am. Ord. 777, passed 4-27-92)
§ 30.05 PETTY CASH FUND.
   A petty cash fund is hereby established. Such fund shall be under the
direction of the City Clerk who is authorized to pay therefrom miscellaneous
small items of expense, including postage, freight, wages of casual labor and
other similar items. The City Clerk shall keep a detailed account of all such
expenditures. The amount to be maintained in such fund shall be established,
budgeted and appropriated by the Council.
('69 Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.06 SALARIES OF THE MAYOR AND ALDERMEN.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Charter § 11.01 and in accordance with M.S. §
415.11, as it may be amended from time to time, compensation of the Mayor and
Aldermen is hereby fixed as follows:
   (A)   Mayor's salary   $10,000 per year.
   (B)   Alderman's salary   $6,000 per year.
   (C)   Extra meeting compensation   $100 per day.
   (D)   Expenses   Not to exceed daily maximum set by Council.
('69 Code, § 2.07) (Ord. 555, eff. 2-28-77; Am. Ord. 702, passed 3-24-86; Am.
Ord. 943, passed 12-9-02; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 1-9-23)
§ 30.07 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack or a
natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found
urgent and necessary to insure the continuity of duly elected and lawful
leadership of the city to provide for the continuity of the government and the
emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a
method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a man-made or natural
disaster affecting the vicinity of the city, the Mayor, Council and City Clerk
shall be forthwith notified by any one of such persons by any means available
to gather at the City Hall. In the event that safety or convenience dictate, an
alternative place of meeting may be designated. Those gathered shall proceed as
follows:
      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
disaster and injuries to persons or damage to property already done, or the
imminence thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on such facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)   By majority vote of these persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council (including the office of Mayor) of
those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   Such interim successors shall serve until such time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the
state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as
required by law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices during the emergency.
('69 Code, § 2.11) (Ord. 538-2, eff. 1-8-76)
§ 30.08 QUALIFIED VOTERS REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration system adopted. The system for the permanent registration
of voters provided for by M.S. Chapter 201, as it may be amended from time to
time, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   Voters must be registered. No person shall be permitted to vote at any
election in the city unless he or she is registered as provided by state law.
('69 Code, § 2.12) (Ord. 496, eff. 4-3-73)
§ 30.09 CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   The Worthington Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive
entity within the city, to conduct a criminal history background investigation
as to all applicants for employment with the City of Worthington unless the
city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is not
needed. Pursuant to M.S. § 364.021, a background check shall be conducted only
as to applicants who have been selected for an interview.
   (B)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation, the
Police Department is authorized to access data maintained in the Minnesota
Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information
system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired
shall be maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the
chief law enforcement official or his/her designee. A summary of the results of
the Computerized Criminal History data may be released by the Police Department
to the hiring authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator/
Clerk, or other city staff involved in the hiring process.
   (C)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize
the Police Department in writing to undertake the investigation. The written
authorization must fully comply with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 13
regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for
the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will not reject an applicant
for employment on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction of a crime or
crimes unless the crime or crimes for which the applicant was convicted
directly relate to the position of employment sought.
   (D)   In determining if a conviction directly relates to the position
sought, the city shall consider:
      (1)   The nature and seriousness of the crime or crimes for which the
applicant was convicted.
      (2)   The relationship of the crime or crimes to the purposes of
regulating the position sought by the applicant.
      (3)   The relationship of the crime or crimes to the ability, capacity,
and fitness required to perform the duties and discharge the responsibilities
of the position sought by the applicant.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of a crime or crimes which directly
relate to the position sought by the applicant shall not be disqualified from
employment if the person can show competent evidence of sufficient
rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of the position sought
by the applicant. Sufficient evidence of rehabilitation may be established by
the production of:
      (1)   A copy of the local, state, or federal release order; and
      (2)   Evidence showing that at least one year has elapsed since release
from any local, state, or federal correctional institution without subsequent
conviction of a crime and evidence showing compliance with all terms and
conditions of probation or parole; or
      (3)   A copy of the relevant Department of Corrections discharge order or
other documents showing completion of probation or parole supervision.
   (F)   In addition to the documentary evidence presented, the city shall
consider any evidence presented by the applicant regarding:
      (1)   The nature and seriousness of the crime or crimes for which
convicted;
      (2)   All circumstances relative to the crime or crimes, including
mitigating circumstances or social conditions surrounding the commission of the
crime or crimes;
      (3)   The age of the person at the time the crime or crimes were
committed;
      (4)   The length of time elapsed since the crime or crimes were
committed; and
      (5)   All other competent evidence of rehabilitation and present fitness
presented, including, but not limited to, letters of reference by persons who
have been in contact with the applicant since the applicant’s release from any
local, state, or federal correctional institution.
(Ord. 1068, passed 5-28-13)
CHAPTER 31: HEARING OFFICER; APPEALS
Section
   
31.01   Legislative Hearing Officer
   
31.02   Appeals from enforcement officers
§ 31.01 LEGISLATIVE HEARING OFFICER.
   In order to hear and decide appeals from a notice of violation or emergency
issued by enforcement officers pursuant to Chapters 92, 99 and 98 of the
Worthington City Code, there shall be and is hereby created a Legislative
Hearing Officer. The Legislative Hearing Officer shall be a person appointed by
the City Council. The Legislative Hearing Officer shall also have the authority
to conduct hearings on such other matters, except those matters which are
governed by Title XV of the Worthington City Code, as the City Council may from
time to time direct be heard by the Legislative Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 961, passed 4-12-04)
§ 31.02 APPEALS FROM ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)    Right to appeal.  Any person affected by any notice of violation or
emergency order issued and served pursuant to Chapters 92, 99 and 98 which has
been issued may appeal such order by following the procedures set forth in this
chapter.

   (B)   Filing appeal. Any person affected by any notice of violation or
emergency order issued and served pursuant to Chapters 92, 99 and 98 shall be
granted a hearing before the Legislative Hearing Officer upon filing in the
office of the City Clerk a written appeal requesting such hearing. Said appeal
shall be filed within ten days after the date the notice or order from which
the appeal is taken is served.

   (C)   Contents of written appeal.  The written appeal shall set forth the
date of the notice of violation or emergency order issued by the enforcement
officer and shall set forth the grounds for the appeal.

   (D)   Hearing date and notice of hearing. Upon receipt of a written appeal,
the Legislative Hearing Officer shall set a time and place for such hearing and
shall give the appellant written notice thereof. Unless the relevant chapter
provides for a shorter time period, the hearing shall be commenced not later
than 14 days after the date on which the written appeal was filed. If the
relevant chapter provides for a shorter period of time, the hearing shall be
commenced during such period of time.

   (E)   Conduct of hearing and evidence. At such hearing the appellant,
appellant's agent or attorney shall be given an opportunity to show cause why
the notice of violation or emergency order issued by the enforcement officer
should be modified or withdrawn. The enforcement officer shall present a
written statement of his or her findings which caused the enforcement officer
to issue the notice of violation or emergency order. Such evidence as either
the appellant or the enforcement officer feels is relevant may be presented.
Strict rules of evidence shall not apply.

   (F)   Decisions of the Legislative Hearing Officer. After the hearing, the
Legislative Hearing Officer shall sustain, modify or withdraw the notice of
violation or emergency order. If the Legislative Hearing Officer sustains or
modifies such notice of violation or emergency order, it shall be deemed to be
an effective notice of violation or emergency order. A copy of the decision of
the Legislative Hearing Officer shall be served by mail on the petitioner or
petitioners and filed in the office of the City Clerk. The Legislative Hearing
Officer shall render a decision within 21 days from the date the hearing
closes. If no decision is rendered within 21 days, the appeal shall be
considered denied. If within 10 days from the date of service of the decision
of the Legislative Hearing Officer, no appeal is made from the decision of the
Legislative Hearing Officer to the City Council pursuant to the provisions of
division (I) of this section, the decision of the Legislative Hearing Officer
shall be final.

   (G)   Record of proceedings. The proceedings of each hearing held before the
Legislative Hearing Officer pursuant to an appeal shall be tape-recorded and
the recording kept as a part of the record of the proceedings. The record of
the proceedings shall include a copy of every notice, order, stay and writing
issued in connection with the notice of violation or emergency order and the
appeal.

   (H)   Prosecution of appeal. The appellant shall prosecute the appeal in a
timely fashion. If the Legislative Hearing Officer concludes that the appellant
is not prosecuting the appeal in a timely manner, the Legislative Hearing
Officer shall enter an order sustaining the order of the enforcement officer.

   (I)   Appeal to Council from decision of the Legislative Hearing Officer. If
either the appellant or the enforcement officer disagrees with the decision of
the Legislative Hearing Officer, the appellant or the enforcement officer may,
within the time period set forth in division (F) of this section, appeal the
decision to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk.
The City Council shall consider the appeal at the first regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council held more than four days after the notice of appeal
has been filed. At such meeting, the record of the proceedings shall be
reviewed and, based on such review, the City Council shall affirm, modify or
reverse the decision of the Legislative Hearing Officer.

   (J)   Extension of time periods. If the ending day of any time period for
which provision is made in this chapter falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the time period shall be extended to end on the first working day
following the Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
(Ord. 961, passed 4-12-04)
CHAPTER 32: TAXATION
Section
Lodging Tax
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Imposition of tax
   
32.03   Collections
   
32.04   Exceptions and exemptions
   
32.05   Advertising no tax
   
32.06   Payment and returns
   
32.07   Examination of return, adjustments, notice and demands
   
32.08   Refunds
   
32.09   Failure to file a return
   
32.10   Administration of tax
   
32.11   Examination of records
   
32.12   Contract with state
   
32.13   Use of proceeds
   
32.14   Appeals
   
32.15   Penalties for delinquency, failure to pay, fraudulent returns
Local Sales and Use Tax
   
32.30   Local sales and use tax
 
   
32.99   Penalty
LODGING TAX
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Worthington.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Finance Director of the city.
   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING. The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel, or
rooming house except where such lodging shall be for a continuous period of 30
days or more to the same lodger(s). The furnishing of rooms by religious,
educational or nonprofit organizations shall not constitute LODGING for
purposes of this chapter. LODGING shall also include the renting of campsites
at municipal or private campgrounds in the city.
   OPERATOR. A person who provides lodging to others or any officer, agent or
employee of such person.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, estate,
receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, assignee, syndicate, or any other
combination or individuals. Whenever the term PERSON is used in any provision
of this chapter prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied to a
corporation, association, or partnership, shall mean the officers, or partners
thereof as the case may be.
   RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93; Am. Ord. 915, passed 11-27-00)
§ 32.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed a tax of 3% on the rent charged by an operator for
providing lodging to any person after February 1, 1990. The tax shall be stated
and charged separately and shall be collected by the operator from the lodger.
The tax collected by the operator shall be a debt owed by the operator to the
city and shall be extinguished only by payment to the city. In no case shall
the tax imposed by this section upon an operator exceed the amount of tax which
the operator is authorized and required by this chapter to collect from a
lodger.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.03 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter at the time the
rent is paid. The tax collection shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
receipt charged for the lodging and those persons paying the tax shall receive
a receipt of payment from the operator.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.04 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No tax shall be imposed on rent paid by a lodger at any hotel, motel
or rooming house where 50% or more of the rent received from all lodgers is for
lodging furnished for a continuous period of 30 days or more to the same lodger
(s).
   (B)   No tax shall be imposed on rent for lodging paid by any officer or
employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provisions
of federal law or international treaty.
   (C)   An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or whose
occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall be
granted except upon a claim therefore made at the time the rent is collected
and such a claim shall be made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms
provided by the city. All such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the
returns and collections are submitted as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.05 ADVERTISING NO TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or abate to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less than $.01 shall be
considered an additional cent.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.06 PAYMENT AND RETURNS.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be paid by the operator to the
city monthly not later than 25 days after the end of the month in which the
taxes were collected. At the time of payment the operator shall submit a return
upon such forms and containing such information as the Finance Director may
require. The return shall contain the following minimum information:
      (1)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return.
      (2)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the period.
      (3)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of an agent
duly authorized in writing.
      (4)   The period covered by the return.
      (5)   The amount of uncollectible rental charged subject to the lodging
tax.
   (B)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to any
reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by the ordinance previously paid
as a result of any transaction the consideration for which became uncollectible
during such reporting period, but only in proportion to the portion of such
consideration which became uncollectible.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.07 EXAMINATION OF RETURN, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICE AND DEMANDS.
   The Finance Director shall, after a return is filed, examine the same and
make any investigation or examination of the records and accounts of the person
making the return deemed necessary for determining its correctness. The tax
computed on the basis of such examination shall be the tax to be paid. If the
tax due is found to be greater than that paid, such excess shall be paid to the
city within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof given either personally
or sent by registered mail to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid
is greater than the tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the
person who paid the tax to the city within ten days after determination of such
refund.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.08 REFUNDS.
   Any person may apply to the Finance Director for a refund of taxes paid for
a prescribed period in excess of the amount legally due for that period,
provided that no application for refund shall be considered unless filed within
one year after such tax was paid, or within one year from the filing of the
return, whichever period is the longer. The Finance Director shall examine the
claim and make and file written findings thereon denying or allowing the claim
in whole or in part and shall mail a notice thereof by registered mail to such
person at the address stated upon the return. If such claim is allowed in whole
or in part, the Finance Director shall credit the amount of the allowance
against any taxes due under this chapter from the claimant and the balance of
said allowance, if any, shall be paid by the Finance Director to the claimant.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.09 FAILURE TO FILE A RETURN.
   (A)   If any operator required by this chapter to file a return shall fail
to do so within the time prescribed, or shall make, willfully or otherwise, an
incorrect, false, or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon written notice
and demand, file such return or corrected return within five days of receipt of
such written notice and shall at the same time pay any tax due on the basis
thereof. If such person shall fail to file such return or corrected return, the
Finance Director shall make a return or corrected return, for such person from
such knowledge and information as the Finance Director can obtain, and assess a
tax on the basis thereof, which tax (less any payments theretofore made on
account of the tax for the taxable period covered by such return) shall be paid
upon within five days of the receipt of written notice and demand for such
payment. Any such return or assessment made by the Finance Director shall be
prima facie correct and valid, and such person shall have the burden of
establishing its incorrectness or invalidity in any action or proceeding in
respect thereto.
   (B)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this chapter, including penalties
thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid, the City
Attorney may institute such legal action as may be necessary to recover the
amount due plus interest, penalties, the costs and disbursement of any action.
   (C)   Upon a showing of good cause, the Finance Director may grant an
operator one 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make
payment of taxes as required by this chapter provided that interest during such
period of extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10% per
annum.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.10 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   The Finance Director shall administer and enforce the assessment and
collection of the taxes imposed by this chapter. The Finance Director shall
cause to be prepared blank forms for the returns and other documents required
by this chapter and shall distribute the same throughout the city and furnish
them an application, but failure to receive or secure them shall not relieve
any person from any obligation required of him under this chapter.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.11 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Finance Director and those persons acting on behalf of the Finance
Director authorized in writing by the Finance Director may examine the books,
papers and records of any operator in order to verify the accuracy of any
return made, or if no return was made, to ascertain the tax as provided in this
chapter. Every such operator is directed and required to give to the Finance
Director or to his duly authorized agent or employee the means, facilities and
opportunity for such examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.12 CONTRACT WITH STATE.
   The City Administrator is authorized to confer with the Minnesota
Commissioner of Taxation to the end that an agreement between the city and the
Commissioner of Taxation may be entered into the purpose of providing for the
administration and collection of the taxes imposed by this chapter. Such an
agreement shall not become effective until presented to the City Council for
its approval and when so approved the tax imposed by this chapter shall be
collected and administered pursuant to the terms of said agreement.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.13 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The 95% proceeds obtained from the collection of taxes pursuant to this
chapter shall be used in accordance with M.S. § 469.190, as the same may be
amended from time to time to fund a local convention or tourism bureau for the
purpose of marketing and promoting the city as a tourist or convention center.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made by
the Finance Director under this chapter may file a petition for review of such
notice, order or determination detailing the
operator's reasons for contesting the notice, order or determination. The
petition shall contain the name of the petitioner, the petitioner's address and
the location of the lodging subject to the order, notice or determination.
   (B)   The petition for review shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten
days after the notice, order or determination for which review is sought has
been mailed or served upon the person requesting review.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the petition the City Administrator, or his designee,
shall set a date for a hearing and give the petitioner at least five day's
prior written notice of the date, time and place of the hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or withdrawn.
The petitioner may be represented by counsel of petitioner's choosing at
petitioner's own expense.
   (E)   The hearing shall be conducted by the City Administrator or his
designee, provided only that the person conducting the hearing shall not have
participated in the drafting of the order, notice or determination for which
review is sought.
   (F)   The person conducting the hearing shall make written findings of fact
and conclusions based upon the applicable sections of this chapter and the
evidence presented. The person conducting the hearing may affirm, reverse or
modify the notice, order or determination made by the Finance Director.
   (G)   Any decision rendered by the City Administrator pursuant to this
section may be appealed to the City Council. A petitioner seeking to appeal a
decision must file a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten
days after the decision has been mailed to the petitioner. The matter will
thereupon be placed on the City Council agenda as soon as is practical. The
City Council shall then review the findings of fact and conclusions to
determine whether they were correct. Upon a determination by the City Council
that findings and conclusions were incorrect, the City Council may modify,
reverse or affirm the decision of the City Administrator or his designee upon
the same standards as set forth in division (F) above.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
§ 32.15 PENALTIES FOR DELINQUENCY, FAILURE TO PAY, FRAUDULENT RETURNS.
   (A)   If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid within the time herein
specified for the payment or an extension thereof, there shall be added thereto
a specific penalty equal to 10% of the amount remaining unpaid.
   (B)   In case of any failure to make and file a return within the time
prescribed by this chapter, unless it is shown that such failure is not due to
willful neglect, there shall be added to the tax, in addition to the 10%
specific penalty provided in division (A) above, 10% if the failure is for not
more than 30 days with an additional 5% for each additional 30 days or fraction
thereof during which such failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate. If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty of
$10 shall be assessed. The amount so added to any tax shall be collected at the
same time and the same manner and as a part of the tax unless the tax has been
paid before the discovery of the negligence, in which case the amount so added
shall be collected in the same manner as the tax.
   (C)   If any person willfully fails to file any return or make any payment
required by this chapter, or willfully files a false or fraudulent return or
willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such a tax or payment
thereof, there shall also be imposed as a penalty an amount equal to 50% of any
tax (less any amounts paid on the basis of such false or fraudulent return)
found due for the period to which such return related. The penalty imposed by
this subdivision shall be collected as part of the tax, and shall be in
addition to any other penalties provided by this chapter.
   (D)   All payments received shall be credited first to penalties, next to
interest, and then to the tax due.
   (E)   The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty provided
by this section, shall bear interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the time
such tax should have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall be
added to the tax and be collected as part thereof.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 32.30 LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to Session Laws 2019, First Special Session,
Chapter 6, the Minnesota Legislature has authorized the City of Worthington to
impose a local sales and use tax to provide revenues to pay the costs of
collecting and administering the tax to the Commissioner of Revenue of the
State of Minnesota and to finance the capital and administrative costs related
to the funding of designated projects as defined in Session Laws 2019, First
Special Session, Chapter 6 and approved by the voters at the November 6, 2018
referendum.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms,
and phrases have the meanings given to them in this section unless the language
or context clearly indicates a different meaning is intended.
      CITY. The City of Worthington, Minnesota.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Revenue of the State of Minnesota or a
person to whom the Commissioner has delegated functions.
      DESIGNATED PROJECTS. Improvements to the aquatic center, improvements to
the field house, improvements to the ice arena, other park and recreation
capital projects and improvements, lake quality improvements, and improvements
to the 10th Street plaza as authorized by the Minnesota Legislature in Session
Laws 2019, First Special Session, Chapter 6 and approved by the voters at the
November 6, 2018 referendum.
      STATE SALES and USE TAX LAWS AND RULES. Those provisions of the state
revenue laws applicable to state sales and use tax imposition, administration,
collection, and enforcement, including M.S. Chapters 270C, 289A, 297A, §
297A.99, and Minn. Rules, Chapter 8130, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Local sales and use tax imposed; amount of tax; coordination with
state sales and use tax laws and rules.
      (1)   A local sales tax is imposed in the amount of 0.5% on the gross
receipts from sales at retail sources within city limits which are taxable
under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
      (2)   A local use tax is imposed in the amount of 0.5% on the storage,
use, distribution or consumption of goods or services sourced within city
limits which are taxable under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
      (3)   All of the provisions of the state sales and use tax laws and rules
apply to the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter.
      (4)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this section shall be
collected and remitted to the Commissioner on any sale or purchase when the
state sales tax must be collected and remitted to the Commissioner under the
state sales and use tax laws and rules and is in addition to the state sales
and use tax.
   (D)   Effective date of tax; transitional sales. Except as otherwise
provided herein, the local sales and use tax imposed by this section shall
apply to sales and purchases made on or after January 1, 2020. The local sales
and use tax imposed by this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of tangible personal
property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract, which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto, provided that such
contract was enforceable prior to January 1, 2020 and that delivery of the
tangible personal property subject thereto is made on or before January 1,
2020.
      (2)   The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to a bona fide
lump sum or fixed price construction contract, which unconditionally vests the
rights and obligations of the parties thereto and which does not make provision
or allocation of future taxes, provided that such contract was enforceable
prior to January 1, 2020 and that delivery of the tangible personal property
used in performing such construction contract is made before July 1, 2020.
      (3)   The purchase of taxable services, including utility services, if
the billing period includes charges for services furnished before and after
January 1, 2020 but the local sales and use tax imposed by this section shall
apply on the first billing period not including charges for services furnished
before January 1, 2020.
      (4)   Lease payments for tangible personal property and motor vehicles
that includes a period before and after January 1, 2020, but the local sales
and use tax imposed by this section shall apply on a prorated basis to lease
payment amounts attributable to that portion of the lease payment period on or
after January 1, 2020 and on the entire lease payment for all lease payment
periods thereafter.
   (E)   Tax clearance; issuance of licenses. The city may not issue or renew a
license for the conduct of a trade or business within the city if the
commissioner notified the licensing division of the city that the applicant
owes delinquent city taxes as provided in this section, or penalties or
interest due on such taxes.
      (1)   City taxes include sales and use taxes provided in this section.
Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on taxes included in this
definition.
      (2)   Delinquent taxes does not include a tax liability if:
         (a)   An administrative or court action which contests the amount or
validity of the liability has been filed or served;
         (b)   The appeal period to contest the tax liability has not expired;
or
         (c)   The applicant has entered into a payment agreement and is
current with the payments.
      (3)   (a)   Applicant means an individual if the license is issued to or
in the name of an individual or the corporation or partnership if the license
is issued to or in the name of a corporation or partnership.
         (b)   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the licensing
division of the city shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case
of renewal of a license, if the applicant requests in writing, within 30 days
of receipt of the notice of hearing, then, a contested hearing shall be held
under the same procedures as provided in M.S. Ch. 270A for the state sales and
use tax imposed under M.S. Ch. 297A; provided further that if a hearing must be
held on the state sales and use tax, hearings must be combined.
   (F)   Deposit of revenues; costs of administration; termination of tax.
      (1)   All of the revenues, interest, and penalties derived from the local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter collected by the Commissioner and
remitted to the city shall be deposited by the City Finance Director in the
city treasury and shall be credited to the fund established to pay the costs of
collecting the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter and to finance
the capital and administrative costs directly related to completing the
designated projects.
      (2)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall terminate
at the earlier of:
         (a)   Fifteen years; or
         (b)   When the City Council determines that $25,000,000.00, plus an
amount sufficient to pay the costs related to issuing bonds and interest on the
bonds has been received from the local sales and use tax imposed by this
section to pay for all the capital and administrative costs directly related to
completing the designated projects. Any funds remaining after payment of all
such costs and retirement or redemption of the bonds shall be placed in the
general fund of the city. The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter
may terminate at an earlier time if the City Council so determines by
ordinance.
   (G)   Agreement with the Commissioner. The city may enter into an agreement
with the Commissioner regarding each party's respective roles and
responsibilities related to the imposition, administration, collection,
enforcement, and termination of the local sales and use tax imposed by this
section. Any such agreement shall not abrogate, alter, or otherwise conflict
with the state sales and use tax laws and rules, this section, or Session Laws
2019, First Special Session, Chapter 6.
(Ord. 1144, passed 9-9-19; Am. Ord. 1200, passed 7-24-23)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall willfully fail to make a return required by this
chapter or who shall fail to pay the tax after written demand for payment, or
who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest imposed
by this chapter after written demand for such payment or who shall refuse to
permit the Finance Director or any duly authorized agents or employees to
examine the books, records and papers under his or her control, or who shall
willfully make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision
of this chapter when he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act
when such failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by
reference by this chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. 796, passed 11-8-93)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
      
53.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
54.   STORM WATER SYSTEM
      
55.   STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Management of utilities; necessary legislation
   
50.02   Authority of Water and Light Commission
   
50.03   Chapter constitutes portions of contract
   
50.04   Ownership of municipal utilities
   
50.05   Injuring or interfering with utility equipment
   
50.06   Permit required for connection
   
50.07   Utility meters
   
50.08   Rates and billing
   
50.09   Drainage into storm sewers
   
50.10   Right of entry
   
50.11   Disconnection of utilities for violation
§ 50.01 MANAGEMENT OF UTILITIES; NECESSARY LEGISLATION.
   Pursuant to section 6.02 of the City Charter, the control and management of
the water and light utilities shall be committed to the municipal Water and
Light Commission. The City Council may by resolution impose upon the Commission
the control and management of any other utility owned and operated by the city,
including the sewer system.
('69 Code, § 3.01)
§ 50.02 AUTHORITY OF WATER AND LIGHT COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to section 6.04 of the City Charter, the Water and Light Commission
has the authority from time to time to adopt rates, rules, regulations, and
policies for the operation and management of municipal utilities under their
control.
§ 50.03 CHAPTER CONSTITUTES PORTIONS OF CONTRACT.
   This chapter shall constitute portions of the contract between the city and
all consumers of municipal utilities services, and every consumer shall be
deemed to assent to the same.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 12)
§ 50.04 OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Ownership of all municipal utilities plants and appurtenances shall remain
in the city, and no person shall own any part or portion thereof.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 13)
§ 50.05 INJURING OR INTERFERING WITH UTILITY EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break, injure, mar,
deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any building, attachment,
machinery, apparatus, fixture, or appurtenance of any municipal utility system
or with any part or portion of the same, or without permission, commit any act
tending to obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with municipal
utilities without first having applied for and received permission from the
Utilities Department to make the same.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.07 UTILITY METERS.
   (A)   The occupant of any building or premises where a utility meter is
located shall see that the meter is kept and remains free from obstructions
around the same and is conveniently accessible at all times for the purpose of
reading, inspecting or repairing. Utilities may be disconnected from any meter
that shall not be so kept and shall not be reconnected until this section is
complied with and the costs of disconnection and reconnections are paid. Any
meter which may become frozen or damaged through the negligence of the property
owner or the consumer shall be repaired by the city, and the owner or consumer
shall pay the city the total cost of such repair. ('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 8)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to "jumper" or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a utility meter, or to knowingly use or consume
unmetered municipal electricity or water. ('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 10)
(Ord. 654, eff. 5-24-82)
§ 50.08 RATES AND BILLING.
   (A)   All municipal utility services shall be so sold and delivered to
consumers under the then applicable rates, rules, policies, and regulations
established pursuant to section 6.04 of the City Charter.
   (B)   All rates for municipal utilities shall be set forth in a resolution
adopted by the City Council and effective no sooner than 30 days thereafter.
Such resolution as to the utilities within the jurisdiction of the Water and
Light Commission shall initiate with the Commission and be ratified and
confirmed by the Council. ('69 Code, § 3.07)
§ 50.09 DRAINAGE INTO STORM SEWERS.
   It is unlawful for the owner of a building on which any part of the eave
thereof is situated within 75 feet of a storm sewer to permit water from the
roof of such building to drain onto a street or alley adjacent thereto; and it
is also unlawful for any such owner to fail to collect all of such water in
eave troughs, or other conductors, and discharge the same by pipe into a storm
sewer. Provided, however, that all such connections shall be made at the
expense of the owner of such building and with the approval of the City
Engineering Department.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The city has the right to enter in and upon private property, including
buildings and dwelling houses, in or upon which is installed a municipal
utility, or connection therewith, at all times reasonable under the
circumstances, for the purpose of reading utility meters and for the purpose of
inspection and repair of meters or a utility system, or any part thereof.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 14)
§ 50.11 DISCONNECTION OF UTILITIES FOR VIOLATION.
   The city may, at its option, upon premises of a consumer found to be in
violation of any rule or regulation herein stated, disconnect utilities to
which such violated rule or regulation relates.
('69 Code, § 3.06, Subd. 15)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
51.003   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
51.004   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
General Regulations
   
51.015   Deposits of unsanitary manner prohibited
   
51.016   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
51.017   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
51.018   Installation of service connection to public sewer
   
51.019   Failure to connect to a public sewer
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.035   Public sewer not available
   
51.036   Permits
   
51.037   Type, capacities, location and layout
   
51.038   Direct connection required
   
51.039   Operation and maintenance by owner
   
51.040   Application of subchapter
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.055   Restrictions on new connections
   
51.056   Building sewer permits
   
51.057   Costs and expenses
   
51.058   Separate building sewers required
   
51.059   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
51.060   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
51.061   Elevation below basement floor
   
51.062   Surface runoff or groundwater connections prohibited
   
51.063   Excavations
   
51.064   Regulation of roof runoff, surface drainage and the like
Use of Public Services
   
51.080   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
51.081   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
51.082   Limited discharges
   
51.083   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
51.084   Increasing use of process water
   
51.085   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.087   Industrial wastes; installations
   
51.088   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
51.089   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
51.090   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
51.091   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
51.092   Repairing service connection
   
51.093   Catch basin or waste traps required for motor vehicle washing or
servicing facilities
   
51.094   Special agreement and arrangement
   
51.095   Use of public sewer by significant industrial user
   
51.096   Trucked or hauled pollutants or wastes
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
51.110   Charges generally
   
51.111   Definitions
   
51.112   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
51.113   Determination of sewer service charges
   
51.114   Sewer service fund
   
51.115   Administration
   
51.116   Sewer service charge system takes precedence
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
51.130   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
51.131   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
51.132   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
51.133   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Engineer or a deputy, agent or representative
thereof.
   AMMONIA-NITROGEN. That form of nitrogen which in aqueous solution exists as
either the ammonium ion or ammonia, depending on pH.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This city or its representative thereof.
   AVERAGE CONCENTRATION. A numeric average of the concentrations of a
pollutant in all representative samples obtained over a 30-day period. AVERAGE
CONCENTRATION shall be determined by a minimum of four representative samples.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning one
foot outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the City Council
and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
Permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air
Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 USC 2601 et
seq.), or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or
use employed by the city.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), setting
limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally discharge into navigable
waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402 and 405 of the Act (33 USC
1342 and 33 USC 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 300 mg/l, an
average suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 350 mg/l, and an
average total phosphorus (TP) concentration not greater than 8 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge of processed waste water in excess of 25,000
gallons per average work day; has exceeded 5% of the total flow or pollutant
loading received at the treatment facility; whose waste contains a toxic
pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317
(a)); or whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection or
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07 for a disposal system as defined by M.S. § 115.01(8).
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOTAL PHOSPHORUS or TP. The total phosphorus as determined under standard
laboratory procedures and expressed as a concentration, e.g. milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   USER AGREEMENT. A specific written agreement between a user and the city
stipulating the quantity of wastewater and compatible pollutants which the user
is permitted to discharge to the public sewer.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 927, passed 11-26-01; Am. Ord. 1190,
passed 11-28-22)
§ 51.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The City Engineer shall have control and general supervision of all public
sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for
administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.003 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.004 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 51.015 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the city's jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.016 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS
permit.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.017 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.018 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The owners of property, upon which is located any building or other
structure used or intended for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
similar purposes and from which wastewater is discharged, must install a
suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with provisions
of this code if the property abuts any street, alley, right-of-way, or easement
in which there is a public sanitary sewer of the city. The installation shall
be immediate if the public sewer presently exists. When a new or extended
public sewer becomes operational and causes a property to come within the
purview of this section, the owner of the property shall have 60 days from the
operational date to complete the installation. The provisions of this section
apply if the public sewer is:
      (1)   Within 300 feet of any structure that consists of or includes a
restroom or bathroom or from which structure more than 500 gallons of
wastewater is generated in any month; or
      (2)   Within 200 feet of any structure that does not consist of or
include a restroom or bathroom and from which no more than 500 gallons of
wastewater is generated per month.
   (B)   If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this section, an
official 30-day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner
to make the connection.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 1027, passed 6-8-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.019 FAILURE TO CONNECT TO A PUBLIC SEWER.
   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in compliance
with a notice given under § 51.018, the city must undertake to have the
connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against the benefitted
property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the rate
determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the County Auditor and
shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments
for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition to any
remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.035 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of § 51.018, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system
complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.036 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. Prior to commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a development permit
pursuant to Chapter 155 (Zoning). The application for such permit shall include
an approved application and permit number obtained from Nobles County pursuant
to its individual sewage treatment ordinance.
   (B)   Inspections. The development permit for a private wastewater disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed in
accordance with the Nobles County individual sewage treatment ordinance and an
operation permit has been issued by Nobles County.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.037 TYPE, CAPACITIES, LOCATION AND LAYOUT.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minnesota Rules Part 7080 or the
Nobles County individual sewage treatment ordinance, whichever is more
restrictive. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.038 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and within the
same time any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater disposal
systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to permit
drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.039 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BY OWNER.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.040 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.055 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5, suspended solids, and TP, as determined
by the Administrator.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 927, passed 11-26-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.056 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
it is to be occupied. No person shall extend any building sewer beyond the
limits of the building or property for which the service connection permit has
been given. No permit shall be issued for a service connection to any property
or to any building on property which is not adjacent to a public sewer located
in a public easement or street right-of-way abutting the property. No building
sewer is to extend into a public easement or street right-of-way at an angle of
less than 45 degrees as measured between the building sewer and the boundary
line of the easement or right-of-way most parallel to the public sewer.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Administrator or authorized representative
thereof. The entire building sewer shall be exposed for inspection.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.057 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.058 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided herein, a separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building.
   (B)   Two or more buildings on the same property may be connected at a
manhole on a building sewer provided that:
      (1)   The buildings are grouped together for a common land use and are
utilized or occupied in the same manner; and
      (2)   The manhole is located on the property and at a location that will
not be subject to inundation of surface water. The manhole is constructed as a
precast concrete structure with integral base in accordance with the latest
edition of the Standard Utilities Specifications for Sanitary Sewer and Storm
Sewer Installation published by the City Engineers Association of Minnesota.
Manhole castings are as specified by the Administrator and include a self-
sealing lid.
   (C)   A single residential accessory building may be connected to the
principal residential structure building sewer provided such building is used
only by persons residing on the premises for purposes consistent with a Group U
Occupancy, as defined by the current version of the International Building
Code.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall be construed to allow townhouses or any other
buildings on unique properties having or intended to have separate ownership to
be connected to a single building sewer. A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided to each building having a common building sewer
pursuant to this section at the time any such buildings are no longer commonly
owned or used for a common purpose.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96; Am. Ord. 963, passed
5-10-04; Am. Ord. 1115, passed 6-25-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.059 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Administrator or his or her
representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.060 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior
to installation.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.061 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.062 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains, sump
pumps, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.064 REGULATION OF ROOF RUNOFF, SURFACE DRAINAGE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Any person having a roof, surface water drain or pump for surface or
subsurface water drainage which now discharges water directly or indirectly
into the public sewer shall within 60 days of receipt of written notice from
the city, disconnect the same and plug the opening of the sanitary sewer. The
opening to the sanitary sewer shall be permanently plugged.
   (B)   Every building without a yard adequate to absorb the surface water
collected from such building shall be equipped with proper leaders for
conducting water from its roof in such a manner as shall protect the walls and
foundation from damage, and shall be connected with a storm sewer whenever such
sewer exists within 50 feet of such building and abutting street. Such leaders
shall be so placed and such connections shall be so made that no water flows
upon any sidewalk or damages any street abutting such building.
   (C)   Discharge lines from footing drains, sump pumps, rainwater leaders, or
any other method of conducting subsurface or storm water shall be constructed
so as to be permanently installed without being easily able to switch
connections allowing subsurface or storm water to run into the sanitary sewer.
Prohibited methods of installation include:
      (1)   Flexible tubing or hose.
      (2)   Valves allowing switching to sanitary sewer.
      (3)   Discharge across the floor to floor drains, water closets, or
sinks.
      (4)   Discharge out open windows where flows may return to the building.
   (D)   Buildings that are under construction (open foundations or not roofed)
where there is the possibility of rainwater or storm runoff entering the
sanitary sewer during or after rains shall have the building drain its laterals
and inlets plugged and water tight to prevent inflow and infiltration.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person permitted to construct or reconstruct a
building sewer to knowingly allow the perpetuation of any storm water,
groundwater, roof runoff, surface drainage, or non-contact cooling water
discharge connection to the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 51.080 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or caused to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.081 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the
treatment works, including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140° F. or 60 °C. as determined by a Pensky-Martens
closed cup tester, using the test method specified in ASTM Standard D-93-79 or
D-93-80; a Setaflash closed cup tester, using the test method specified in ASTM
Standard D-3278-78; or an equivalent test method approved by the Administrator.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to 33 USC 1317(a).
   (E)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the treatment works in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.082 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater
treatment works, treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse
effect on the receiving stream and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
The Administrator may set limitations lower than limitations established in the
regulations below if, in his opinion, such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability of wastes, the Administrator will give consideration to such
factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in
the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, the city's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Administrator are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F (65.6° C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104° F (40°
C), or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug" as defined in § 51.001.
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in § 51.001 of this
chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the
premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids such as but not
limited to fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids such as but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in such
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Administrator in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works in excess of the following limits for such
materials:
         1 mg/l      arsenic
         1 mg/l      cadmium
         2 mg/l      copper
         1 mg/l      cyanide
         1 mg/l      lead
         1 mg/l      mercury
         1 mg/l      nickel
         1 mg/l      silver
         10 mg/l      total chromium
         1 mg/l      zinc
         12 mg/l      phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's
wastewater treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing an average BOD5 concentration
greater than 300 mg/l, except as may be permitted by a user agreement subject
to the provisions of § 51.094.
      (13)   Any waters or wastes containing an average suspended solids
concentration greater than 350 mg/l, except as may be permitted by a user
agreement subject to the provisions of § 51.094.
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing an average ammonia-nitrogen
concentration greater than 35 mg/l, except as may be permitted by a user
agreement subject to the provisions of § 51.094.
      (15)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/1, or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° F and 150° F (0° C and
65.6° C), except as may be permitted by a user agreement subject to the
provisions of § 51.094.
      (16)   Any waters or wastes of such a character or quantity that unusual
attention or expense is required to handle such materials at the wastewater
treatment works, except as may be permitted by a user agreement subject to the
provisions of § 51.094.
      (17)   Any waters or wastes containing an average total phosphorus
concentration greater than 8 mg/1, except as may be permitted by a user
agreement subject to the provisions of § 51.094.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 927, passed 11-26-01)
§ 51.083 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in § 51.082, or which in the judgement of the
Administrator may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment
facilities, processes, or equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and
ground water, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to 33 USC 1317(b) and all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.084 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§ 51.081 and
51.082, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.085 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Administrator they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in § 51.082(B)
(2), any flammable wastes as specified in § 51.081(A), sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain
a record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Administrator. Any removal and hauling of the collecting materials not
performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by a currently licensed
waste disposal firm.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.087 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. Such
structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe
and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.088 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at
such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear
the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city.
At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.089 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Administrator.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.090 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Administrator for review and approval prior to construction of
the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall notify the
Administrator immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of
substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable countermeasures
to be taken by the Administrator to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment
works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any
state and federal law. Employers shall insure that all employees who may cause
or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.091 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform such other work as the Administrator
may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to install a catch
basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same after the period
of 30 days, the Administrator may cause such work to be completed at the
expense of the owner or representative thereof.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.092 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Administrator may direct. A service having an infiltration rate exceeding
4,000 gallons a day per inch mile of service is deemed to be detrimental to the
treatment works and in need of repair as provided for in this section. Each day
after 60 days that a person neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a
separate violation of this section, and the Administrator may then cause the
work to be done, and recover from such owner or agent the expense thereof by an
action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 1115, passed 6-25-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.093 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.094 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.095 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER BY SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   Use of the public sewer by a significant industrial user or a user having
greater than normal domestic strength waste shall not be permitted except as
provided for by a user agreement subject to the provisions of § 51.094. Use of
the public sewer in a manner which is inconsistent with the terms of a user
agreement shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.096 TRUCKED OR HAULED POLLUTANTS OR WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to the treatment
works any trucked or hauled pollutants or wastewater, except as may be
permitted herein. For the purpose of these provisions a trucked or hauled
wastewater or pollutant is any material conveyed from any source to the
treatment works by any means other than through a sanitary sewer installed and
maintained in accordance with this chapter.
      (1)   Wastewater may be discharged from holding tanks in campers, travel
trailers, motor homes, or similar recreational equipment into the treatment
works only at facilities maintained and approved for such a purpose. Such
wastewater shall only be normal domestic strength waste collected and held in
the recreational equipment during its use as temporary living quarters by an
occupant or occupants engaged in recreational or vacation activities.
      (2)   Trucked or hauled wastewater which contains only compatible
pollutants may be discharged into the treatment works only as specifically
approved by the Administrator. Explicit approval of the location, time,
duration and manner of such a discharge, and of the volume, origin and
characteristics of the wastewater to be discharged must be obtained prior to
commencing each discharge. Such approval must be in writing unless the
discharge occurs under the direct supervision and control of the Administrator
or the operator in charge of the treatment process receiving the discharge. The
Administrator may require any sampling, monitoring and analysis of the water
being discharged, and documentation as to the origin of the wastewater deemed
necessary to ensure that the discharge is in compliance with this subchapter.
      (3)   The person hauling or trucking the wastewater shall pay the
applicable usage charge as set forth in §§ 51.111 through 51.116 and the costs
for all sampling, monitoring, analysis and administration attributable to the
discharge.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to imply any obligation of the city
to accept or treat trucked or hauled wastewater whether originating from within
the city or not. The person hauling or trucking the wastewater and the person
producing the wastewater to be discharged shall be considered a "user" and be
subject to all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 825, passed 7-22-96)
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 51.110 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.111 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works such as billing and associated accounting costs.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. A user other than governmental, industrial, or residential
users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business or institution as distinct from industrial wastewater.
   CONNECTION 1 CHARGE. A monthly charge levied on the users of a treatment
works for the cost of billing administration; inflow and infiltration's
proportionate share of treatment works operation, maintenance, and replacement
costs; and the costs of inflow and infiltration abatement activities of the
city. This charge is levied on the basis of the number of user connections to
the wastewater treatment works.
   CONNECTION 2 CHARGE. A monthly charge levied on the users of a treatment
works for inflow and infiltration's proportionate share of treatment works debt
retirement costs. This charge is levied on the basis of the number of user
connections to the wastewater treatment works.
   CONNECTION 3 CHARGE. A monthly charge levied on the users of a treatment
works for the cost of repaying money bonded prior to January 1, 1988 for the
construction or improvement of the treatment works; the costs of any
improvements made to the wastewater collection system not financed through
special assessment proceedings; and for reserve capacity costs. This charge is
levied on the basis of the sum of the number of industrial, commercial, and
governmental user connections and the number of dwelling units utilizing the
wastewater treatment works.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment plant
for users proportionate share of the cost of repaying money bonded after
January 1, 1988 to construct, renovate, or upgrade said facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or suite of private or interconnecting rooms,
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes and
having cooking, toilet, and bathing facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD5, TSS, or TP greater than
domestic waste as defined in "normal domestic strength wastewater" and not
otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users other than residential users which are units,
agencies or instrumentalities of federal, state or local government discharging
"normal domestic strength wastewater."
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemental under one of the following divisions:
            Division A.   Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
            Division B.   Mining
            Division D.   Manufacturing
            Division E.   Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Sewers
            Division I.   Services
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics: BOD5 - less than 300 mg/l;
suspended solids - less than 350 mg/l; total phosphorus - not greater than 8
mg/l.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business including but not limited to all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The wastewater treatment works
originally constructed for the sole use by Armour and Company, its assigns and/
or successors. This treatment works is intended to be operated and maintained
independent of the city's primary treatment works.
   INFLOW AND INFILTRATION. Clear water flows introduced into the treatment
works from ground water, and runoff of rainfall and snowmelt. The volume of
inflow and infiltration shall be based on the quantity of inflow and
infiltration which the treatment works was designed and constructed to receive.
   MAY The term is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 300 mg/l, an
average suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 350 mg/l, and an
average total phosphorus (TP) concentration not greater than 8 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers and pumping
stations upstream of the treatment plant owned, maintained, operated and
controlled by the city, excluding those connected to the industrial wastewater
treatment works.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESERVE CAPACITY. The difference between the capacity for average flow and
loadings for which the treatment plant was designed and built or improved, and
the annually projected average flow and loadings, but not less than zero.
   RESERVE CAPACITY COSTS. The cost of retiring bonds sold after January 1,
1988 to improve the treatment plant which are not recovered by the levied debt
service charges as a result of reserve capacity.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities, including governmental
entities, whose premises or building is used primarily as a residence for one
or more persons, including dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached
housing, apartments and mobile homes, and which discharges primarily normal
domestic strength sanitary wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the sewer service fund will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Means the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual published by the Office of Management and Budget, latest
edition.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOTAL PHOSPHORUS or TP. All forms of phosphorus present in wastewater as
measured in procedures described in the latest edition of Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater. 
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act
(33 USC 1317(a)), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism,
will cause adverse effects.
   USAGE CHARGE. The sum of user charge and debt service charge.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USER CONNECTION. The sewer piping or conduit intended to convey wastewater
from a users premise or building to the public wastewater collection system.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city, excluding the industrial wastewater treatment works, for the purpose of
the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic
sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures necessary to recycle or reuse
water including improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as standby
treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land which
is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal
of residues resulting from such treatment. WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT is also
defined as the wastewater treatment works excluding the wastewater collection
system.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city ,excluding the industrial wastewater treatment works, for the purpose of
the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal
sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures necessary to
recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers, outfall sewers, collection
sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and their appurtenances;
extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations thereof;
elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as standby
treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land which
is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate disposal
of residues resulting from such treatment.
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 928, passed 11-26-01)
§ 51.112 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Charge System whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of costs to retire bonds
sold after January 1, 1988 to improve the wastewater treatment plant based on
the users proportionate contribution to the design wastewater loading.
   (D)   Each user shall pay a Connection 1 Charge for each user connection to
the treatment works to recover costs of billing administration; and any
treatment works operation, maintenance, and replacement costs attributable to
inflow and infiltration.
   (E)   Each user shall pay a Connection 2 Charge for each user connection to
the treatment works to recover any treatment works debt service costs
attributable to inflow and infiltration.
   (F)   Each Commercial, Industrial, and Governmental User shall pay a
Connection 3 Charge for each user connection to the treatment works to recover
costs to retire bonds sold prior to January 1, 1988 to improve the treatment
works, costs of improvements to the wastewater collection system that are to be
recovered through the sewer service fund, and costs of reserve capacity.
   (G)   Each Residential User shall pay a Connection 3 Charge for each user
connection to the treatment works multiplied by each dwelling unit utilizing
the user connection to recover costs to retire bonds sold prior to January 1,
1988 to improve the treatment works, costs of improvements to the wastewater
collection system that are to be recovered through the sewer service fund, and
costs of reserve capacity.
   (H)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a "Sewer Service Charge System"
developed with the assistance of the City Engineer shall be adopted by
resolution upon enactment of this subchapter, shall be published in the local
newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in sewer
service rates and charges shall be adopted by Council resolution and shall be
published in the local newspaper.
   (I)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as "The Sewer Service Fund." Income from revenues collected will be
expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure,
and make capital improvements.
   (J)   Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of § 51.115.
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.113 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   User classes. Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be
identified as belonging to one of the following user classes: Residential;
Commercial; Industrial; or Governmental. The allocation of users to these
categories for the purpose of assessing user charges and debt service charges
shall be the responsibility of the City Administrator. Allocation of users to
user classes shall be based on the substantive intent of the definitions of
these classes contained herein.
   (B)   Operation, maintenance and replacement costs. The user shall pay
operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in proportion to the user's
proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment
plant, with the minimum rate for loadings of BOD, TSS, and TP being the rate
established for concentrations of 300 mg/l BOD, 350 mg/l TSS, and 8 mg/l TP
(i.e. normal domestic strength wastewater).
   (C)   Unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD, TSS, and TP. Unit costs for
treatment of flow, BOD, TSS, and TP shall be determined and fixed annually in
the sewer service charge system according to the following procedure:
      (1)   Determine the annual OM&R budget.
      (2)   Allocate total annual O & M costs to flow, BOD, TSS, and TP
proportionately; according to the costs of collection, and of the specific
treatment processes required to affect or reduce flow, BOD, TSS, and TP.
      (3)   Allocate total replacement costs to flow, BOD, TSS, TP, and inflow
and infiltration proportionately; according to the replacement costs of the
specific facilities required to convey, affect, or reduce flow, BOD, TSS, TP,
and inflow and infiltration.
      (4)   Divide the sum of O & M and replacement costs attributable to flow,
BOD, TSS, TP respectively, by the total annual billable volume flow plus inflow
and infiltration, and billable loadings of BOD, TSS, and TP to arrive at unit
costs.
      (5)   For purposes of determining user charges, the following definitions
of unit costs shall apply:
      UF -   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal.
      UBOD -   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
      UTSS -   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
      UTP - Unit cost for treatment of TP in $/lb.
      (6)   Subsequent calculations of unit costs shall be according to the
substantive intent of this SSCS.
   (D)   User charges for normal domestic strength users.
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage. For residential users, the monthly billable flow for
the billing periods ending in October through May shall be equal to the water
usage measured in each of the monthly periods. For residential users, the
monthly billable flow for the billing periods ending in June through September
shall be equal to the water usage measured in each of the monthly periods or
the average of the metered water usage of the monthly billing periods ending in
October through May in which usage occurred, whichever is less. For non-
residential users discharging NDSW, billable flow shall be equal to monthly
water usage measured each month.
         (b)   Determination of loadings from metered water usage. The billable
amounts of BOD, TSS, and TP will be calculated from the volume of metered water
usage, as determined above, where the billable quantities will be those
attributable to a wastewater concentration of 300 mg/l BOD, 350 mg/l TSS, and 8
mg/l TP (i.e. normal domestic strength wastewater).
      (2)   Calculating User Charges.
   UC(NDS)    =    (UF x F) + (UBOD x KBOD x F) + (UTSS x KTSS x F) + (UTP x
KTP x F)
   Where: UC(NDS)   =   User charge for treatment of normal domestic strength
wastewater
   UF   =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal
   F   =   Billable flow in Kgal
   UBOD   =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
   KBOD   =   Constant used to calculate the quantity of BOD in lbs/Kgal of NDS
waste as follows:
   KBOD    =    .00834 X 300 mg/l (BOD concentration of NDS waste)
   UTSS   =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
   KTSS   =   Constant used to calculate the quantity of TSS in lbs/Kgal of NDS
waste as follows:
   KTSS    =    .00834 x 350 mg/l (TSS concentration of NDS waste)
   UTP   =   Unit cost for treatment of TP in $/lb.
   KTP   =   Constant used to calculate the quantity of TP in lbs/Kgal of waste
as follows: KTP = .00834 x 8 mg/l
   (E)   User charges for users contributing wastes greater than normal
domestic strength.
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage, or at the discretion of the city, from the measurement
of effluent flow at user's point of discharge. Measurements shall be according
to a regular program prescribed by the city.
         (b)   The billable amounts of BOD, TSS, and TP will be calculated by
the measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city
in keeping with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater and in accordance with Ordinance No. 744, An Ordinance
Establishing Sewer Use Regulations (this Chapter 51).
      (2)   Calculating user charges.
         UC(GNDS) = (UF x F) + (UBOD x QBOD) + (UTSS x QTSS) + (UTP x QTP)
         Where:   UC(GNDS)   =   User charge for treatment of wastewater that
is greater than normal domestic strength
   UF   =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal
   F   =   Billable flow in Kgal
   UBOD   =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
   QBOD   =   Quantity of BOD in lbs.
   UTSS   =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
   QTSS   =   Quantity of TSS in lbs.
   UTP   =   Unit cost for treatment of TP in $/lb.
   QTP   =   Quantity of TP in lbs.
   (F)   The city may, at its discretion, require any non-residential user to
install wastewater flow meters or such additional water meters as may be
necessary to determine wastewater volume. Nonresidential users having a potable
water source other than the municipal water system shall install a meter on the
water supply to allow determination of monthly water usage unless it is
determined by the city that the probable water usage will be less than 2,500
gallons per month in which case the user's usage shall be assumed to equal
2,500 gallons. Residential users having a potable water source other than the
municipal water system shall be assumed to have a monthly usage equal to 5,000
gallons unless the user installs a meter on the water supply to allow
determination of monthly water usage. Meters installed pursuant to this section
shall be of a type approved by the city, equipped with remote registering
recorders, and located at an accessible site on the owner's property.
   (G)   Debt service charge for recovery of treatment plant improvement costs.
Unit costs for debt service of capital expenditures attributable to flow, BOD,
TSS, and Inflow & Infiltration shall be calculated proportionately; according
to the capital costs of the specific facilities required to convey, affect, or
reduce Flow, BOD, TSS, and Inflow & Infiltration.
   (H)   Connection 1 Charge. The cost of billing administration; inflow and
infiltrations proportionate share of treatment works operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs; and for the costs of inflow and infiltration abatement
activities of the city will be recovered through a connection charge based on
these costs and the total number of user connections as follows:
   K1   =    (BA + RII + II + (UF x FII))/(12 x TC)
   Where: K1   =   Monthly Connection 1 Charge
   BA   =   Annual costs for billing administration
   RII   =   Annual replacement costs allocated to I&I
   II   =   Annual I&I abatement program costs
   UF   =   Unit cost for treatment of flow
   FII   =   Annual volume of I&I flow
   TC   =   Total number of user connections
   (I)   Connection 2 Charge. Inflow and infiltration's proportionate share of
treatment works debt retirement costs will be recovered through a connection
charge based on these costs and the total number of user connections as
follows:
   K2    =    (DII + (DF x FII))/(12 x TC)
   Where: K2   =   Monthly Connection 2 Charge
   DII   =   Annual debt service costs allocated to I&I
   DF   =   Unit cost for debt service of capital costs attributable to flow
   FII   =   Annual volume of I&I flow
   TC   =   Total number of user connections
   (J)   Connection 3 Charge. The cost of repaying money bonded prior to
January 1, 1988 for the construction or improvement of the treatment works; the
costs of any improvements made to the wastewater collection system not financed
through special assessment proceedings; and for reserve capacity costs are to
be recovered through a connection charge based on these costs and the sum of
the number of Industrial, Commercial, and Governmental user connections and the
number of dwelling units utilizing the wastewater treatment works as follows:
      (1)   For Residential Users:
         K3 = Con3 x DU
      (2)   For Commercial, Governmental, and Industrial Users:
         K3 = Con3 x UC
         Where:   K3   =   Monthly Connection 3 Charge
         Con3      =   (RC + D87 + CI)/((TCGIC + TDU) x 12)
         DU      =   Number of dwelling units utilizing a residential user
connection
         UC      =   Number of user connections
         RC      =   Annual reserve capacity costs
         D87      =   Annual debt service costs for treatment works
improvements completed prior to January 1, 1988
         CI      =   Costs for collection improvements funded through the sewer
service fund
         TCGIC      =   Total number of commercial, governmental, and
industrial user connections
         TDU      =   Total number of dwelling units utilizing the treatment
works
   (K)   Sewer Service Charge.
      SSC = Us + K1 + K2 + K3
      Where:   SSC   =   Monthly sewer service charge
      Us      =   Uc + Dc = Monthly usage charge
      Uc      =   Monthly user charge
      Dc      =   Monthly debt service charge
      K1      =   Monthly Connection 1 Charge
      K2      =   Monthly Connection 2 Charge
      K3      =   Monthly Connection 3 Charge
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 851, passed 11-24-97; Am. Ord. 928, passed
11-26-01)
§ 51.114 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a "Sewer Service Fund" as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the sewer service fund:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance account.
      (2)   Equipment replacement account.
      (3)   Debt retirement account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the sewer service fund shall be transferred to the "Operation and
Maintenance Account," the "Equipment Replacement Account," and the "Debt
Retirement Account" in accordance with state and federal regulations and the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
insure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the "Equipment Replacement Account" and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the "Equipment Replacement
Account" shall remain in the "Equipment Replacement Account."
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the "Operation
and Maintenance Account."
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.115 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer service fund shall be
administrated according to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City Administrator shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of such costs annually by January 31. The City Council
shall annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated
for the effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the
treatment works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt
retirement. The Council will also determine whether the user charges are
distributed proportionately to each user in accordance with § 51.112(B), being
33 USC 1284(b)(2)(A), as amended. The city shall thereafter, but not later than
the end of the year, reassess and as necessary revise the Sewer Service Charge
System then in use to insure the proportionality of the user charges and to
insure the sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to
which the facilities were constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly basis.
The terms and conditions for payment of sewer service charges shall be as
established by the Water and Light Commission with concurrence by the City
Council for payment of electrical service charges.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.116 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM TAKES PRECEDENCE.
   The sewer service charge system shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent with the
requirements of 33 USC 1284(b)(1)(A) and 40 CFR 35.2140 of the Environmental
Protection Agency's grant regulations.
(Ord. 745, passed 11-27-89)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 51.130 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Administrator or other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.131 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Administrator or other duly authorized employees are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. An
industry may withhold information considered confidential; however, the
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.132 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Administrator or
duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the city employees and the city shall indemnify
the company against loss or damage to its property by city employees and
against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in § 51.087.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
§ 51.133 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Administrator or other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the
purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities lying within
the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 744, passed 11-27-89)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
Collection and Disposal
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Residential collection service
   
52.03   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
52.04   Multiple residence buildings
   
52.05   Premises not used for residential purposes
   
52.06   Hauling regulations
   
52.07   Establishment of service charges
   
52.08   Billing and payment of service charges
   
52.09   Delinquent accounts
Separation and Collection of Recyclable Materials
   
52.20   Purpose
   
52.21   Definitions
   
52.22   Source separation of recyclable materials
   
52.23   Collection of recyclable materials
   
52.24   Anti-scavenging
   
52.25   Prohibition of refuse and yard waste
   
52.26   Disposal of recyclables
Removal of Unwholesome Substance and Solid Waste by City
   
52.30   Definitions
   
52.31   Unwholesome substance left, brought or deposited within the city
   
52.32   Notice by the city and demand for removal
   
52.33   Time to remove
   
52.34   Service of notice
   
52.35   Unwholesome material on boulevard
   
52.36   Appeal from costs
COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENCE. Any living quarters, including single and multi-family dwellings.
Each unit in a multiple-family dwelling shall be a RESIDENCE.
   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICES. The solid waste collection service provided
by the city, its agents, employees or contractors.
   SOLID WASTE. For the purpose of §§ 52.01 through 52.09, the term SOLID WASTE
shall be defined to include garbage, rubbish and non-recyclable paper but shall
not include concrete, rock, dirt, construction materials, trees, cement pieces,
yard waste or items of extreme bulk or weight that are beyond the capability of
one person to lift. Specifically excluded are recyclable materials.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
§ 52.02 RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION SERVICE.
   The municipal collection service of the city is established to provide for
the regular collection and disposal of solid waste from every residence within
the city. The contractor shall provide each residence within the city with a
95-gallon container (65-gallon for citizens 62 years of age and over at their
request), which shall remain the property of the contractor. The service shall
be supervised by the City Administrator or his or her designee. The exception
to residential collection service is for multiple-family dwelling units that
contract for service with a commercial refuse hauler.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 795, passed 11-8-93; Am. Ord. 929, passed
12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.03 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Toxic or hazardous materials and substances shall not be stored or
disposed of with regular solid waste but shall be stored in a safe location in
accordance with applicable state requirements.
   (B)   Containers utilized for solid waste storage shall be kept in locations
that do not create a nuisance. In no case shall the containers be kept beyond
the alley line or in front of the established building line or on boulevards,
except within 24 hours of collection.
   (C)   All solid waste accumulated on any premises shall be placed and
maintained in containers provided by the contractor. Such containers shall be
maintained in a good, clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times. Solid
waste shall be picked up at each residence once each week. All solid waste
shall be placed inside the container provided by the contractor. As part of the
weekly service, the contractor will not pick up solid waste which is outside
the provided container. Residents that require a special pickup for items that
cannot be placed inside the container must make arrangements with the
contractor. No solid waste shall be placed for collection in county recycling
containers.
   (D)   Any solid waste on the boulevard or private property not in compliance
with these regulations is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be abated
by the property tenant or owner of the private property on which the solid
waste is located or by the property tenant or owner of the private property
directly adjacent to the boulevard on which the solid waste is located within
12 hours after receiving notice from the city.
   (E)   The owner or occupant of every residence shall be entitled to dispose
of solid waste by the residential collection service upon compliance with the
conditions and regulations established by ordinance or resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 795, passed 11-8-93; Am. Ord. 929, passed
12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.04 MULTIPLE RESIDENCE BUILDINGS.
   Multiple residence buildings having more than three residence units shall
contract directly with a commercial refuse hauler for the collection and
disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.05 PREMISES NOT USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES.
   The owner or occupant of any premises not used for residential purposes
shall dispose of solid waste at their own expense.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
§ 52.06 HAULING REGULATIONS.
   When hauling solid waste, yard waste or recyclables over public streets
within the city, any person hauling such materials, whether for residential
collection service, commercial service or private hauling, shall comply with
the following provisions:
   (A)   Solid waste shall be hauled in a closed or covered compactor
collection truck;
   (B)   Recyclables and yard waste shall be hauled in a closed covered
vehicle;
   (C)   Collection vehicles for solid waste shall be watertight and
constructed to prevent the escape of odors and contents and to screen solid
waste from public view;
   (D)   Vehicles utilized for collection shall be kept in a sanitary
condition; and
   (E)   When transporting solid waste, yard waste and recyclables, such
vehicles shall be loaded and unloaded in such a manner that contents will not
fall, spill or be dragged upon the ground or streets.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.07 ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The City Council shall from time to time establish a schedule of monthly
service charges, including minimum charges for the removal and disposal of
solid waste by the residential collection service from all residential
premises. A minimum monthly charge shall include the following: annual city-
wide trash fee; county solid waste fee; state tax; any additional fees as may
be required by the state, county or city. The service charges shall be imposed
upon the owner or occupant of each residence, whether or not the residential
collection service is utilized by that residence. Any owner upon whom a service
charge is imposed may apply for and receive a credit or refund, if the charge
has been paid for any period in excess of three months for the difference
between a minimum monthly charge and standard monthly charge, providing that no
solid waste or recyclables was accumulated or collected on the premises of such
residence for that period. Any application for credit or refund shall be made
within 30 days of re-establishing the service. The City Administrator shall be
responsible for granting or denying the application, with such decision being
final. Any person who submits a false affidavit in support of an application
for credit or refund provided herein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to the penalty provisions of § 10.99.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.08 BILLING AND PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   The service charge for solid waste collection and disposal for residential
units shall be placed on the city utility bill for such residence and shall be
indicated thereon. All such service charges shall be due and payable at the
Department of Utilities and shall be deemed to be for the period in which the
utility bill is incurred. Payment of the service charge for solid waste
collection and disposal shall be made with the city utility bill and may not be
made separately. All applications for solid waste service shall be accompanied
by a returnable deposit in an amount to be determined by the Water and Light
Commission.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
§ 52.09 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   When service charges for solid waste collection and disposal are not paid
when due, the City Clerk shall add such service and collection charges as may
be established by the Council from time to time. On October 1 of each year, the
City Clerk shall cause an assessment to be levied against each residence for
which service charges due and payable on or before September 1 of that year
have not been paid. Such assessment shall be in an amount equal to the unpaid
service charges plus the penalties thereon, if any and such assessment shall be
certified to the County Auditor and collected and remitted in the same manner
as assessments for local improvements.
(Ord. 768, passed 7-8-91; Am. Ord. 929, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 967, passed
6-14-04)
SEPARATION AND COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS
§ 52.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city, by regulating the storage and disposal of
waste materials and by reducing the amount of waste generated by mandatory
separation of recyclable materials.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NONRECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Solid waste, refuse, construction debris and
materials for which there are no appropriate existing recycling markets.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, educational and medical institution,
association, society, corporation or group.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
      (1)   Aluminum cans: Empty and dry.
      (2)   Tin food cans: Empty and rinsed, labels removed if possible.
      (3)   Glass bottles and jars: Empty and rinsed, caps removed, unbroken
clear, green and brown glass.
      (4)   Plastic bottles and jugs: All containers must be rinsed, cleaned
out and decapped. The approved numbered plastic bottles, jugs and containers
commonly identified as PETE and HDPE.
      (5)   Newspaper: Bagged or bundled, dry and clean. Place on top in
recycle container or beside container.
      (6)   Corrugated boxes: Broken down and flattened. Place beside recycling
container.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes that do not cause the destruction of the materials in a manner that
precludes further use.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. To divide or separate out from the main body, to make
distinguishable from, to isolate, to seclude.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 771, passed 9-9-91; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-
14-04)
§ 52.22 SOURCE SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   Every person within the city will be required to separate recyclable
materials from nonrecyclable materials and store such materials in a clean and
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.23 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   The City Council shall determine the frequency of collection for
recyclable materials and shall designate a collector and transporter of those
materials. All materials to be collected shall be in the condition specified in
§ 52.21 under the definition of "Recyclable Materials" and placed in approved
Nobles County recycling containers.
   (B)   The city requires that persons from which pickups of recyclable
materials are made to place those items at either the street curb line or alley
property line as may be designated by the City Administrator.
   (C)   All persons shall maintain the recyclable containers in a sanitary
manner and replace damaged containers at their own expense within ten days of
receiving notice to do so from the recyclables collector contractor.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.24 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   (A)   Ownership of the designated recyclable materials set out for
collection shall be vested in the collector and transporter of recyclable
materials designated by the City Council. It shall be unlawful and an offense
against this section for any person, firm or corporation other than the owner,
lessee or occupant of a residential dwelling, commercial establishment or
institution, to pick up said materials for his or her own use.

   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude persons from disposing of
recyclable materials with commercial recycles and salvage yards or with
nonprofit organizations, school groups, service clubs or others that conduct
recycling drives for the purpose of community clean-up or organizational fund
drives.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.25 PROHIBITION OF REFUSE AND YARD WASTE.
   The placing of refuse, yard waste and nonrecyclable materials in the
recyclable container is prohibited.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.26 DISPOSAL OF RECYCLABLES.
   Recyclables collected from premises shall not be deposited in any landfill,
burned, be deposited or distributed in any way or manner which is contrary to
applicable law, statute, ordinance, code provision, rule or regulation.
Provided, however that the recyclables which are deposited in a landfill or
burned pursuant to this subchapter receive written approval granted by the
county and the city. Residents shall take such action as is reasonable under
the circumstances to determine that recyclables are not disposed of contrary to
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 756, passed 6-11-90; Am. Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
REMOVAL OF UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCE AND SOLID WASTE BY CITY
§ 52.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCE. Rubbish, paper, concrete, rock, dirt, construction
materials, trees, tree limbs, cement pieces, yard waste, waste material,
refuse, garbage, trash, debris, excrement, urine, offal composed of animal
matter or vegetable matter or both or any noxious or offensive matter whatever,
including but not limited to any discarded dead animal, dead bird, dead fish,
chemicals, chemical compound, petroleum product or compound, automobile part or
accessory, tire, wheel, furniture, appliances, junk, paper, cardboard, lid,
bottle, cap, carton, wrapper, box, wooden object, plastic object, clothing,
cloth, metal object, rubber object, leather object, hide, feathers, grass
clippings, leaves, cut weeds, dead trees, broken trees, cut trees and branches
cut from trees or bushes, inoperable lawn mowers and other such parts or
equipment. Solely for the purposes of 52.30 through 52.36, all materials which
have been previously defined in this chapter as “solid waste” or as a
“recyclable material” shall be considered an UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCE. UNWHOLESOME
SUBSTANCES shall not include yard wastes which are being composted at an
authorized facility or which are being composted in compost holding units which
meet the following specifications:
UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCES shall not include yard wastes which are being composted
at an authorized facility or which are being composted in compost holding units
which meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Do not exceed 125 cubic feet in volume;
      (2)   Are constructed of wood, wire, metal or plastic, excluding plastic
bags;
      (3)   Are a stationary unit designed for composting or a rotating unit
designed for composting;
      (4)   Are located in the rear yard of the property and screened or fenced
so the unit is not readily visible from any adjacent lot, street or alley;
      (5)   Are maintained to minimize odors; and
      (6)   Are not allowed to attract rodents or to become a health or safety
hazard.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04 ; Am. Ord. 979, passed 7-11-05 )
§ 52.31 UNWHOLESOME SUBSTANCE LEFT, BROUGHT OR DEPOSITED WITHIN THE CITY.
   If an unwholesome substance is brought, left or deposited within the city in
any manner not authorized by law, the city may demand that the owner or
occupant of the premises on which the unwholesome material has been brought,
left or deposited remove, in a lawful manner, the unwholesome substance from
the premises on which the unwholesome substance has been left, brought or
deposited.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.32 NOTICE BY THE CITY AND DEMAND FOR REMOVAL.
   If the city wishes to bill the owner or occupant for the cost of removal of
unwholesome material, prior to removal of the unwholesome material by the city,
a representative of the city shall give the owner and the occupant of the
premises on which the unwholesome material has been brought, left or deposited
notice of the existence of such deposit. The representative of the city may
also demand removal of the wholesome material. If a demand for removal of the
unwholesome material is made in the notice, the notice shall also include a
time period within which the unwholesome material must be removed. In addition,
the notice shall advise the owner and occupant of the premises that after the
expiration of the time period, the city may cause the removal of the
unwholesome material. The notice shall also advise the owner and occupant of
the premises that the cost of such removal by the city shall be billed to the
owner and occupant of the premises and further advise the owner and occupant
that unpaid costs of removal shall be a lien upon the property and may be
collected in the same manner as a special assessment.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.33 TIME TO REMOVE.
   Unless the unwholesome material is determined to be dangerous to the public
health and safety, the time period within which the unwholesome material must
be removed shall be ten days. If the unwholesome material does present or will
within a period of less than ten days present a danger to the public health and
safety, the time period during which the owner and occupant of the premises can
remove the unwholesome material may be reduced to a time period which will
protect the public health and safety. If immediate removal is required to
protect the public health and safety, the city may immediately cause removal of
the unwholesome material.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.34 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice to remove unwholesome material shall be served upon the owner and
occupant of the premises upon which the unwholesome material is located by
depositing the notice in the U.S. mail addressed to the last known address of
the owner and to the last known address of the occupant, if the owner and the
occupant are different persons or entities. The notice to remove the
unwholesome material shall also be conspicuously posted on the property on
which the unwholesome material is located.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.35 UNWHOLESOME MATERIAL ON BOULEVARD.
   For the purpose of §§ 52.30 through 52.36, a boulevard shall be considered a
part of the property which is directly adjacent to the non-street side of the
boulevard.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
§ 52.36 APPEAL FROM COSTS.
   If the owner or occupant of property believes the cost of removal of the
unwholesome material should not be billed to the owner or occupant, the owner
or occupant may appeal to the Legislative Hearing Officer in accordance with
the procedure set forth in Chapter 31. Regardless of any contractual
relationship between the owner and occupant of the property, the owner shall
always be billed for the cost of removal and there shall be no appeal from such
billing except for an appeal which has as a subject the amount of the billing
or the necessity for removal.
(Ord. 967, passed 6-14-04)
CHAPTER 53: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Service pipes; connections
   
53.02   Fire protection provisions for certain types of buildings
   
53.03   Unlawful to open fire hydrant
   
53.04   Lawn sprinkling; water emergency conditions and water shortages
§ 53.01 SERVICE PIPES; CONNECTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, not expressly authorized by the city, to tap
a distribution pipe. The nature of all connections with mains shall be
specified by the city.
('69 Code, § 3.04, Subd. 1, 2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.02 FIRE PROTECTION PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF BUILDINGS.
   Any regular municipal water customer with unique fire protection
requirements, as determined by the city, may connect the street mains with
hydrants, large pipes and house couplings for use in case of fire only and free
of charge for such use but at their own installation expense, provided that at
least one standard fire hose connection is placed on the exterior of the
building.
('69 Code, § 3.04, Subd. 3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.03 UNLAWFUL TO OPEN FIRE HYDRANT.
   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire Department or
another person duly authorized by the city in pursuance of lawful purpose, to
open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in any manner
interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person so authorized to
deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any hydrant key or
wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their lawful use.
('69 Code, § 3.04, Subd. 4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 53.04 LAWN SPRINKLING; WATER EMERGENCY CONDITIONS AND WATER SHORTAGES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use water from the municipal system
for the purpose of sprinkling lawns or gardens; provided, however, that a
property which has been designated with a street address ending in an even
number may be sprinkled on even numbered days of the calendar prior to 10:00
a.m. and after 5:00 p.m. and a property which has been designated with a street
address ending in an odd number may be sprinkled on odd numbered days of the
calendar prior to 10:00 a.m. and after 5:00 p.m. (’69 Code, § 3.04, Subd. 5)
   (B)   Whenever the Water and Light Commission shall determine that a
shortage of water supply threatens the city or any part thereof, the Commission
may by notice, posted, public address, mailed or published in the legal
newspaper, limit the times and hours during which water from the municipal
system may be used for lawn and garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, or
any other uses specified in the notice. The limitation may be up to and
including a total ban of all water from the municipal system for uses specified
in the notice. Following two days subsequent to said notice, any person who
shall cause or permit water to be used contrary to the provisions of said
notice shall be subject to an administrative fine which shall be determined
pursuant to a schedule established by the City Council. The failure by any
person to pay an administrative fine within ten days after the issuance of
notice of the fine, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Continued
violation is hereby prohibited, and each day of violation may be considered as
a separate offense under this division (B). Violation of this section will also
be a violation of the city water department policies which could subject the
account to additional penalties up to, and including, the discontinuance of
water service.
   (C)   In the event of a severe shortage of city water or other emergency
affecting the city water supply, the Mayor may issue a proclamation entirely
forbidding the use of any water from the municipal system for those purposes
specified at certain specified times or at all times during the period of such
shortage or emergency. The violation by any person of a Mayor's proclamation
issued pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 6.65) (Ord. 551, eff. 1-10-77; Am. Ord. 1085, passed 6-8-15)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Findings and purposes
   
54.02   Establishment
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Storm water utility fee and factors
   
54.05   Credits
   
54.06   Exemptions
   
54.07   Payment of fee
   
54.08   Appeal of fee
   
54.09   Certification of past due fees on taxes
   
54.10   Storm water protection
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the efficient, economic and
safe operation of the storm water system for the protection of the health,
safety and general welfare of the public within the city.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city's storm water system shall be operated as a public utility
(hereinafter called the "Storm Water Utility"), pursuant to M.S. § 444.075,
from which revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this section
and state law.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ANNUAL UTILITY REVENUE. The estimated annual expenditures by the City of
Worthington for planning and inventories, capital expenditures, personnel and
equipment and operation of the storm water utility, in accordance with
established city policy.
   STORM WATER UTILITY FEE. The annual charge developed for each parcel of
land.
   UTILITY FACTOR. The ratio of runoff volume, in inches, for a particular land
use, to the runoff volume, in inches for an average residential unit, assuming
a two-inch rainfall and Natural Resources Conservation Services ("NRCS") "Type
C" soil conditions.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.04 STORM WATER UTILITY FEE AND FACTORS.
   (A)    The Storm Water Utility Fee shall be determined by first determining
the percentage of total runoff in Worthington which is attributed to
residential properties. The annual fee per acre for residential properties is
the product of the runoff percentage and the storm water utility revenue,
divided by the estimated total acres of residential land use in the City of
Worthington. All residential parcels shall be considered as having an area of
.24 acres for purposes of this chapter. The per acre fee for all other
individual parcels shall be defined as the product of the residential per acre
fee, the appropriate utility factor and the total acreage of the parcel.
Residential parcels shall be assessed on a per household basis.
   (B)   The utility factors for various land uses are as follows:
Classification Land Use                                     Utility Factor
1              Residential, including individual Townhouses 1.00
2              Multi-Family (4 units or more)               1.48
3              Apartments/Condominiums                      1.48
               (4 units or more)
4              Commercial                                   2.01
5              Industrial                                   1.67
6              Public/Quasi Public                          2.01
7              Parks/Open Space/Cemeteries                  Exempt
8              Road Right-of-Way                            Exempt
9              Lake/Streams/Wetlands                        Exempt
10             Vacant                                       Exempt
 
   (C)   The annual fee per acre for residential is $409.27.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03; Am. Ord. 975, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 981, passed
12-12-05; Am. Ord. 997, passed 12-11-06; Am. Ord. 1009, passed 1-14-08; Am.
Ord. 1020, passed 11-24-08; Am. Ord. 1031, passed 12-14-09; Am. Ord. 1038,
passed 11-8-10; Am. Ord. 1049, passed 12-12-11; Am. Ord. 1062, passed 12-10-
12; Am. Ord. 1089, passed 12-28-15; Am. Ord. 1101, passed 12-12-16; Am. Ord.
1108, passed 12-11-17; Am. Ord. 1128, passed 11-26-18; Am. Ord. 1154, passed
12-9-19; Am. Ord. 1176, passed 11-22-21; Am. Ord. 1192, passed 12-12-22; Am.
Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-23; Am. Ord. 1208, passed 11-25-24)
§ 54.05 CREDITS.
   The Council may adopt policies by resolution for adjustment of the storm
water utility fees. Information to justify a fee adjustment must be supplied by
the property owner. Such adjustments of fees shall not be retroactive. Credits
will be reviewed regularly by city staff with a recommendation to the Council
for final action.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from the storm water utility fee:
   (A)   Public road right-of-way;
   (B)   Lakes;
   (C)   Wetlands.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.07 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   One-twelfth of the storm water utility fee shall be billed each month along
with other municipal utility bills. The terms and conditions for payment of
sewer service charges shall be as established by the Water and Light Commission
with concurrence by the City Council.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.08 APPEAL OF FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the storm water utility
fee believes that a particular assigned fee is incorrect, such a person may
request that the fee be recomputed.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.09 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES.
   If any three consecutive storm water utility fees have not been paid when
due, then a penalty as set forth in
§ 54.07 shall be added to the amount due. Any such past due fees may then be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes on the
following year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, Subdivision 3. In addition, the City
of Worthington shall also have the right to bring a civil action or to take
other legal remedies to collect unpaid fees.
(Ord. 956, passed 12-8-03)
§ 54.10 STORM WATER PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to control, reduce, and to the
extent possible, eliminate storm water pollution along with soil erosion and
sedimentation within the city. It establishes standards and specification for
conservation practices and planning activities, which minimize storm water
pollution, soil erosion, and sedimentation.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of the waste controls and illicit discharge and
inspections and enforcement portions of this section apply to all areas within
the city at all times. All other provisions of this section shall apply to all
sites on which a land disturbance activity occurs or has occurred since the
date of the enactment of this section.
   (C)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined below, the words or phrases
used in this section shall have the same definition as is in the current NPDES
General Construction Stormwater Permit MNR100001. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words SHALL and MUST are always mandatory and
not merely directive. For the purpose of this section, certain terms and words
are hereby defined as follows:
      EMERGENCY ACTION. Any action of the city needed to abate, remedy, or
correct a condition that presents or may present an imminent or substantial
danger to the health or welfare of persons downstream, or substantial danger to
the environment.
      ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system
including but not limited to any conveyances which allow any non-storm water
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drain system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency,
or any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to
the storm drain system unless such discharge is from:
         (a)   Water line flushing, landscape irrigation, diverted stream
flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water infiltration,
uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable water sources,
foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water, springs,
water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering, individual
residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
         (b)   Flow from firefighting, and other discharges specified in
writing by the City Engineer as being necessary to protect public health and
safety.
         (c)   Discharges associated with dye testing. However, this activity
requires a verbal notification to the City Engineer prior to the time of the
test.
         (d)   Any non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under the authority of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the
permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and
provided that written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm
drain system.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands
within the city's jurisdiction, including construction, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land. Within the context of
this section, LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY does not mean:
         (a)   Minor land disturbance activities, such as home gardens and an
individual's home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work, which will not
result in sediments entering the storm water system;
         (b)   Activities involving movement of less than 200 cubic yards of
soil and disturbing a surface area less than 10,000 square feet that will not
result in sediments entering waters of the state;
         (c)   Tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural,
or silvicultural (forestry) crops; or
         (d)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have otherwise required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, except for the emergency. If such a
plan would have been required, then the disturbed land area shall be shaped and
stabilized in accordance with the city's requirements as soon as possible.
      MPCA CONSTRUCTION STORMWATER GENERAL PERMIT (CSW PERMIT). Permit
MNR100001 authorizing the discharge of storm water associated with construction
activity issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) under the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)/State Disposal System
Permit Program. CSW PERMIT shall refer to the most current general permit in
effect at the time of plan submittal.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). A permit program
administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and
authorized under the Clean Water Act of 1972, to regulate point source
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States.
      OWNER. Any person holding title to or having a divided or undivided
interest in the property or site.
      OWNER REPRESENTATIVE. A contractor or other agent of an owner who is
responsible for implementation of a Small Site Erosion Control Plan or Storm
Water Pollution Prevention Plan. The OWNER REPRESENTATIVE shall be as
identified on the application for a CWS Permit or watershed district permit. An
OWNER REPRESENTATIVE is responsible to inform the owner of the owner's
financial obligations in the event the representative fails to properly
implement a Small Site Erosion Control Plan or Storm Water Pollution Prevention
Plan.
      SMALL SITE. A site on which a land disturbance activity occurs involving
the disturbance of less than one acre of surface area.
      SMALL SITE EROSION CONTROL PLAN. Erosion control plan developed in
accordance with the requirements of the watershed district rules pertaining to
erosion control on construction sites smaller than one acre.
      STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN or SWPPP. An erosion and sediment
control plan developed in accordance with the requirements of the MN General
Permit to Discharge Stormwater Associated with Construction Activity No. MN
R100001 in place at the time of submittal.
      WATERSHED DISTRICT. The Heron Lake Watershed District or Okabena-Ocheda
Watershed District, whichever district has jurisdiction over the site.
   (D)   Waste controls and illicit discharge.
      (1)   Illegal disposal.
         (a)   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain, or keep
or permit to be thrown, placed, left, maintained or kept, any refuse, rubbish,
garbage, or any other discarded or abandoned objects, articles, or
accumulations, in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet,
catch basin conduit or drainage structure, business place, or upon any public
or private plot of land in the city, so that the same might be or become a
pollutant, except in containers, recycling bags, or other lawfully established
waste disposal facility.
         (b)   No person shall intentionally dispose of grass, leaves, dirt, or
other landscape debris into a water resource buffer, street, road, alley, catch
basin, culvert, curb, gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, wetland, flood
control channel, canal, storm drain or any fabricated natural conveyance.
      (2)   Illicit discharges and connections.
         (a)   No person shall cause any illicit discharge to enter the
municipal storm water system.
         (b)   No person shall use any illicit connection to intentionally
convey non-storm water to the city storm water system.
      (3)   Good housekeeping provisions. Any owner or occupant of property
within the city shall comply with the following good housekeeping requirements:
         (a)   No person shall leave, deposit, discharge, dump, or otherwise
expose any chemical or septic waste in an area where discharge to streets or
storm drain system may occur. This section shall apply to both actual and
potential discharges.
         (b)   Storage of materials, machinery, and equipment.
            1.   Objects, such as motor vehicle parts, containing grease, oil
or other hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous
materials, shall not be stored in areas susceptible to runoff or discharge to a
storm water system.
            2.   Any machinery or equipment that is to be repaired or
maintained in areas susceptible to runoff shall be placed in a confined area to
contain or collect leaks, spills, or discharges without discharge to the storm
water system.
         (c)   Removal of debris and residue. Fuel and chemical residue or
other types of potentially harmful material, such as animal waste, garbage or
batteries, which is located in an area susceptible to runoff, shall be removed
as soon as possible and disposed of properly. Household hazardous waste shall
not be place in a trash container.
         (d)   Commercial, institutional, and non-NPDES permitted industrial
facilities storing salt and salt-containing materials outdoors must meet
minimum standards for storage and handling.
            1.   Designated salt storage areas must be covered or indoors;
            2.   Located outside of areas likely to flood or to be exposed to
storm water or snowmelt runoff;
            3.   Located on an impervious surface; and
            4.   Protection practices to reduce exposure when transferring
material in designated salt storage areas such as but not limited to sweeping,
diversions, and/or containment must be implemented.
   (E)   Permanent storm water management systems and erosion and sediment
control.
      (1)   No land disturbing activity on any site other than a small site
shall be conducted prior to obtaining coverage under the CWS Permit specific to
the project.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment controls on all sites other than small sites
shall meet or exceed the requirements of the MN General Permit to Discharge
Stormwater Associated with Construction Activity No. MN R100001 in place at the
time of submittal as modified below:
         (a)   All grading plans and building site surveys must be reviewed by
the city for the effectiveness of erosion control measures in the context of
site topography and drainage.
         (b)   Easements. If a storm water management plan involves directing
some or all of the site’s runoff, the applicant or designated representative
shall obtain from adjacent property owners any necessary easements or other
property interests concerning the flowing of such water.
      (3)   Erosion control on small sites shall, at a minimum, meet the
requirements of the rules of the watershed district.
      (4)   No land disturbing activity that requires a city permit shall be
conducted before all required watershed district and MPCA permits required for
the project have been obtained.
      (5)   Storm water controls.
         (a)   Sites that disturb less than 1.0 acres shall be designed to
control runoff rate so as to not cause downstream flooding or erosion.
         (b)   Sites that disturb 1.0 acre or more shall provide permanent
BMPs, with highest preference given to green infrastructure techniques and
practices necessary to meet the following conditions on the site of
construction activity to the maximum extent practicable.
            1.   Storm water release rates and volume from the site on an
annual average basis shall not increase over the predevelopment 24-hour two-
year, ten-year and 100-year peak storm discharges rates, based on the last ten
years of how that land was used. Also accelerated channel erosion must not
occur as a result of the proposed activity.
            2.   Permanent best management practices for sites where the sum of
new and reconstructed impervious surface is 1.0 or more acres shall be designed
to meet the requirements for post-construction storm water management as
described in the MN Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems General Permit
No. MNR040000 in place at the time of submittal.
            3.   Applicants shall provide documentation showing rate, volume,
and water quality compliance. Calculations shall be by a methodology listed in
the MPCA Stormwater Manual or other method approved by the city.
   (F)   Oil and grease control. Where the potential for pollution by oil,
grease, or both, exists, the city may require installation of an oil and grease
removal device designed to handle the volume and type of material anticipated.
   (G)   (1)   Permanent BMPs installed to fulfill the requirements of this
section shall be maintained in compliance with the approved maintenance plan.
Where no plan is in place they shall be maintained in compliance with accepted
Industry Standard and MPCA recommendations. No permanent BMPs shall be removed
or altered in such a way to decrease effectiveness without:
         (a)   Authorization of the city; and
         (b)   Providing new or improved structural storm water best management
practices providing or exceeding that amount lost due to the alteration or
removal.
      (2)   Inspections and maintenance of temporary and permanent BMPs shall
be performed by the applicant during construction.
      (3)   Inspections and maintenance shall meet or exceed the criteria
listed in the MN General Permit to Discharge Stormwater Associated with
Construction Activity No. MN R100001 except as modified below:
         (a)   All off-site tracking shall be removed by the end of the
business day unless otherwise authorized by the city.
         (b)   The application shall provide site access during construction to
the city for compliance inspections and shall make applicant’s records of
maintenance and inspections available to the city upon request.
            1.   The city shall notify the applicant of deficiencies identified
during city inspections.
            2.   The applicant shall correct deficiencies identified by the
city within the timeframe requested by the city.
            3.   Where cooperation is withheld, construction stop orders may be
issued by the city, until all erosion and sediment control deficiencies are
corrected to the satisfaction of the city.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain and
dedicate to the city any necessary property interests to allow access to the
storm water management facilities for inspection and maintenance purposes.
      (5)   Where the City Council authorizes the construction of private storm
water management facilities, the applicant shall in an agreement to be recorded
against the properties being developed provide the following:
         (a)   List all permanent BMPs covered by the agreement.
         (b)   Designate the responsible party for inspection and maintenance
of each BMP.
         (c)   Detail a maintenance plan for each BMP.
         (d)   Provide access in perpetuity for inspection of the facilities by
the city.
         (e)   Provide that if upon written notice by the city that corrective
actions are required the responsible party fails to make the necessary
corrective action. The city may enter the property and perform the required
maintenance with the cost of such maintenance to be paid by the property owner.
         (f)   If the expense is not paid. the expense will be made a special
assessment against the property concerned.
   (H)   Plan review.
      (1)   The SWPPP or Small Site Erosion Control Plan and applicable permit
application for any land disturbing activity that requires a building permit or
other development permit shall be submitted with the application for such a
permit. The permit application shall be considered incomplete until a complete
SWPPP or Small Site Erosion Control Plan is submitted.
      (2)   Each SWPPP or Small Site Erosion Control Plan shall be reviewed by
the City Engineer for compliance with required standards. Any SWPPP found to
not substantially meet all requirements shall be returned to the owner or owner
representative for correction. No city permits for land disturbance will be
issued until a revision meeting the required standards is received and reviewed
by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Modifications to a SWPPP or Small Site Erosion Control Plan shall
be submitted to the city for review.
      (4)   Plan Review by the City Engineer or delegated staff shall not
relieve the property owner and contractor of responsibility or liability for
compliance with required permits from MPCA and the watershed.
   (I)   Inspections. Inspections as defined in this provision do not fulfill
the inspections and maintenance requirements as defined in the NPDES Permit for
Construction Activities.
      (1)   The city may conduct inspections of any site on which a land
disturbing activity is occurring on a regular basis to monitor erosion and
sediment control practices. In all cases the inspectors will attempt to work
with the owner or owner's representative to maintain proper erosion and
sediment control at all sites. In cases where cooperation is withheld,
construction stop-work orders may be issued by the city until erosion and
sediment control measures meet the requirements of this section.
      (2)   The city may conduct inspections of all privately-owned storm water
treatment systems and devices at any reasonable time.
      (3)   The city may enter upon any premises subject to regulation under
this section as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter.
      (4)   An owner shall promptly allow the city and its authorized
representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:
         (a)   Enter upon any premises for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations, inspections or
surveys as;
         (b)   Bring such equipment upon any premises as is necessary to
conduct such inspections, surveys and investigations;
         (c)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of an NPDES Storm Water Permit;
         (d)   Inspect storm water pollution control measures; and/or
         (e)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to storm
water discharges.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to the safe and easy access
of such an inspection shall be promptly removed upon the inspector's request.
The cost of providing such access shall be born by the owner.
      (6)   If a facility owner or operator has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the facility owner or operator shall make the necessary arrangements
to allow access to representatives of the city.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which storm water is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this section, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this section or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant
from any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (J)   Enforcement response procedures.
      (1)   Actions to ensure compliance until final stabilization has been
achieved. The city may take the following action in the event of a failure by
owner or owner representative to meet the terms of this section:
         (a)   The City Engineer may issue a written stop-work order upon his
or her determination that construction, excavation or any other activity
regulated by this section is taking place in violation of an NPDES Storm Water
Permit for Construction Activities, a watershed district permit, or this
section. The stop-work order shall detail the violations, the remedies
necessary to correct the violations, and the time frame allowed in which the
property owner is to correct the violations.
         (b)   Failure on the part of the contractor, owner, or other permittee
to address the issue detailed in the written stop-work order within the
timeframe indicated in the stop-work order may result in the city arranging to
have the work completed by others, the cost of which will be the responsibility
of the permittee.
         (c)   The order shall also indicate that the property owner has ten
business days from the receipt of the stop-work order to appeal the order to
the City Council.
         (d)   The Clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following
completion of maintenance or repair, list the total unpaid charges along with
all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The Council may then spread the charges against such
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year
or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as Council may determine in each
case.
      (2)   Bring actions against the owner to require maintenance and repair
of any privately-owned storm water management system.
   (K)   Response time and notification.
      (1)   For all land disturbing activities until final stabilization has
been achieved.
         (a)   The schedule for inspection, maintenance, and repair of all
erosion and sediment control measures shall be conducted as required in the
NPDES Storm Water Permit for Construction Activities and Watershed District
rules.
         (b)   If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site, the owner or
owner representative shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan,
obtain the right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the
cleanup and restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining
property owner's permission. In no case, unless written approval is received
from the city, may more than seven calendar days go by without corrective
action being taken. When restoration to wetlands and other resources are
required, the applicant shall work with the appropriate agency to ensure that
the work is done properly.
         (c)   If eroded soils (including tracked soils from construction
activities) enter or appear likely to enter streets, wetlands, or other water
bodies, cleanup and repair shall be immediate. The owner or owner
representative shall provide all traffic control and flagging required to
protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
         (d)   Should the owner or owner representative fail to respond to the
failure of a sediment or erosion control measure as required herein, the city
may initiate actions to conduct remedial and corrective actions required. Any
notification required will be to the owner or owner representative. Except
during an emergency action, 48 hours after notification by the city or 72 hours
after the failure of erosion control measures, whichever is less, the city at
its discretion, may begin corrective work. Such notification should be in
writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as quickly
as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the owner or owner
representative, the city has been unable to establish contact, the city may
proceed with remedial and corrective work.
      (2)   Maintenance and repair of a privately-owned storm water management
systems.
         (a)   The inspection, maintenance, and repair of all privately-owned
storm water management systems shall be conducted as required in the NPDES
Storm Water Permit for Construction Activities.
         (b)   Should the owner fail to maintain and repair a privately-owned
storm water management system as required herein, the city may initiate actions
to conduct required maintenance and repairs. Any required notification shall be
by certified mail to the owner. The city, at its discretion, may begin
maintenance or repairs at any time following the expiration of the following
time periods allowed for the owner to complete all required maintenance or
repairs:
            1.   Within 365 calendar days of the owner's receipt of a
notification to remove accumulated sediment from a retention basin;
            2.   Within 60 calendar days of the owner's receipt of a
notification to perform any repair or maintenance, other than removal of
accumulated sediment from a retention basin, needed to remedy a condition that
is not resulting in erosion or a visible release of sediment. Such notification
shall be mailed on or before October 1 of each year; and/or
            3.   Within 14 calendar days of the owner's receipt of a
notification to perform any repair or maintenance needed to remedy a condition
that is resulting in erosion or a visible release of sediment.
      (3)   Emergency action. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the
section, the city may enter property to repair, alter, or remove any erosion or
sediment control measure or storm water management system as needed to abate,
remedy, or correct a condition that presents or may present an imminent or
substantial danger to the health or welfare of persons downstream, or
substantial danger to the environment. During such a condition the city may
take immediate action, and then notify the owner or owner representative as
soon as possible.
      (4)   Illicit discharge.
         (a)   All illicit discharge including illicit connections to the
municipal system is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall
be immediately ceased.
         (b)   City to take corrective action. The city may cause corrective
action as deemed necessary to correct illicit discharge and correct any damage
caused by the illicit discharge, and it shall keep a record of the cost of such
correction action and the private property from which the illicit discharge
originated.
         (c)   Cost of corrective action to be assessed. The City Manager
shall, upon direction of the Council, and on receipt of the information
provided for in the preceding division, extend the cost of such corrective
action as a special assessment against the lots or parcel of ground where the
illicit discharge originated, and such special assessments shall at the time of
certifying taxes to the County Auditor be certified for collection as other
special assessments are certified and collected.
         (d)   Administrative fee. Failure of the owner or tenant of the
private property from which the illicit discharge originated in the allotted
time may result in the issuance of an administrative fee. Regardless of who
occupies the property, the owner of the private property is ultimately
responsible for illicit discharge originating from the property and is
responsible for payment of administrative fees. The administrative fee will be
set by resolution of the City Council. It is a misdemeanor for the owner to
fail to pay the administrative fee within 30 days of receiving written notice
of the fee being assessed. The administrative fee and misdemeanor violation for
failing to pay the fee are not exclusive remedies for illicit discharge.
         (e)   Continuing violations. Each day illicit discharge occurs is a
continuing violation of this section and shall constitute a separate offense.
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this section.
         (f)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this section are
not exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal,
state or local law and it is within the discretion of the city to seek
cumulative remedies. The city may recover all attorney’s fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement of this section, including sampling
and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 1083, passed 3-23-15; Am. Ord. 1146, passed 9-23-19; Am. Ord. 1189,
passed 11-14-22)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with or violating §
54.10 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine or
imprisonment or both. Each day that a separate violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1000, passed 8-13-07)
CHAPTER 55: STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM
Section
   
55.01   Findings and purposes
   
55.02   Establishment of a Street Lighting Fund
   
55.03   Definitions
   
55.04   Determination of special service charge base rate
   
55.05   Payment of fee
   
55.06   Certification of past due fees on taxes
§ 55.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the efficient, economic and
safe operation of the street lighting system for the protection of the health,
safety and general welfare of the public within the city. In order to
appropriately distribute the costs of the establishment, operation,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance, enlargement and improvement of
the system, it is hereby determined by the City Council that every developed
property benefits from the safety and convenience of street lights and,
therefore, there shall be a special service charge imposed upon every special
service charge unit as it is defined in §
55.03 below located within the city.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10)
§ 55.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STREET LIGHTING FUND.
   There is hereby created a Street Lighting Fund into which all special
service charges and other monies collected for the establishment, operation,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance, enlargement and improvement of
the street lighting system will be deposited. The fund shall at all times be
under the management and control of the City Council.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10)
§ 55.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY USE CATEGORY. Each property shall be identified as belonging to one
of the following use categories: residential; multi-family residential,
commercial; industrial; institutional; or exempt. Residential shall include
multi-family structures with three or fewer dwelling units. Multi-family
residential shall include town homes, apartments, and condominiums with four or
more dwelling units. Exempt uses shall include parks, open space, cemeteries,
road right-of-ways, lake, streams, wetlands, and vacant lands.
   REQUIRED STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM REVENUE. The estimated annual expenditures
by the city for the establishment, operation, construction, repair,
replacement, maintenance, enlargement and improvement of the street lighting
system, less such revenue as the Council may obtain and/or apply from any other
source(s).
   SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE FACTORS (“FACTOR”). SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE FACTORS
("FACTOR") for each property use category shall be as follows:
 
Property Use Category                              Service Charge Factor
Residential (3 dwelling units or less)             1.00
Multi-family (4 dwelling units or more) (including 3.00
apartments and condominiums)
Commercial                                         3.00
Industrial                                         3.00
Institutional                                      3.00
Exempt                                             0.00
 
   SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE UNIT (“UNIT”).
      (1)   Each single family residence;
      (2)   Each multi-family residence, apartment, or condominium structure;
      (3)   Each motel or hotel;
      (4)   Each commercial or industrial office, store, plant, warehouse or
institution;
      (5)   Each school building or campus; and
      (6)   Each church building.
   SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE USE RATE (“USE RATE”). SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE USE
RATE (“USE RATE”) for each property use category shall be the product of the
special service charge base rate and the factor corresponding to the use
category of the property.
   STREET LIGHTING SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE (“CHARGE”). The annual charge to be
billed to each developed property. The charge for each property shall be the
product of the unit or units and the use rate corresponding to the use of the
property.
   STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM. Network of lighting equipment designed and used for
illumination of streets, alleys and other public ways used by vehicles or
pedestrians for travel.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10; Am. Ord. 1109, passed 12-11-17)
§ 55.04 DETERMINATION OF SPECIAL SERVICE CHARGE BASE RATE.
   (A)   The special service charge base rate shall be calculated by dividing
the required street lighting system revenue into the sum of all units
multiplied by their corresponding factor.
   (B)   The required street lighting system revenue and resulting special
service charge base rate shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this
chapter. Subsequent changes in the required street lighting system revenue and
resulting special service charge base rate shall be adopted by Council
resolution.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10)
§ 55.05 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   One-twelfth of the charge shall be billed each month along with other
municipal utility bills. The terms and conditions for payment of charges shall
be as established by the Water and Light Commission with concurrence by the
City Council.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10)
§ 55.06 CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES.
   If any charges as billed monthly have not been paid for three consecutive
months, then a penalty as set forth in §
55.05 shall be added to the amount due. Any such past due fees may then be
certified to the County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes on the
following year pursuant to M.S. 429.101, Subd. 1(a). In addition, the city
shall also have the right to bring a civil action or to take other legal
remedies to collect unpaid fees.
(Ord. 1034, passed 8-9-10)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Statutes adopted by reference
   
70.02   Application of provisions
   
70.03   Scope
   
70.04   Traffic-control devices
   
70.05   Temporary restrictions or directions
   
70.06   Restricted turns
   
70.07   Limiting time of railway street crossing obstruction
   
70.08   Possession of marijuana in a motor vehicle
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this title, the regulatory and
procedural provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, commonly referred to as the Highway
Traffic Regulation Act, as amended through Laws of 1975, is hereby incorporated
herein and adopted by reference including the penalty provisions thereof.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this title, M.S. §§ 171.01, 171.02,
171.03, 171.08, 171.22, 171.23 and 171.24, as amended through Laws of 1975, are
hereby incorporated herein and adopted by reference, including the penalty
provisions thereof.
('69 Code, § 5.29)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles
upon the streets shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles including, but not
limited to, those owned or operated by the United States, this state or any
county, city, town, district or any other subdivision of the state, subject to
such specific exemptions as set forth herein.
   (B)   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal
drawing a vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Provisions specifically referring to
bicycles shall be in addition to other provisions of this title applying to
vehicles.
('69 Code, § 5.01)
§ 70.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this title relate exclusively to the streets, alleys, and
private roads in the city, and the operation and parking of vehicles refer
exclusively to the operation and parking of vehicles upon such streets, alleys
and private roads.
('69 Code, § 5.02, Subd. 1)
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No device, sign or signal shall be erected or maintained for traffic or
parking control unless the Council shall first have approved and directed the
same, except as otherwise provided in this section; provided, that when traffic
and parking control is marked or sign-posted, such marking or sign-posting
shall attest to Council action thereon.
('69 Code, § 5.03, Subd. 1)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.05 TEMPORARY RESTRICTIONS OR DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   When clearly marked, barricaded or sign-posted, traffic and parking
may be temporarily restricted for any public or private use. The Chief of
Police is authorized to temporarily restrict traffic and parking in accordance
herewith.
   (B)   Restricted or prohibited parking and traffic lanes may be designated
by painting the same upon streets and curbs. Such work shall be done by the
Street Department or by a contractor under the direct supervision of the Chief
of Police, or his or her designee, and in compliance with provisions of this
title.
   (C)   It is unlawful to use traffic or parking lanes contrary to sign-
posting or marking authorized and described in this section.
   (D)   Experimental restrictions and directions may be placed on traffic and
parking by the Chief of Police when a hazardous condition is observed or
arises. It is unlawful to violate any restriction or direction when the same
has been duly marked, barricaded or sign-posted.
('69 Code, § 5.03, Subd. 2) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.06 RESTRICTED TURNS.
   The Chief of Police may, when authorized by the Council, whenever necessary
to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any
intersection within the congested district as one where the turning of a
vehicle to the left or to the right, or both, or making U-turns, is restricted
or prohibited.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 14)
§ 70.07 LIMITING TIME OF RAILWAY STREET CROSSING OBSTRUCTION.
   No person operating or in charge of a railroad train, car, engine, or other
railroad equipment, or combination of such equipment, shall permit the same to
be parked or left standing upon any street crossing so as to close such
crossing to vehicular traffic for a longer period than ten minutes.
('69 Code, § 5.17)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.08 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   A person is guilty of a misdemeanor if the person is the owner of a private
motor vehicle, or is the driver of the motor vehicle if the owner is not
present, and possesses on the person, or knowingly keeps or allows to be kept
within the area of the vehicle normally occupied by the driver or passengers,
more than 1.4 grams of marijuana. This area of the vehicle does not include the
trunk of the motor vehicle if the vehicle is equipped with a trunk, or another
area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers if the
vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. A utility or glove compartment is deemed
to be within the area occupied by the driver and passengers.
(Ord. 950, passed 9-8-03)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division, or provision of this title when
he performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act
when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, or provision specifically makes
violation a misdemeanor, he shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where a
violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, he shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where he stands convicted of violation of any provision of this
title, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or parking of an
unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding 12-month period for the
third or subsequent time, he shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, as
provided in § 10.99.
   (B)   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, he shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor, as provided in § 10.99.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of § 10.99.
('69 Code, § 5.99) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Traffic Rules
   
71.01   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
71.02   Driving through property to avoid traffic signal
Bicycles
   
71.15   Application of traffic laws
   
71.16   Manner of riding bicycles
   
71.17   Interference with pedestrians prohibited
   
71.18   Speed limit
   
71.19   Time restriction for minors
   
71.20   Parking
Snowmobiles
   
71.35   Definitions
   
71.36   Operation on streets and highways
   
71.37   Speed limit
   
71.38   Stopping; right-of-way
   
71.39   Operation during emergency
   
71.40   Operation generally
   
71.41   Equipment
   
71.42   Traffic laws and rules
   
71.43   Leaving snowmobile unattended
   
71.44   Chasing animals forbidden
Motorized Golf Carts
   
71.50   Authorization
   
71.51   Definitions
   
71.52   Permit required
   
71.53   Permit application
   
71.54   Grant or denial of permits
   
71.55   Operation regulations
   
71.56   Revocation or suspension of permits
   
71.57   Appeal
   
71.58   Permit term
 
   
71.98   Enforcement
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL TRAFFIC RULES
§ 71.01 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to:
   (A)   Start or accelerate any motor vehicle with unnecessary exhibition of
speed within the city limits. Prima facie evidence of such unnecessary
exhibition of speed shall be unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by the tires or the throwing of sand or travel by the tires of said
vehicle or both; or
   (B)   Operating a motor vehicle within the city limits in such manner so as
to simulate a race or temporary race; to cause such a vehicle to unnecessarily
slide, skid, sway or turn abruptly; to cause or create unnecessary engine noise
with said vehicle; or to impede traffic.
('69 Code, § 5.31) (Ord. 605, eff. 2-12-79)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.02 DRIVING THROUGH PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic-control
device, by driving upon or through any private property.
('69 Code, § 5.32) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
Penalty, see § 71.99
BICYCLES
§ 71.15 APPLICATION OF TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Persons riding or propelling any bicycle, shall observe and obey all traffic
signs and stop at all stop signs; and shall obey all traffic rules and
regulations applicable to bicycles; and shall turn only at intersections,
signaling for all turns; and shall ride at the right hand side of the street or
highway, pass to the left when passing vehicles or bicycles that are slower
moving; and shall pass to the right when meeting.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 4) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.16 MANNER OF RIDING BICYCLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride or propel a bicycle upon any public
street, highway, boulevard, walk, or other public place, except in a careful
and prudent manner unless such person shall be capable of efficient control and
operation of such bicycle nor shall any person propel or operate a bicycle in
such places, carrying or permitting to be carried any other person upon such
bicycle, unless such other person be upon or astride a regular and permanent
seat attached to such bicycle.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 2) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.17 INTERFERENCE WITH PEDESTRIANS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to ride or propel any bicycle upon any public
street, highway, boulevard, walk, or other public place, in such a manner as to
interfere with any pedestrian thereon.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 1) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.18 SPEED LIMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a greater speed than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 3) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.19 TIME RESTRICTION FOR MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 12 years to ride or propel a
bicycle upon any street, highway, boulevard, walk, or other public place in the
city at night after the hour of 9:00 p.m.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 6) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.20 PARKING.
   It is unlawful to park a bicycle on any street or highway in the city except
in an upright position.
('69 Code, § 5.10, Subd. 8) (Ord. 655, eff. 5-24-82)
Penalty, see § 71.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder having the property in or title to
snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire strip of land traversed by a highway or street in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, including the shoulder.
   SAFETY or DEADMAN THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is removed from
the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the
driving track.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   STREET OR HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of
right of the purposes of vehicular traffic.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 1) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
§ 71.36 OPERATION ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution prohibit or restrict the operation
of snowmobiles within the right-of-way of the public roads or streets or other
city property within the city when in the opinion of the City Council the
public safety and welfare so requires.
   (B)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a prohibited street or
highway except an interstate highway or freeway provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick crossing.
      (2)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway.
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard.
      (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of such street or highway with another public street or
highway.
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 2) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.37 SPEED LIMIT.
   No snowmobile shall be operated on streets or highways at a speed exceeding
20 miles per hour.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 3) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77; Am. Ord. 733, passed 2-13-
89)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.38 STOPPING; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without making a
complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any vehicles
or pedestrians which constitute an immediate hazard.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 4) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.39 OPERATION DURING EMERGENCY.
   Notwithstanding any prohibition in this title, a snowmobile may be operated
on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of the time when and
at locations where snow upon the roadway render travel by automobile
impractical.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 5) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.40 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful
for any person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the city:
   (A)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel.
   (B)   On private property of another without lawful authority or consent of
the owner or occupancy.
   (C)   At any place, while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit forming drugs.
   (D)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the
surrounding circumstances.
   (E)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger the person or property of another or to cause injury or damage
thereto.
   (F)   So as to tow any person or thing on public street or highway except
through use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile.
   (G)   Within 100 feet of any sliding area. Such sliding areas shall be
designated by resolution of the City Council.
   (H)   In a manner as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   (I)   No snowmobile shall be operated in any tree nursery or any shrub or
tree planting in any manner which damages or destroys growing stock, or
landscaping on public property.
   (J)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any publicly owned lands
including but not limited to schools, park property, playgrounds and recreation
areas, except areas previously listed or authorized for such use by the proper
public authority in which case such use shall be unlawful and snowmobiles may
be driven in and out of such areas owned by the city which shall be designated
by the City Council.
   (K)   Every person operating a snowmobile shall stop said snowmobile
immediately upon a signal to do so from any police officer.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 6) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.41 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and in constant
operation, and which reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
for operation. Mufflers shall comply with Regulation CONS.55 which is hereby
adopted by reference as it existed on September 1, 1970. No person shall use a
muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on a snowmobile motor,
and the exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling
sound.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   A safety or so-called deadman throttle in operating condition, so that
when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, the motor is
disengaged from the driving track.
   (D)   At least one clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. Such
head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least one
red tail lamp having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit
a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the
hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The equipment to be in
operating condition when the vehicle is operated between the hours of one- half
hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or at times or reduced
visibility.
   (E)   Reflective material at least ten square inches on each side so as to
reflect or beam light at a ninety-degree angle.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 7) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.42 TRAFFIC LAWS AND RULES.
   All the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, §§ 84.81 through 84.90 inclusive, §
100.26 and § 100.29 regulating traffic and the operation of motor vehicles upon
streets or highways and regulating snowmobiles and the required equipment shall
apply to the operation of snowmobiles in the city.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 8) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
§ 71.43 LEAVING SNOWMOBILE UNATTENDED.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile in a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take the same with him.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 10) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.44 CHASING ANIMALS FORBIDDEN.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal,
wild or domestic, with a snowmobile.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 11) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77)
Penalty, see § 71.99
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
§ 71.50 AUTHORIZATION.
   Pursuant to its authority under M.S. § 169.045, motorized golf carts may be
operated within the city only on designated streets under its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED OPERATOR. A person authorized to operate a motorized golf cart.
   DESIGNATED STREETS. Any street under the jurisdiction of the City of
Worthington.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A self-propelled vehicle of the type and style designed
for and commonly used by patrons of golf courses.
   PERMIT. A permit issued by the city under this subchapter, allowing for
operation of a motorized golf cart on streets under the jurisdiction of the
City of Worthington.
   PERSON. A natural person.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.52 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Motorized golf carts shall not be operated on streets in the city except by
an authorized operator pursuant to a valid permit.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application forms for permits shall be obtained from the Worthington
Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   Conditions for permit issuance shall be as follows:
      (1)   Applicant must possess a valid driver's license.
      (2)   If the applicant is physically disabled, the applicant must submit
a certificate signed by a licensed physician that the applicant is able to
operate a motorized golf cart on the designated streets.
      (3)   Applicant must have proof of insurance as required by M.S. §
65B.48.
      (4)   Permit decals obtained from the City of Worthington shall be
affixed to the front panel of the driver's side of the golf cart to ensure
visibility for law enforcement.
      (5)   Such additional and further information as the city may deem
necessary or appropriate to process the application.
   (C)   A fee shall accompany the application for a permit to operate a
motorized golf cart. Such fee shall be established by City Council.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.54 GRANT OR DENIAL OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Worthington Director of Public Safety may grant a permit to
applicants satisfactorily providing all information required by this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Worthington Director of Public Safety may deny an application, in
whole or in part, for public safety reasons, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The application or documentation submitted in support of the
application is incomplete or contains false, fraudulent or deceptive
statements;
      (2)   An authorized operator for the applicant does not have a valid
Minnesota driver's license;
      (3)   An authorized operator for the applicant cannot safely operate a
motorized golf cart on streets in the city;
      (4)   Information or documentation required by any other applicable law
has not been filed with the Worthington Director of Public Safety;
      (5)   The applicant does not qualify for a permit.
   (C)   The Worthington Director of Public Safety may issue a permit subject
to special conditions, if the Worthington Director of Public Safety determines
that the applicant does not otherwise qualify for a permit, or that such
conditions are necessary to ensure public safety.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   Motorized golf carts operated pursuant to permit on designated streets must
also comply with the following:
   (A)   The operator possesses a valid driver's license.
   (B)   The operation is on a designated roadway, except when crossing any
nondesignated street or highway intersecting a designated roadway.
   (C)   The operation is during daylight hours between sunrise and sunset,
unless equipped with original equipment headlights, taillights, and rear-facing
brake lights. They shall not be operated in inclement weather, except during
emergency conditions, or, when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or
other conditions, or at any time there is insufficient visibility to clearly
see persons and
vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   The motorized golf cart displays a slow-moving vehicle emblem as
described by M.S. § 169.70.
   (E)   The motorized golf cart is equipped with rear view mirrors as required
by M.S. § 169.70.
   (F)   The operator provides a signal of intention when turning or stopping
the motorized golf cart as defined in M.S. § 169.19. The signals herein
required shall be given either by the means of signal lamp or signal device of
a type approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (G)   The operator has insurance coverage required by state statute
(presently M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5 where the term “motorcycle” shall be
understood to represent “motorized golf cart”).
   (H)   The operator observes all traffic laws, except such as cannot be
reasonably applied to motorized golf carts.
   (I)   The number of persons occupying a motorized golf cart in motion does
not exceed the manufacturer’s specifications.
   (J)   The operator has displayed a permit obtained from the City of
Worthington.
   (K)   Motorized golf carts shall not be operated on public sidewalks,
trails, or any other infrastructure designed and intended for pedestrians or
cyclists.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.56 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits may be revoked or temporarily suspended by the Director of
Public Safety based upon complaints received, violations of statute or
ordinance, or if the Director finds satisfactory evidence that an authorized
operator can no longer safely operate a motorized golf cart on designated
streets, or no longer holds a Minnesota driver’s license.
   (B)   The Worthington Director of Public Safety shall give notice that a
permit has been revoked or temporarily suspended, either directly to the permit
holder, or by first class mail to the permit holder at the address stated in
the permit application.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.57 APPEAL.
   Any authorized operator may appeal a denial, revocation, modification or
suspension to the City Council, by a written notice of appeal submitted to the
City Administrator within 14 days of the effective date of the revocation,
modification or suspension. Any person who is aggrieved by the actions of the
City Council for the denial, revocation, modification, or suspension of a
permit shall have the right to appeal such action to the district court in the
county. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with such court, within 14 days of
the date of the action complained of, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.58 PERMIT TERM. 
   Permits shall be valid for up to three years from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 918, passed 3-12-01; Am. Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the City of Worthington to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1204, passed 6-10-24)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of §§
71.35 through 71.45 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as defined by state law.
   (C)   Violations of §§
71.50 through 71.59:
      (1)   Are petty misdemeanors, except for those committed under
circumstances that endanger, or that are likely to endanger, persons or
property.
      (2)   Committed under circumstances that endanger, or that are likely to
endanger, persons or property are misdemeanors.
      (3)   Committed within 12 months of a conviction for a prior violation
are misdemeanors.
('69 Code, § 5.40, Subd. 12) (Ord. 552, eff. 1-10-77; Am. Ord. 918, passed 3-
12-01)y
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Presumption as to vehicle parked in violation
   
72.02   Parking prohibited in certain places
   
72.03   Persons moving vehicle into prohibited area
   
72.04   Compliance with direction of police officer
   
72.05   Manner of parking on streets
   
72.06   Parking prohibited over certain length of time
   
72.07   Parking vehicles to facilitate snow removal
   
72.08   Limited parking zones
   
72.09   Loading zones
   
72.10   Limitations and restrictions in municipal parking lots
   
72.11   Leased parking stalls
   
72.12   Removal of parking enforcement markings
   
72.13   Authority of police officer as to illegally parked vehicle
   
72.14   Parking privileges for the handicapped
   
72.15   Certain vehicles restricted
   
72.16   Parking of occupied trailer coaches
   
72.17   Parking of commercial vehicles on streets and highways
§ 72.01 PRESUMPTION AS TO VEHICLE PARKED IN VIOLATION.
   As to any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter, when the driver
thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner parked the same, or
that the driver was acting as the agent of the owner.
('69 Code, § 5.15)
§ 72.02 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the specific directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
said entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (L)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (M) At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
   (N)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
   (O)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel, except as otherwise provided by ordinance; or
   (P)   So as to obstruct or block a lane of traffic in any alley or street.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 1) (Ord. 558, eff. 4-23-77) (MS 1998 Chapter 169,
Subd. 169.34)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.03 PERSONS MOVING VEHICLE INTO PROHIBITED AREA.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited
area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 2)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.04 COMPLIANCE WITH DIRECTION OF POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall stop or park a vehicle on a street when directed or ordered
to proceed by any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 4)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.05 MANNER OF PARKING ON STREETS.
   (A)   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by
curb marking and sign-posting, each vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way
roadway where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the
right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 18 inches of, the
right-hand curb and, where painted markings appear on the curb or the street
such vehicle shall be within such markings, front and rear, provided that upon
a one-way roadway all vehicles, shall be so parked, except that the left-hand
wheels of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 18 inches from the left-
hand curb.
   (B)   Where angle parking has been established and is allowed, as shown by
curb marking and sign-posting, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an
angle of approximately 45 to 60 degrees with the right front wheels touching
the curb and within any parking lines painted on the curb or street.
   (C)   Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 5, 6, 7)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING PROHIBITED OVER CERTAIN LENGTH OF TIME.
   No vehicle shall be stopped, parked or left standing upon any street for a
continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 8)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.07 PARKING VEHICLES TO FACILITATE SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in
this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection,
except where the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. A condition created on city streets because of the presence of
snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice or snow drifts thereon, which creates or is
likely to create hazardous road conditions or impede or are likely to impede
the free movement of fire, health, police, snow removal equipment, or other
emergency traffic or citizen's travel.
      EMERGENCY OFFICIAL. The Superintendent of Public Works or his or her
designee.
      STREET AND ALLEY. The entire width of any public roadway within the city
and it shall not be limited to those roadways designated as "street" but to
include avenues and all other names by which a public roadways are designated.
   (B)   Declaration of snow emergency.
      (1)   After or during the fall of snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice or
accumulation of snow drifts on any day between October 15 and April 15, the
Emergency Official is authorized to declare in writing a snow emergency which
shall be announced by radio broadcast as soon as possible on the local radio
station(s). Four hours after the declaration of a snow emergency it shall be in
effect. A declared snow emergency shall expire 48 hours later unless the snow
emergency is either renewed or terminated early by the Emergency Official. If
renewed or terminated early, it will be publicized in the same manner as the
original declaration.
      (2)   Parking during declaration of snow emergency. It shall be unlawful
for any person to allow a vehicle parked upon any public street or alley which
interferes with the removal of snow from streets or alleys in the city or
impedes the free movement of fire, health, police, snow removal equipment,
emergency or other vehicular traffic when such emergency has been declared.
   (C)   Odd-even parking. From and after November 15 through March 31 of each
year with enforcement time from 12:01 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. each day, the parking
of vehicles on the streets in the city on odd-numbered dates shall be allowed
only on sides of the streets which have buildings with addresses ending in an
odd number and on those dates parking shall be prohibited on the sides of the
streets which have buildings with addresses ending in an even number. During
the same time period, the parking of vehicles on the streets in the city on
even numbered dates shall be allowed only on the sides of the streets which
have buildings with addresses ending in an even number and on those dates
parking shall be prohibited on the sides of the streets which have buildings
with addresses ending in an odd number. If a snow emergency is declared
pursuant to division (B) above, odd-even parking shall be in effect even if
such snow emergency occurs or extends outside of the period between November 15
and March 31.
   (D)   Nothing in this section authorizes the parking of a vehicle for a
period of time or in a place when or where otherwise prohibited or restricted
by signs or otherwise including but not limited to, emergency snow route signs,
odd/even parking signs or time restricted parking signs. Except as to a
declared snow emergency, all temporary and permanent city signs which direct
that parking should occur in a different way on any street shall have priority
over the other provisions of this section.
   (E)   No vehicle shall be parked upon any street, alley or right-of-way
outside of the designated parking lanes so as to block the removal of snow from
any such street, alley or right-of-way.
   (F)   Ticketing and towing of vehicles. Pursuant to M.S. § 169.041 and §
72.13 of this code, any law enforcement official shall be authorized to ticket
and tow, or have removed and towed away by any commercial towing service, any
vehicle which is parked in violation of this section or in any place where such
parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard or obstructs, or may
obstruct the movement of any emergency or snow removal equipment, or
unreasonably interferes with the removal of snow.
   (G)   Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 9) (Am. Ord. 680, passed 11-26-84; Am. Ord. 688,
passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 930, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 1041, passed 5-9-11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.08 LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   As part of the orderly administration of parking zones, the City
Council may place time limitations upon parking in certain designated areas
within the city and shall cause such zones to be marked by appropriate signs.
Such zones shall be established wherever necessary for the convenience of the
public or to minimize traffic hazards and to preserve a free flow of traffic.
During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any
limited parking zone for a longer period than is so specified. The City Council
shall set parking fines by resolution.
      (2)   Fines for parking in violation of this division (A) may be mailed
to the City Police Department or delivered to the City Police Department
located at 1530 Airport Road or to the office of the City Clerk at 303 Ninth
Street during normal business hours.
   (B)   Fines not paid within two weeks may be enforced by appropriate court
proceedings. The driver and the owner of any vehicle parked in violation of
this section are jointly and severally liable for the fines levied hereunder.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 12) (Ord. 618, eff. 3-24-80; Am. Ord. 790, passed 6-
28-93; Am. Ord. 1037, passed 10-25-10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.09 LOADING ZONES.
   The City Council may authorize the establishment of one or more loading
zones in each block or alley in the congested district.
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.10 LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS IN MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   To promote order in municipally owned parking lots, the Council may limit
the sizes and types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking,
and prescribed method of parking, provided that such limitations and
restrictions are sign-posted at entrances thereto, and thereafter violation
thereof shall constitute a violation of this section.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 15)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.11 LEASED PARKING STALLS.
   The City Clerk or his/her designee is authorized to lease certain parking
stalls within the Downtown Parking Assessment District. The City Council shall
establish the lease rates and those desiring to lease such stalls are subject
to the following conditions:
   (A)   Leases are for a period of 12 months.
   (B)   The city shall issue a lease sticker for a designated stall and the
sticker must be placed in the lower corner of the driver's side windshield.
   (C)   Lease stickers are nontransferable. In the event an owner disposes of
a vehicle and desires to continue leasing the stall, a pro-rated cost will be
assessed with a $10 processing charge.
   (D)   Parking in a non-leased numbered stall or without proper registration,
or display of the numbered lease sticker is prohibited and subject to the
removal of vehicles as established in § 72.13.
(Ord. 798, passed 1-24-94)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.12 REMOVAL OF PARKING ENFORCEMENT MARKINGS.
   No person shall willfully remove a parking enforcement mark from a vehicle
for the purpose of evading enforcement within the limited parking zone as
defined in § 72.08. Any person who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 791, passed 6-28-93)
§ 72.13 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICER AS TO ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or a
municipally owned parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, except
those provisions relating to parking meters, such officer is hereby authorized
to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same
to a position in compliance herewith. When any police officer finds a vehicle
unattended upon any street or in a municipally owned parking lot in violation
of any parking regulation, except those provisions relating to parking meters,
such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle
and remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of
safety; provided, that if any charge shall be placed against said vehicle for
removal or storage thereof by anyone called upon to assist therewith the same
shall be paid prior to removal from such place of storage or safe-keeping.
('69 Code, § 5.19)
§ 72.14 PARKING PRIVILEGES FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Scope of privilege. Any physically handicapped person who displays
prominently upon the automobile parked by him or under his direction and for
his use, the distinguishing certificate or insignia specified in this section
shall be entitled to courtesy in the parking of such automobile and be relieved
of any liability with respect to parking except as provided in § 72.02.
   (B)   Definition of physically handicapped. Physically handicapped as
employed herein shall include any person who has sustained an amputation or
permanent material disability of either or both arms or legs, or who has been
otherwise permanently disabled in any manner rendering it difficult and
burdensome for him to walk.
   (C)   Identifying certificate. The identifying certificate or insignia
provided for herein shall be such as is issued by the Motor Vehicle Division in
the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Minnesota, in accordance
with rules and regulations of the Secretary of State, and upon application
certified to by a qualified physician.
   (D)   Revocation. If the police of the city shall find that such
certification or insignia is being used improperly, they shall report the same
to their superior, who shall report such improper use to the Chief of Police,
and the Chief of Police shall, in turn, report such improper use to the Motor
Vehicle Division in the Department of Public Safety of the State of Minnesota,
and the Commissioner of Public Safety may, in his discretion, remove the
privilege.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person who is not physically handicapped and who
exercises the privilege granted a physically handicapped person under division
(A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Application. This section shall not apply to the State of Minnesota or
to any of its departments or agencies.
('69 Code, § 5.21) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
§ 72.15 CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall park a semi-trailer in a residential area, so zoned by
ordinance, except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same. ('69 Code,
§ 5.16, Subd. 10)
   (B)   (1)   No tractors, agricultural implements, trucks other than a pickup
truck, automobile trailer or automobile to which a trailer is attached shall be
allowed to remain parked on any street at any one place for more than 60
minutes.
      (2)   This division shall not prohibit the parking of such vehicles as
set out herein for the purpose of having access to any property abutting
thereon, for the purpose of having access to any property abutting thereon, for
the purpose of loading or unloading, which such access cannot conveniently be
secured from an alley.
      (3)   The Council may by appropriate action taken at any regular or
special meeting designate certain streets or parts thereof on which trucks may
be parked, and establish the times and conditions under which said trucks may
be so parked.
('69 Code, § 5.16, Subd. 11) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.16 PARKING OF OCCUPIED TRAILER COACHES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OCCUPIED TRAILER COACH. Any motorized or nonmotorized portable structure,
or motor vehicles such as a van, so constructed and designed as to permit
occupancy thereof for dwelling or sleeping purposes.
      TRAILER COACH SPACE. A unit of adequately drained ground of definite
size, clearly indicated by corner markers for the placing of a trailer coach or
a trailer coach and tow car in a trailer park.
      TRAILER PARK. An approved site, lot, field or tract of ground upon which
two or more trailer coaches are placed; and shall include any building,
structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the
equipment of such park.
   (B)   Illegal parking of occupied trailer coaches. It is unlawful for any
person to park any occupied trailer coach, as follows:
      (1)   On any street or other public place for a period of time in excess
of eight hours, and then only between the hours of sunrise and sunset.
      (2)   For more than 72 hours on the premises of any occupied dwelling or
business building lot, not more than 24 hours on any lot which is not a part of
the premises of any occupied dwelling or business building; except in a trailer
coach park.
   (C)   Allowing illegal parking of trailer. It is unlawful for any owner or
occupant of any premises to allow such premises to be used in violation of the
terms of this section.
('69 Code, § 6.74)
§ 72.17 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No tractors, agricultural implements, trucks other than a pickup
truck, automobile trailer or automobile to which a trailer is attached shall be
allowed to remain parked on any street at any one place for more than 60
minutes.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the parking of such vehicles as set
out in division (A) of this section for the purpose of having access to any
property abutting thereon,or for the purpose of loading or unloading, when such
access cannot conveniently be secured from an alley.
   (C)   The City Council may, by appropriate action taken at any regular or
special meeting, designate certain streets or parts thereof on which trucks may
be parked and establish the times and conditions under which said trucks may be
so parked.
(Ord. 430, passed 10-23-68)
Penalty, see § 70.99
CHAPTER 73: ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Purpose and intent
   
73.02   Definitions
   
73.03   State laws incorporated
   
73.04   Permits and applications for permits
   
73.05   Operating rules and prohibitions
   
73.06   Duty of police to enforce
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for the use
of special and recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in
the city. This chapter is not intended to allow what the Minnesota Statutes
prohibit or to prohibit what the Minnesota Statutes expressly allow. It is
intended to ensure the public safety and prevent a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE, hereinafter ATV, is a motorized
vehicle with not less than four but not more than six low pressure or non-
pneumatic tires; a total dry weight of less than 2,000 pounds; and a total
width from inside of tire rim to outside of tire rim that is 65 inches or less.
Dry weight is normally the weight of the vehicle without fluids. ATV includes
both CLASS 1 ATVS and CLASS 2 ATVS. ATV does not include a golf cart, mini-
truck, dune buggy, or go-cart nor does it include a vehicle designed and used
specifically for lawn maintenance, agriculture, logging, or mining purposes.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street or highway between the roadway and
private property.
   CLASS 1 ATV. An ATV that has a total width from inside of tire rim to
outside of tire rim that is 50 inches or less and which has a total dry weight
of less than 900 pounds.
   CLASS 2 ATV. An ATV that has a total width from inside of tire rim to
outside of tire rim that is greater than 50 inches but not more than 65 inches
and a dry weight between 900 pounds and 2,000 pounds.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the all-terrain
vehicle.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, and control the operation of an all-terrain
vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
all-terrain vehicle.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property that may be used by the public subject to
reasonable regulation by a governmental body. Such property includes, but is
not limited to, city parks, city parking lots and public school parking lots
and grounds.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel but not including the boulevard. For purposes of this
chapter, roadways not dedicated for public, use and not maintained by the city
are not included within this definition.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.03 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED.
   All provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 and M.S. §§ 84.922 through 84.929, and all
provisions of the City Code regulating vehicular traffic, shall apply to the
operation of all ATVs upon the streets of the City of Worthington, with the
exception of those relating to equipment or those which, by their nature, have
no application.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.04 PERMITS AND APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   License and permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive or operate an ATV on any public roadway within the city limits unless
such person has a valid state driver's license. It shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or operate an ATV on any public roadway within the city limits
unless such person has obtained a permit as required herein.
   (B)   Director of Public Safety to issue permit. Permits shall be issued by
the Director of Public Safety for a period of one year; two years; or three
years ending on December 31 of the given year. Any permit may be renewed at any
time. A permit shall be issued to persons 16 years of age or older upon filing
of the appropriate application with the Director of Public Safety, together
with evidence of insurance complying with M.S. § 65B.48. A fee, which shall be
established from time to time by the City Council, shall accompany the
application for a permit to operate an ATV upon such public roadways as may,
from time to time, be designated by the City Council.
   (C)   Application for permit. Every application for a permit shall be made
on a form supplied by the city and shall contain all of the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant who shall have ownership
interest of the ATV.
      (2)   Model name, make, and year and number of the ATV.
      (3)   Names and addresses of all individuals who are eligible to operate
the vehicle and the driver's license numbers, if any, of such individuals.
      (4)   The applicant's choice of time period for the permit (one year, two
years or three years).
      (5)   Other information as the city may require.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.05 OPERATING RULES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibitions. ATVs may not operate:
      (1)   On roadways at a speed in excess of the posted limited for
motorized vehicles;
      (2)   Other than in single file on a roadway;
      (3)   Carelessly or recklessly;
      (4)   In a manner that damages public road rights-of-way;
      (5)   In a manner that violates or constitutes a public nuisance under
state law of the City Code, including noise violations;
      (6)   On private land except with the permission of the owner or
occupant;
      (7)   On publicly owned land, including school, exclusive city streets,
park property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except where
permitted by this chapter;
      (8)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise
that disturbs, annoys, or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (9)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel or any bike trail except for those located upon a roadway;
      (10)   At a place while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
narcotics or habit-forming drugs;
      (11)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to cause injury or
damage thereto;
      (12)   On any public street, highway, or right-of-way unless registered,
if so required, pursuant to Minnesota law;
      (13)   So as to intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any animal,
wild or domestic; or
      (14)   By halting an ATV carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the
rights or the safety of others or in a manner so as to endanger or be likely to
endanger any person or property.
   (B)   Required equipment for all ATVs. ATVs may not operate:
      (1)   Without at least one headlight turned on at all times while
operating;
      (2)   Without at least one tail light; or
      (3)   At a speed exceeding ten miles per hour on the frozen surface of
public waters within 100 feet of a person not on an all-terrain vehicle or
within 100 feet of a fishing shelter.
   (C)   Additional required equipment for Class 2 ATV. A Class 2 ATV may not
operate without:
      (1)   A rollover protection bar;
      (2)   Seatbelts for driver and all occupants pursuant to the design
occupant load;
      (3)   Front and rear turn-signal lights;
      (4)   An operational hand or foot brake; or
      (5)   An exterior mirror mounted on the driver's side of the vehicle and
either an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger's side of the vehicle or an
interior mirror to provide the driver with adequate vision from behind as
required by M.S. § 169.70.
   (D)   Helmet and seat belt requirements.
      (1)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of an ATV on public land, public waters, or on a public road
right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet approved by the Commissioner of
Public Safety.
      (2)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when
such seat belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
   (E)   Display of registration. ATVs must be registered pursuant to state law
and owners and operators must comply with the vehicle registration and display
of numbers requirements set forth in Minn. Rule 6102.001. In addition, the city
permit sticker must:
      (1)   Be flatly adhered to left of right rear quadrant;
      (2)   Be adhered to permanent plastic or metal;
      (3)   Be visible to outside inspection; and
      (4)   Not be fixed to the license plate, tied or otherwise secured except
to permanent plastic or metal.
   (F)   Operator. The operator of an ATV must be approved in the application
and shall be able to provide proof of authorization while operating the ATV as
may be required by the city upon permit approval.
   (G)   Minimum age of operator. It is unlawful for any person under the age
of 16 years of age to operate an ATV.
   (H)   Sidewalks and boulevards. It is unlawful to operate an ATV on a
sidewalk or boulevard, except that an operator may cross a sidewalk, boulevard
or other right-of-way to obtain access to a street or alley if such crossing is
made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the sidewalk,
boulevard or other right-of-way. The ATV must yield to all pedestrian or
vehicular traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard.
   (I)   Owner. It is unlawful for the owner of an ATV to permit it to be
operated contrary to this chapter.
   (J)   City use. Authorized city staff may operate city-owned ATVs without
obtaining a permit and may do so on city streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of-
way, and public property when conducting city business.
   (K)   City festivals. The City Council may temporarily suspend the
permitting requirements and allow persons age 16 or older, to operate ATVs on
designated city streets for parades and other city-wide festivals if such
persons are part of the festival. Festival onlookers, observers or spectators
will not be permitted to operate without registration under this section. Any
such suspension shall be for one or more specified dates and for a fixed number
of hours on such specified dates.
   (L)   Time and dates of operation.
      (1)   A Class 1 ATV may only be operated on designated roadways from 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m. They shall not be operated when visibility is impaired by
weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   A Class 2 ATV may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset unless it is equipped with original equipment headlights,
tail lights, and rear facing brake lights. They shall not be operated when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (M)   Passengers.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age shall operate an ATV while carrying
a passenger.
      (2)   A person 18 years of age or older may operate a Class 1 ATV
carrying one passenger and may operate a Class 2 ATV up to that number of
passengers for which the vehicle was designed.
   (N)   Designated roadways. Appendix 'A', referenced in Ordinance 1137, is a
color-coded map designating roads within the city limits upon which ATVs may
and may not be operated.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.06 DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of this municipality to enforce
the provisions of this chapter against any person found to be violating this
chapter.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The City of Worthington has the right to revoke driving and or riding
privileges of any individual on an ATV within the city limits by direction of
the Director of Public Safety based upon complaints received and or violations
of statute or ordinance. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction may be punished to the
maximum extent allowed by law.
   (B)   Any person who is aggrieved by the actions of the City Council for the
denial of the permit or in a revocation of a permit shall have the right to
appeal such action to the district court in the county. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with such court, within 14 days of the date of the action
complained of, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the
appeal.
(Ord. 1137, passed 5-28-19)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES
      
96.   WEEDS
      
97.   ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
98.   MINIMUM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR ALL STRUCTURES AND PREMISES
      
99.   OUTSIDE PARKING OF VEHICLES; DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE
      
100.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
101.   PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Control Officer
   
90.03   Domesticated animals
   
90.04   Dangerous animal regulation
   
90.05   Animals at large
   
90.06   Loud noises, odors prohibited
   
90.07   Animals destroying property of another
   
90.08   Dangerous dog
   
90.09   License
   
90.10   Permits - commercial and breeder
   
90.11   Commercial animal establishments; other domestic animal regulations
   
90.12   Special requirements for dogs
   
90.13   Animal treatment
   
90.14   Animal enclosures
   
90.15   Criminal penalties
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. See PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   ANIMAL. Every living creature except members of the human race.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any employee of the City of Worthington who holds
that employment and job classification within the City of Worthington.
   ANIMAL ENCLOSURE. Any building or part thereof, structure or area including
pens, dog houses, kennels and outside runs that are principally used or
designed for use as a place for keeping animals. For the purposes of this
chapter, an electronic containment system shall not be considered an animal
enclosure.
   AT LARGE. An animal, on or off the premises of the owner, and not under the
control of the owner or some other person of suitable age and discretion by
command or by leash, chain, cable, fence, kennel or other suitable enclosure.
An animal enclosed within a residence, dwelling, business or other structure so
that it cannot leave on its own volition shall not be considered at large.
   BITE. To be seized by an animal with the teeth or jaws so that a person,
animal or object has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced.
   BREEDER.
      (1)   A professional breeder is any person or entity breeding animals for
profit or who produces more than two litters, regardless of species, in any 12-
month period.
      (2)   A nonprofessional breeder is any person breeding animals as a hobby
and produces two litters or less, regardless of species, in any 12-month
period.
   BY COMMAND. As applied to a dog the term means the dog must be kept within
six feet of the person in charge of or in control of the dog unless the dog is
being exercised, trained or engaged in play. When a dog is being exercised,
trained or engaging in play on public property or property other than the
owners or person in charge or control of the dog, the dog must be visible to
the owner or person in control and be within 30 feet of the owner or person
responsible for control of the dog. The dog must always return to the owner on
no more than two voice commands.
   CAT.   Any member of the animal species Felis catus.
   CITY BEACH AREA. Area on the shoreline of the lake which the city has
improved for swimming and other beach activities by providing some of the items
hereafter listed: A bath house or other facility for changing clothes,
improving the beach with sand, installing buoys and other devices to mark the
swimming area, and providing life guard service, whether full or part-time.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. A place where three animals, regardless of species, over
six months of age are kept and where the business of selling, breeding,
showing, treating or grooming dogs or other animals is conducted. An animal
which is on premises for no more than 12 hours shall not be considered a kept
animal.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any wild animal, reptile or fowl which is not naturally
tame or gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its
size, nature or other characteristics could constitute a danger to humans,
animals, or property if it is not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in
secure quarters. The term also means and includes any mammal, reptile or fowl
which, because of its size or vicious propensity or other characteristic, would
constitute a danger to human life or property if it is not kept or maintained
in a safe manner or in secure quarters.
   DOG.  Any member of the species Canis familiaris.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL.  Any animal which by its nature, is capable of being
bred or trained, or a combination of both, to cohabit with humans.
   ELECTRONIC PET CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS.  A system which emits or causes to be
emitted an electronic signal for the purpose of confining animals within a
predetermined area.
   EUTHANIZE.  To cause death by any method which produces rapid loss of
consciousness resulting in as painless a death as possible.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. See WILD or EXOTIC ANIMAL.
   FARM ANIMAL. Any animal which would normally be considered a farm animal or
barnyard animal. By way of example and not limitation, included in the terms
FARM ANIMAL and barnyard animal are cattle, horses, sheep, goats, fowl
(including ducks, chickens, geese, ostriches, guinea hens, pheasants, quail,
partridge, turkeys), swine, llamas, and alpacas.
   FARM SUPPLY MERCHANDISER.  A year-round business with a physical building
presence located in the city conducting business in farm supplies and
operational necessities.
   IMPOUND.  To seize and hold in custody.
   OWNER.  Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or maintaining an animal
within the city or permitting such animal to be at large within the city. An
animal shall be deemed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for three days or
more.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
estate, or other legal entity.
   PICKET/TIE-OUT.  To restrain an animal by means of a chain, leash, or other
restraint attached to a fixed object.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE and ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. The residence if a residence
is located on the property. If there is no residence, the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE
shall be the largest building on the property. If more than one building on a
property is equal in size to the largest building, then any building may be the
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. Which structure is the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE shall be
determined at the sole discretion of the representative of the city enforcing
this chapter. All structures other than the principal structure are ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES.
   SERVICE DOG. A dog which is properly identified as a dog which has been
trained to aid persons who are totally or partially blind or deaf, or have
physical or sensory disabilities, or a dog which is used by a law enforcement
agency.
   VACCINATION.  Inoculation against rabies by any method approved by the State
Health Department or other appropriate state agency.
   WILD or EXOTIC ANIMAL.  Any mammal, amphibian, reptile or bird which is of a
species not usually domesticated, or of a species which, due to size, wild
nature, or other characteristic, is or can be dangerous to humans. The term
includes animals and birds, the keeping of which is licensed by the state or
federal government, such as wolves, raptors, and pheasants. By way of example
and not limitation, the term includes: poisonous snakes, reptiles, eagles,
jaguars, cougars, weasels, badgers, monkeys, chimpanzees, deer and bison. The
term includes crossbreeds such as the cross between dogs and coyotes and dogs
and wolves. Exceptions to definition of WILD or EXOTIC ANIMAL are:
      (1)   Non-poisonous snakes, domesticated birds, hamsters, mice, rabbits,
lizards, spiders and other small animals or reptiles capable of being kept in
cages including rats, if the animal is purchased from a bona fide pet shop;
      (2)   Medically prescribed companion animals;
      (3)   Wildlife rehabilitators may only possess animals with a Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources permit. Such animals shall be kept in a manner
which does not create or cause unsanitary conditions or unreasonable noise.
      (4)   Birds and birds of prey if kept pursuant to a valid US Fish and
Wildlife Services permit and located as permitted within zoning.
   YARD. An open space, other than a court, on a lot or parcel of real estate,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. The area extended across the full width of the
property and between the front property line and the nearest exterior wall of
the principal structures located on the subject property.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. The area extended across the full width of the subject
property and between the rear property line and nearest exterior wall of
accessory and principal structures located on the subject property.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE.   The area which extends from the front yard to the
rear yard of the subject property and lies between the side lot line and the
and the nearest wall of any accessory structure which is located on the subject
property.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05; Am. Ord. 1072, passed 8-12-13)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   The City Administrator is authorized to employ an animal control officer(s)
for enforcement of this chapter and to have the person(s) deputized with police
powers for such enforcement, including authority to issue civil and criminal
complaints for the violation of this chapter. Such officers shall be subject to
the authority and direction of the Director of Public Safety.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.03 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep an animal normally and usually housed in a cage
and maintained as a pet on any premises used for residential purposes unless
the animal is kept in a cage so constructed that it may be completely and
easily cleaned. The space which is encompassed within the cage must be
completely enclosed so the animals within the cage are protected from children
and animals on the outside. Animals which are normally and usually housed in a
cage are, by way of example and not limitation, rabbits, mice, white rats,
small birds, hampsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, non-poisonous snakes and ferrets.
Animals kept within a cage, dwelling structure or accessory structure shall be
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The health or well-being of the animal must not be endangered by
the manner of keeping or confinement.
      (2)   Keeping the animal does not constitute a nuisance and will not harm
the surrounding neighborhood or disturb the peace and quiet of the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (3)   Keeping the animal will not create or cause offensive odors or
constitute a danger to public health.
      (4)   The quarters in which such animal is kept or confined are
adequately lightened, ventilated and are so constructed that the quarters and
the animal may be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (5)   The principal structure or accessory structure in which an animal
is kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition to prevent the
breeding of flies and free of all odors.
   (B)   No person shall keep or allow to be kept, maintain or harbor within
the city any of the following:
      (1)   Any bees, bee hive or other facility for the purpose of housing
bees;
      (2)   Wild or exotic animals, except as provided in this chapter;
      (3)   Any animal or species prohibited by federal or Minnesota law;
      (4)   Any skunk;
      (5)   Any cat or members of the family Felidae such as lions, tigers,
leopards, cougars and ocelots, except cats of a type commonly accepted as
domesticated cats;
      (6)   Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, dingoes, coyotes
and jackals, any crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes and dogs and wolves,
except dogs of a type commonly accepted as domesticated dogs;
      (7)   Any raccoon or possum;
      (8)   Any animal which would normally be considered a farm animal or
barnyard animal unless the animal is kept only temporarily in a stockyard,
slaughterhouse, or farm supply merchandiser awaiting transportation or
slaughter or for exhibition purposes. By way of example and not limitation, the
terms farm animal and barn yard animal shall include cattle, horses, sheep,
goats, swine, llamas, alpacas and fowl (including pigeons, ducks, chickens,
geese, ostriches, guinea hens, pheasants, quail, partridge, and turkeys) but
not including rabbits.
      (9)   Any person keeping any prohibited animal identified above may have
it seized immediately by the Animal Control Officer.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to animals which are
temporarily brought into the city for the purpose of participating in a show or
circus, nor does it apply to any public zoo, or persons keeping animals for a
public zoo as volunteers, docents or otherwise; nor to any bona fide research
institution, or veterinary hospital provided protective devices adequate to
prevent such animal from escaping or injuring the public are provided.
   (D)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05; Am. Ord. 1072, passed 8-12-13)
§ 90.04 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REGULATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below dangerous animals shall not
be permitted within the city.
   (B)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply if:
      (1)   The animal is for exhibition to the public by a traveling circus,
carnival or other exhibit or show which holds a permit issued by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources pursuant to the M.S. §97.611 so long as such
circus, carnival, exhibit, or show does not remain within the city for any
period longer than one month in any one year.
      (2)   Keeping such animals in a licensed veterinary hospital for
treatment.
      (3)   Dangerous or poisonous reptiles may be maintained by a bona fide
educational or medical institution for the purpose of instruction or study,
provided such reptiles are securely confined and are properly cared for in a
manner satisfactory to the Director of Public Safety.
      (4)   Keeping such animals in a public zoo.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who keeps or harbors a dangerous animal within the
city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.05 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether knowingly or unknowingly,
to suffer or permit animals of any kind, including house pets, to run at large
in the streets or public places. Animals including, but not limited to, cattle,
horses, mules, sheep, goats and swine which are being herded or driven on a
public street or in a public place shall be considered to be at large unless
each such animal is confined within a vehicle or restrained by means of
bridles, halters, ropes or other means of individual restraint. This section
shall not apply to persons who have obtained prior approval from the City
Council for special events involving such activities and animals.
   (B)   Any animal which is found running at large may be captured and
impounded. The animal shall be released only on the payment of an impound fee,
plus an additional board charge for each day or fraction of a day during which
the animal is impounded. If the impounded animal is an animal for which a
license is required and such animal is unlicensed, in addition to the
impounding and boarding fee, the animal shall not be released without the
payment of the prescribed license fee, as well as an administrative penalty of
$100 or such other fee as may be established by the City Council. Each
successive time during a 12-month period an animal owner has an animal run at
large the administrative fee shall increase until the fourth time. The second
time the administrative fee shall be $200 or such other fee as may be
established by the City Council. The third time the administrative fee shall be
$500 or such other fee as may be established by the City Council. The fourth
time shall result in a declaration that the animal is a nuisance, and subject
to destruction by the Animal Control Officer. These penalties are in addition
to any fees or penalties which may be imposed by any other section of this
code.
   (C)   When a dog or cat, which has not been spayed or neutered, is taken
into custody or impounded for running at large, the owner shall be subject to
an administrative penalty of $100 or such other fee as may be established by
the City Council. If the same dog or cat is taken into custody or impounded for
running at large a second time within a 12-month period, and has not been
spayed or neutered, the owner shall be subject to an administrative penalty of
$150 or such other fee as may be established by the City Council. If the same
dog or cat is taken into custody or impounded for running at large a third time
within a 12-month period, and has not been spayed or neutered, the owner shall
be subject to an administrative penalty of $300 or such other fee as may be
established by the City Council. These charges are in addition to any other
fees or penalties which may be imposed by any other section of this code.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer may waive the additional charges for dogs
and cats found running at large which have not been altered if a determination
is made that the animal suffers from a medical condition which would make
altering dangerous to its physical well-being. Additionally, an owner who has
been charged the penalty set forth in § 90.02(C) for having an unaltered dog or
cat shall be refunded the penalty if it is the first time the dog or cat has
been running at large and within 45 days of the dog or cat being released from
the custody of the city, the owner shows the Animal Control Officer written
proof from a veterinarian that the dog or cat has been spayed or neutered.
   (E)   A designation that an animal is a nuisance and subject to destruction
shall be in writing and shall state the dates, times, places and facts of the
current and prior incidents of running at large which form the basis for the
determination. The notice shall be served by mail to the last known address of
the owner as determined from any records of the city. The owner(s) have seven
days from the date of the notice to appeal the determination by requesting a
hearing in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31 of this code.
   (F)   If no appeal is filed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31
of this code, the order issued will stand and the animal will become the
property of the city, which may proceed with destruction or offer the animal to
an animal protection organization for adoption. The decision of whether the
animal should be made available for adoption shall be in the sole discretion of
the city.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, a dog at large is deemed at large and
unrestrained with the permission and at the sufferance of its owner. If a
person is charged with a misdemeanor because the person owns a dog which is at
large, it shall be no defense that the dog escaped or is otherwise at large
without the permission or sufferance of its owner.
   (H)   No animal, except a properly identified service dog, shall be
permitted on any city beach area or allowed to swim in any city beach area. No
animal shall be permitted in a municipal bathhouse or within the confines of
the municipal outdoor swimming pool. No animal shall be allowed in city parks,
playgrounds, and picnic areas unless restrained by a leash which is:
      (1)   No more than six feet in length;
      (2)   Strong enough to hold against lunges by the animal;
      (3)   Held by an person strong enough to control the animal if it lunges.
   (I)   Feces which are deposited by an animal on property not owned by the
owner of the animal or by the person in control of the animal shall be
immediately removed by the owner of or the person in control of the animal.
   (J)   In addition to the administrative fees for which provision, a person
convicted of violation of any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.06 LOUD NOISES, ODORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to suffer or permit any place where animals are kept to
emanate noxious odors, loud noises, or disagreeable noises, to the discomfort
and annoyance of nearby property owners or occupants.
   (B)   For any person to suffer or permit accumulations of manure on any
property.
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.07 ANIMALS DESTROYING PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person, knowingly or unknowingly, to suffer or permit any
animals to destroy the property of another person.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.08 DANGEROUS DOG.
   A dangerous dog is a dog which has engaged in acts set forth in divisions
(A) through (E):
   (A)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property; or
   (B)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which would
indicate danger to personal safety; or
   (C)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on another
domestic animal; or
   (D)   Bitten a person who was not on the dog owner's property; or
   (E)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks or any property other than the owners, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
   (F)   (1)   A dog which has a history of a propensity, tendency or
disposition to attack while unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening
the safety of humans or domestic animals is a dangerous dog.
      (2)   Unprovoked shall mean the condition in which the dog is not
purposely excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed. It shall be a rebuttable
presumption that any attack on a child 14 years of age or younger is unprovoked
unless the child is engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal activity,
including activities classified under M.S. Ch. 343 as cruelty to animals.
   (G)   Designation as a dangerous dog. The Animal Control Officer shall
designate a dog as a dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that such dog has,
when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (F)(1) above and report such designation
to the Director of Public Safety. The Director of Public Safety shall cause the
owner, or if more than one owner, one of the owners, of the dog to be notified
in writing or in person that the dog is dangerous and may order the dog seized
or make such orders as deemed proper in accordance with division (H) below. The
owner, or one of the owners if more than one owner, shall be notified as to the
date(s) on which, the time(s) when, and place(s) where the dog has bitten,
attacked or threatened a person or domestic animal. The owner, or one of the
owners if more than one owner, shall be given five days excluding intervening
weekends and holidays, to appeal this order by requesting, in writing on a form
provided by the Director of Public Safety, a hearing in accordance with Chapter
31 of this code. The hearing officer shall affirm or reject the Animal Control
Officers dangerous dog designation or may impose other sanctions as warranted.
   (H)   Disposition of dangerous dogs. The Animal Control Officer, after
designation of an animal as dangerous shall determine the disposition of the
dangerous dog.
      (1)   The dangerous dog shall be euthanized; or
      (2)   The dangerous dog shall be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Housed in a proper enclosure. Proper enclosure means securely
confined indoors or in a securely locked pen or structure suitable to prevent
the dog from escaping and to provide protection for the dog from the elements.
A proper enclosure does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house,
garage, or other structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own
volition, or any house or structure in which windows are open or in which door
or window screens are the only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting.
Such enclosure shall not allow the egress of the dog in any manner without
human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the following minimum
specifications:
            1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
            2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be one and one-quarter inch or larger steel
pipe buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not
provided, the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of eighteen inches in the
ground.
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings greater that two inches.
            4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or
kennel.
            5.   Protection from the elements shall be provided.
         (b)   Insurance. The owner provides a certificate of insurance showing
a policy is in place which provides a minimum of $1,000,000 of liability
coverage. If the dog is impounded, proof of insurance must be demonstrated
prior to the dog's release; and
         (c)   Posting.  Post the front and rear of the premises with clearly
visible warning signs including a warning symbol to inform children that there
is a dangerous dog on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51;
         (d)   Muzzle. If the dog is outside the proper enclosure, the dog must
be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash not to exceed six
feet in length and be under the physical restraint of a person 18 years of age
or older. The muzzle must be of such design as to prevent the dog from biting
any person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with
its vision or respiration;
         (e)   Microchip identification required. The owner of a dangerous dog
is required to have a microchip installed or injected on the dog. The microchip
shall be installed in or injected under the skin of the dog by a licensed
veterinarian and shall be designed so that, when scanned by an electronic
reader, it is capable of providing the identification of the dog's owner. An
appropriate fee shall be paid by the owner to the licensed veterinarian for the
microchip. If the dog is impounded, the microchip shall be installed or
injected prior to its release;
         (f)   Annual registration fee. The owner of a dangerous dog is
required to pay an annual registration fee in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the City Council in addition to the annual dog license fee. If
the dog is impounded the fee shall be paid prior to the dog's release.
         (g)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section is a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.09 LICENSE.
   (A)   All dogs and all cats are subject to the provisions of this section.
From time to time the City Council may determine that other animals shall be
subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   All persons owning an animal more than three months old must obtain a
license for the animal from the city. A license shall be for a two-year period
which two-year period shall begin on the first day of the first full month
following the date a license is issued.
   (C)   Any animal owner, upon first becoming a resident of the city or upon
acquiring an animal over three months old, shall be allowed 30 days from the
date residence is established or the date of acquisition of the animal within
which to obtain the animal license. For the purpose of this division, an animal
owner who is going to be a resident of the city for more than 45 days shall be
considered a resident.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for an animal which can be but has not been
vaccinated against rabies. The vaccine used for the vaccination shall be only
that type approved for use by the state. The vaccination shall be performed
only by an individual licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the state in
which the animal is vaccinated. A certificate of vaccination from the
veterinarian administering the vaccination shall be required as part of the
license application, and the certificate shall state that the vaccination will
be effective during the term for which the license is issued.
   (E)   The fee for the license required under this section shall be set by
resolution of the Council for each sterilized animal and for each unsterilized
animal. An applicant for a license for a sterilized animal shall present a
statement from a qualified veterinarian that the animal has been sterilized.
   (F)   Upon payment of the license fee, the Director of Public Safety shall
issue a receipt to the owner and a license tag to be fastened to the collar of
the animal. The owner shall see that the license tag is constantly worn by such
animal unless the animal is in actual training or performance classes for
obedience or confirmation. If any license tag is lost, a substitute tag may be
issued by the Director of Public Safety upon presentation of the owner's
receipt for the current license period and payment of a fee set by the City
Council.
   (G)   Licenses are not transferable, and no refund will be made because of
the death of the animal or a change of residence. Any person who transfers a
license will be in violation of this section and shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (H)   The licensing requirements of this section shall not apply to any
animal belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the city for not
longer than 30 days, provided that all animals shall at all times while within
the city be kept under restraint.
   (I)   No person shall counterfeit the tag(s) provided for in this section or
use counterfeit tag(s) or take from any animal a tag legally placed upon it by
its owner or place a tag so taken upon another animal.
   (J)   Violations of divisions (A) and (B) of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.10 PERMITS - COMMERCIAL AND BREEDER.
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter which does not comply with the rules and
regulations set forth in Chapter 155 of this code.
   (B)   No fee shall be required for any government-operated zoological park
or animal shelter.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be on forms provided by the city.
The application maybe obtained from the Director of Public Safety. The City
Council may promulgate regulations for the issuance of permits and shall
include requirements for humane treatment and care of all animals and for
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable laws. The
City Council may amend such regulations from time to time as deemed desirable
for public health and welfare and for the protection of animals.
   (D)   If a permit applicant has complied with all applicable regulations as
defined within § 90.15(B), a permit shall be issued upon payment of the
applicable fee and compliance with all other requirements by the Director of
Public Safety.
   (E)   The fee for the permit required under this section shall be set by
resolution of the Council for each:
      (1)   Breeder-hobbyist;
      (2)   Breeder-professional;
      (3)   Grooming shop;
      (4)   Kennel, authorized to house fewer than ten dogs or cats;
      (5)   Kennel, authorized to house ten, but less than 50 dogs or cats;
      (6)   Kennel, authorized to house over 50 dogs or cats;
      (7)   Pet shop;
   (F)   If there is a change in ownership or classification, the new owner may
have the permit transferred to his name upon payment of a $10 transfer fee or a
transfer fee in such as may be established by the City Council and compliance
of all rules and regulations.
   (G)   Failure to obtain a permit before opening any facility covered in this
section shall be a misdemeanor and no permit shall be issued for 12 months from
the date application for a permit should have been made.
   (H)   License and permit issuance and revocation.
      (1)   After a permit application is filed, the licensing authority shall
inspect the facility prior to issuing the permit. The licensing authority may
revoke any permit or license if the person holding the permit or license
refuses or fails to comply with or has been convicted of a violation of this
chapter, regulations promulgated by the licensing authority or any law
governing the protection and keeping of animals.
      (2)   Inspection. It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit
or license that the licensing authority shall be permitted to inspect all
animals and the premises where animals are kept at any time and shall, if
permission for such inspection is refused, revoke the permit or license of the
refusing owner.
      (3)   The licensing authority shall automatically review all licenses and
permits issued to animal owners against whom three or more violations of this
chapter have been assessed in a 12-month period.
      (4)   If an applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
application, the licensing authority shall refuse to issue a permit or license
or shall revoke any permit or license issued.
      (5)   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall within ten days
thereafter remove the animals from the city. In the alternative such person may
release ownership of the animals to the city. If the animals are not removed
from the city within ten days the owner shall be considered to have released
ownership of the animals to the city. No part of the permit or license fee
shall be refunded.
      (6)   No person who has been convicted of or pled guilty to a violation
of cruelty to animals by any jurisdiction shall be issued a permit or license
to operate a commercial animal establishment, serve as a breeder for animals,
or train animals.
      (7)   Any person having been denied a license may not reapply for a
period of 30 days. Each re-application shall be accompanied by a fee in an
amount as set by Council.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.11 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS; OTHER DOMESTIC ANIMAL REGULATIONS.
   Generally, all commercial animal establishments shall meet the following
conditions:
   (A)   Animal housing facilities shall be provided for the animals and shall
be structurally sound, constructed of non-toxic materials, maintained in good
repair and designed so as to protect the animals from injury and restrict the
entrance of other animals. Each animal shall be provided with adequate floor
space to allow it, according to species and breed, to breathe, eliminate
wastes, stand, sit, and lie in a comfortable normal position and sanitary
environment.
   (B)   Water shall be supplied at sufficient pressure and quantity to clean
housing facilities and enclosures of debris and excreta.
   (C)   Adequate food and bedding shall be provided and stored in facilities
which provide protection against infestation or contamination by insects or
rodents. Refrigeration shall be provided for the protection of perishable
foods.
   (D)   Provisions shall be made for the removal and disposal of animal
wastes, bedding, dead animals and debris. Disposal facilities shall be so
provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors and disease.
   (E)   Each animal shall be observed daily. Sick, diseased or injured animals
shall be separated from those appearing healthy and normal. Sick, diseased or
injured animals shall be removed from daily display and sale and kept in
isolated quarters. Ventilation of quarters for sick or diseased animals shall
be arranged to avoid contamination of healthy animals.
   (F)   An employee, keeper or owner shall make provision to feed, water and
provide other necessary care for animals on days the store or establishment is
closed.
   (G)   No person shall knowingly misrepresent an animal to a consumer in any
way. No person shall knowingly sell a sick or injured animal. Adequate care and
feeding instructions shall be given, in writing, to each animal purchaser.
   (H)   Animals which are caged, closely confined or restrained shall be
permitted to exercise daily for an appropriate length of time as determined by
their size, age, and species, in an area suitable for that purpose.
   (I)   Facilities shall be clean and sanitary at all times.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.12 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DOGS.
   (A)   Tie-out/picketing. No dog shall be tied-out/picketed in such a manner
that the dogs ability to move about freely is restricted. The minimum
acceptable area shall be ten feet in any direction from the tie out/picketing
device. No tie-out/picket shall be utilized as a means of containing a dog in
excess of nine hours in any 24-hour period. The tie-out/picket shall be
designed for the specific purpose of tying out or picketing a dog. A chain
which is not commensurate with the size of the dog shall not be permitted. It
shall be unlawful for any person to allow the area the dog is tiedout/picketed
to remain in a unhealthy, unsanitary or obnoxious condition. The tieout/
picketed area must be maintained in such a manner that the dog does not lie in
mud and water or snow and ice. No dog shall be tie-out/picketed in such a
manner as to create a nuisance by reason of odor or unreasonably disturbing the
peace and quiet as defined in § 90.03 or which allows it to occupy any area
within 20 feet of a property line. No tie-out/picket shall be utilized as means
of containing a dog.
   (B)   Electronic pet containment system. An electronic pet containment
system shall not be considered adequate to restrain a dog.
   (C)   Clean yard and enclosure. A dog owner shall regularly clean any yard
occupied by the dog so feces and food scraps are not permitted to accumulate
and emit an objectionable odor. Every enclosure occupied by the dog, whether
now existing or hereafter constructed shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and free of rodents, vermin and objectionable odors. Manure
shall be removed with sufficient frequency to avoid nuisance from odors or from
the breeding of flies. At least twice each month from October 1 to May 1 and at
least once per week May 1 to September 31 shall be considered a minimum. Feces
or food scraps shall not be permitted to remain more than 12 hours in an area
utilized as a tie-out/picket area.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.13 ANIMAL TREATMENT.
   Cruelty to animals.
   (A)   Infliction of pain or death. No person shall knowingly or unknowingly,
intentionally or maliciously kill, injure or inflict pain or suffering on any
animal. No person shall permit, by neglect or inaction, the death or injury or
infliction of pain or suffering on any animal. No person shall beat, cruelly
treat, torment, overload or otherwise abuse or kill an animal or cause,
instigate or permit any fight between animals or between animals and humans, or
attend such fights. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Proper food and shelter. No owner or person with the custody of an
animal for more than 12 consecutive hours shall fail to provide the animal with
sufficient wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities,
proper air, shade or shelter space, protection from the weather, veterinary
care as needed to maintain health and prevent suffering, and other humane care
and treatment. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
      (1)   Shade shall mean protection from the direct rays of the sun during
the months of June to September. (Reference M.S. § 343.40 Subd. 2)
      (2)   Shelter shall mean a moisture-proof and wind-proof structure of
suitable size to accommodate the animal and allow retention of body heat. It
shall be made of durable material with a solid, moisture-proof floor or a floor
raised at least two inches from the ground. Between November 1 and March 31 the
structure must have a windbreak to the entrance. The structure shall be
provided with sufficient quantity of suitable bedding material consisting of
hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets or the equivalent, to provide insulation
and protection against cold and dampness and promote retention of body heat.
(Reference M.S. § 343.40 Subd. 2)
      (3)   All pens, yards or runs, or other structures wherein any animal is
kept shall be of such construction so as to be easily cleaned and maintained
and shall be maintained in good repair. Fences which are intended as enclosures
for any animal shall be securely constructed, adequate for the purpose, and
kept in good repair, in compliance with all ordinances.
   (C)   Abandonment.  No person shall abandon any animal which the person owns
or is in the person's custody. In this context, abandon means to leave the
animal unattended for more than 48 consecutive hours, or without food, water or
shelter for than 12 hours. Any person convicted of violating this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Poisoning. No person shall expose any known poisonous substance,
whether mixed with food or not, so that a reasonable person would know that
such substance probably cause animals to be attracted thereto, eat thereof and
be poisoned thereby; provided, however, this substance does not make unlawful
the poisoning of rats and mice with commercial rat poison with vegetable
substances. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (E)   Animals as prizes. No person shall give away any live animal, fish,
reptile or bird as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter, any contest, game
or other competition, or as an inducement to enter any place of amusement, or
as an incentive to enter into any business agreement where the offer was for
the purpose of attracting trade. Any person convicted of violating this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Confinement in vehicles. No person shall confine an animal within a
parked, closed vehicle, without allowing cross-ventilation. Under no
circumstances shall a person confine any animal in any parked, closed vehicle
on any public street or way for more than 30 minutes, or where the temperature
in the vehicle exceeds 90º Fahrenheit. Any animal control or peace officer
observing an animal kept in violation of this section may enter the vehicle and
impound the animal. In addition to all other defenses and immunities provided
by law, any such officer making entry for the purpose of this section is immune
from the suit or liability, criminal or civil, for, caused by, or arising out
of such entry. Any person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   (G)   Protective custody.
      (1)   Any animal found receiving inhumane treatment may be removed and
impounded at the expense of the owner.
      (2)   Any animal whose life reasonably appears to be endangered may be so
removed and impounded, whether or not the owner is present. The person who
caused the life of the animal to be endangered shall be responsible for the
expenses of removal and impounding.
   (H)   Exceptions to this division. Nothing in this division shall be deemed
to prohibit any action by a licensed veterinarian done in accordance with
accepted standards of veterinary medicine. Nothing in this division shall be
interpreted as prohibiting any act done in self-defense or to defend another
person.
   (I)   Enforcement. An Animal Control Officer or police officer may issue a
citation to the owner of any animal and/or remove any animal from any premises
if the welfare of that animal is threatened due to a violation of this section.
   (J)   Reclaiming neglected/abused animals. Any animal removed from any
premises pursuant to this division, may be reclaimed by the owner within five
working days for the time the animal was taken, provided all conditions for
which the animal was removed have been corrected. The owner shall also be
liable for payment of all boarding fees to the city. Any animal not reclaimed
within the time allowed maybe disposed of in the manner prescribed by § 90.08
(H).
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.14 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   An animal enclosure, whether now existing or hereafter constructed,
shall not exceed 300 square feet in area and shall only be located in the rear
yard or side yard as defined within this chapter and no closer than three feet
to any property line with the exception that no enclosure shall be located
within 50 feet of any church or school building. An enclosure which is not in
compliance with this division on the date this chapter is adopted must be
brought into compliance within 60 days of the date this chapter is adopted. Any
person convicted of violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   An enclosure shall be constructed of durable material with a solid,
moisture-proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak to promote
retention of body heat. The structure shall be provided with sufficient
quantity of suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings,
blankets or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold
and dampness and promote retention of body heat. Any person convicted of
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
§ 90.15 CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   If no criminal penalty is provided for by any provision of this chapter and
the provision is of the type which usually carries a criminal penalty for its
violation, a person who violates such provision shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 980, passed 8-22-05)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
91.01   Incinerators and open burning
Cross-reference:
   Opening fire hydrant unlawful, see §
53.03
§ 91.01 INCINERATORS AND OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire, rubbish fire, or
outdoor fire of any type or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained
within the boundaries of the city unless specially authorized to do so by the
City Council.
   (B)   The City Council may, in extraordinary circumstances, authorize
bonfires, rubbish fires, or other outdoor fires so long as they are not
prohibited by other federal or state laws.
   (C)   A request for special authorization to conduct an outdoor fire shall
be made by application to the City Clerk on a form prescribed by the city. The
application shall state with specificity the extraordinary circumstances
existing which might justify the special authorization. The City Clerk shall
notify the Fire Chief of the Fire Department of any applications for special
authorization and shall provide the Chief with a copy of said application
before it is submitted to the City Council for consideration.
   (D)   If special authorization for an outdoor fire is granted, the
provisions of the Uniform Fire Code and the powers of the Fire Chief to
prohibit any outdoor fire when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances
make such fires hazardous, shall apply to any such outdoor fire.
   (E)   This section does not apply to fires set for recreational, ceremonial,
food preparation, or social purposes provided that only wood, coal, or charcoal
is burned.
   (F)   This section does not authorize the open burning of leaves pursuant to
M.S. § 116.082.
   (G)   A violation of this section is and shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 738, passed 7-10-89)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Public nuisances defined
   
92.02   Nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.04   Nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.05   Duties of city officers
   
92.06   Abatement - enforcement procedure
   
92.07   Recovery of cost
   
92.08   Private cause of action
Blight
   
92.20   Causes of blight or blighting factors
   
92.21   Exterior property areas; vacant properties
   
92.22   Foundations, exterior walls and surfaces, roofs
   
92.23   Windows, exterior doors, basement hatchways
Graffiti
   
92.35   Elimination of graffiti
   
92.36   Definitions
   
92.37   Prohibited acts
   
92.38   Graffiti as a public nuisance
   
92.39   Removal of graffiti by perpetrator
   
92.40   Removal of graffiti by property owner or city
   
92.41   Violations
Noises
   
92.55   Unnecessary noise generally
   
92.56   Parties and gatherings
   
92.57   Permitted sounds
   
92.58   Radios, tapes and disc players
Animals
   
92.70   Keeping without permit declared nuisance
   
92.71   Running at large
   
92.72   Grandfather provision
   
92.73   Manner of keeping and care of premises
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   (A)   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty
intentionally does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this
chapter to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any person, organization or entity that makes or causes any public
nuisance, as defined above, to exist shall be deemed to be the author of the
nuisance. Moreover, any person who has possession or control of any private
property or premises, whether he or she is the owner of the property or not,
where any nuisance exists or is found, shall be deemed the author of the
nuisance. Moreover, any person who is the owner of the private property or
premises, or an agent for the owner of private property or premises, who,
having received prior notice of the existence of such nuisance, shall fail to
remove the thing or things or abate the condition described in such notice,
shall be deemed the author of the nuisance. Each and every day during which a
nuisance continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall be prosecutable
and punishable as a separate offense.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All animals running at large, or animals kept in violation of this
chapter;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, other than landscaping ponds,
swimming pools, storm retention ponds, drainage ponds or ditches which convey
storm water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   The deposit or accumulation of litter upon any property within the
city, except for the composting of yard wastes in appropriate containers, as
defined below:
      (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, LITTER shall be defined as
follows: all rubbish, waste material, refuse, garbage, trash, debris;
excrement, urine, offal composed of animal matter or vegetable matter, or both;
or any noxious or offensive matter whatever, including, but not limited to any
discarded or dead animals, dead birds, dead fish, chemicals, chemical
compounds, petroleum products or compounds, automobile parts or accessories,
tires, wheels, furniture, appliances, junk, paper, cardboard, lids, bottles,
caps, cartons, wrappers, boxes, wooden objects, plastic objects, clothing,
cloth, metal objects, rubber objects, leather objects, hides, feathers, grass
clippings, leaves, cut weeds, branches cut from trees or bushes, building
materials, brick, cinder block, paint, concrete, sand, gravel, stone, glass,
asphalt, ashes, cigarettes, cigars, food or food products, solvents, dyes,
beverages and liquids, except water.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, "litter" shall not include the
composting of yard wastes at any authorized facility, or composting in compost-
holding units which meet the following specifications:
         (a)   Does not exceed 125 cubic feet in volume;
         (b)   Shall be constructed of wood, wire, metal or plastic, excluding
plastic bags;
         (c)   May be a stationary or a rotating unit;
         (d)   Shall be located in the rear of the property and shall be
screened or fenced so that it is not readily visible;
         (e)   Shall be maintained to minimize odors;
         (f)   Shall not be allowed to attract rodents or to become a health or
safety hazard;
   (F)   Garbage cans or recycling containers which are not rodent-free or fly-
tight, or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit
foul and disagreeable odors;
   (G)   All noxious weeds and other growths of vegetation upon public or
private property in violation of the city code;
   (H)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (I)   The posting, placement, gluing, stapling, nailing, affixing or
attachment of any handbill, poster, placard, sign, announcement or other
painted or printed material upon or to any street, alley, sidewalk, lawful
sign, telephone pole, power pole, light pole or traffic signal pole located on
public property within the city, except as permitted within the City Building
and Zoning Ordinance;
   (J)   All graffiti, as defined in § 92.36, located on the exterior of public
or private property within the city;
   (K)   The deposit or storage of any inoperable or junk car or motor vehicle
on a public street or alley, or on any private property. This provision shall
not apply to inoperable or junk motor vehicles stored within a building or to
storage of such vehicles on property that is zoned for such use by the
provisions of the City Building and Zoning Ordinance, nor shall this provision
apply to vehicles defined as restorable or parts cars, provided that such
vehicles are stored in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   To permit or allow any partially-completed building or structure to
exist when no current building permit exists for such building or structure, or
when a previously-issued building permit for such building or structure has
expired. Notwithstanding the existence of a current building permit, for all
buildings and structures and work that have not begun within one year, or if
the work lies idle for a period of six months or more if the work has not been
substantially completed in 21/2 years of the date of the permit issuance, the
permit shall expire and the building or structure shall be declared a public
nuisance.
   (M)   To permit or allow soil erosion to occur that results in soil being
deposited upon adjacent properties, public rights-of-way, public waters or
storm drainage systems.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.03 NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All illegal gambling devices;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations;
   (C)   All houses or buildings kept for the purpose of prostitution or
promiscuous sexual intercourse, the sexual exploitation of children, the sale
or use of illegal controlled substances, gambling houses, houses of ill fame,
bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place;
   (E)   Homes, residences, condominiums, townhouses, apartments or any other
type of dwelling unit or structure which generates repeated calls to the Police
Department resulting in criminal charges being filed with the court for
disorderly conduct, unreasonably loud parties, illegal alcohol sales and/or
consumption, illegal controlled substance sales and/or possession, animals
running at large, unreasonable animal odors or unreasonably loud music. For
purpose of this subdivision, "repeated" shall mean more than three
substantiated calls to the police during a 12 month period which result in
criminal charges.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.04 NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow, ice, dirt, mud and litter remaining on a public sidewalk
more than 12 hours after its deposit thereon;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection from
a point within 25 feet of the intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations, as defined in §§ 92.55
through 92.58 of this chapter;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under such conditions as
are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials, satellite dishes or television antennae erected or
maintained in a dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as permitted by ordinance or other applicable laws;
   (I)   Any barb wire fence or other fence constructed in such a manner to
present a hazard to children or pedestrians within the limits of the city,
except that a barb wire type fence will be permitted within a commercial,
manufacturing, industrial or transitional zone as a security device, provided
the barb wire type fence is located a minimum of six feet above the grade
surface;
   (J)   Any electric fence located within the limits of the city;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from such accumulation;
   (M)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
   (N)   The placing or casting of leaves, litter, grass clippings or brush so
as to obstruct the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a public street
drain, gutter or ditch;
   (O)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (P)   The depositing of litter, as defined above, on a public right-of-way
or on adjacent private property;
   (Q)   The presence of graffiti on public or private property in violation of
§§ 92.35 through 92.41 of this chapter;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.05 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   A position of Neighborhood Services Officer is hereby created for the
purpose of primary responsibility for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter relating to nuisances as defined herein. From time to time the Council
may assign to the Neighborhood Services Officer enforcement of the provisions
of other ordinances of the City. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter and the provisions of other ordinances, the enforcement of which
may from time to time be assigned to the Neighborhood Services Officer, the
Neighborhood Services Officer is specifically authorized to issue petty
misdemeanor citations for violation of an ordinance which the Neighborhood
Services Officer is authorized to enforce. The Police Department shall enforce
provisions relating to other nuisances and shall assist the other designated
officers in the enforcement of provisions relating to nuisances affecting
public safety. Such officers shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 9-10-07)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT - ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served
by the officer charged with enforcement on either the owner of record or the
occupant of the premises if the occupant be other than the owner. If the
nuisance appears to be of a kind or nature which only the owner can abate, the
owner of the premises must be served. The notice shall be served either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises are not occupied and
the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept the notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting
it on the premises. Deposit in the mail of a notice, addressed to the last
known address of the person to whom the notice is directed, which can be served
by certified or registered mail shall be considered service. If the notice of
violation is served by mail, the date the notice is deposited in the mail shall
be the date of service. The notice shall state the provision or provisions of
the chapter being enforced which is or are being violated. The notice shall
provide a time limit during the which the person being notified can do one of
the following:
         (a)   Abate the nuisance;
         (b)   Contact the Neighborhood Services Officer; or
         (c)   Appeal the matter to the Legislative Hearing Officer in
accordance with
Chapter 31 of the city code.
      (2)   In the sole discretion of the Neighborhood Services Officer, the
time limit may vary but shall never be less than five days nor more than 20
days from the date notice is served. The notice shall also advise the person
upon whom the notice is served that the matter may be referred to the City
Attorney or the Director of Public Safety for the purpose of having a criminal
misdemeanor complaint issued if one of (a), (b), or (c) , as set forth above,
is not done within the time limit. Further the notice shall advise the person
upon whom the notice is served that each day beyond the time limit may be
charged as a separate misdemeanor.
   (B)   Issuance of citation. As an alternative to the notice of violation for
which provision is made in division (A) above, the Neighborhood Services
Officer may issue a petty misdemeanor citation. Before a citation for a petty
misdemeanor is issued, the Neighborhood Services Officer shall advise the
person to whom the citation will be issued of a date by which the nuisance
shall be abated. Such advice shall be by written notice. The written notice
shall also advise the person to whom issued, that each day beyond the date set
for abatement of the nuisance shall be considered a new violation for which an
additional misdemeanor citation will be issued. The provisions of this section
which provide for the right to appeal to the Legislative Hearings Officer shall
not apply to this division and the sole resort of the person to whom notice a
citation will be issued is delivered or to whom a citation is issued shall be
the court which has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 9-10-07)
§ 92.07 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official designated
by the Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside  the traveled portion of streets
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the Clerk shall, on or before September 1
next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along
with all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The Council may then spread the charges against such
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year
or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as Council may determine in each
case.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.08 PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION.
   Any person who has been damaged by a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall have a private civil cause of action against the violator which
many be brought in State District Court in the manner provided by law. Any
action brought under this section shall be tried to the Court. The Court shall
hear the evidence, and if the case is proven by a preponderance of the
evidence, the Court shall issue an order for appropriate relief, which may
include an award of monetary damages, injunctive relief or other remedies which
the Court believes will effectuate the purpose of this chapter. If the Court
finds that the person bringing the action prevails, the Court shall award the
person his/her costs, disbursements and a reasonable attorney's fee for
pursuing the action.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
BLIGHT
§ 92.20 CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   It is hereby determined that the uses, structures, activities and causes of
blight or blighting factors described herein, if allowed to exist, will tend to
result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods so as to be harmful to the
public welfare, health and safety. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect
the character and stability of properties within the city and to avoid blight
and blighted conditions. The owner and any occupant shall comply with the
regulations contained in §§ 92.21 and 92.22.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.21 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS; VACANT PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following terms are
hereby defined:
      FRONT YARD. That part of a lot between an adjacent street right-of-way
line and the principal building of the lot, and extending to each side lot
line.
      REAR YARD. That part of a lot between the rear lot line and the back of
the principal building of the lot, extending to both side lot lines.
      SIDE YARD. That part of the lot between the principal building and an
interior side lot line, extending to the front and rear yards.
   (B)   Residential.
      (1)   In residentially zoned districts, all materials, machinery,
vehicles and equipment shall be either stored within a building or be fully
screened so as not to be visible from adjoining or adjacent land and the
street, except for the following:
         (a)   Agricultural and landscaping equipment/materials in current use
on the premises;
         (b)   Construction materials/equipment in current use on the premises;
         (c)   Except as expressly permitted vehicles undergoing restoration
under §
97.14, or as otherwise permitted by the City's Building and Zoning Ordinance,
automobiles, pickup trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, boats,
snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles and other recreational equipment bearing
current vehicle registration licenses in the driveway, except that no such
vehicle shall be used for the storage of litter, scrap metal or recyclable
objects;
         (d)   Firewood, neatly stacked, intended for use on the premises;
         (e)   Lawn furniture and play equipment;
         (f)   Dog kennels in the rear or side yard;
         (g)   Covered, rigid garbage containers in the rear yard, or side yard
when fully screened.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be parked on the front, rear or side yard of
residentially zoned property in such a manner as to create permanent ruts or
damage to the grass or as to create erosion of top soil.
      (3)   No motor vehicle may be parked upon any portion of the boulevard
adjacent to or adjoining residentially zoned property which constitutes
municipal, county or state right-of-way.
   (C)   Commercial.
      (1)   In all commercial, industrial, business and transitional zoning
districts, all materials, machinery, vehicles and equipment shall be stored
within a building or be fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
or adjacent lands and the street, except for the following:
         (a)   Landscaping materials/equipment in current use on the premises;
         (b)   Construction materials/equipment in current use on the premises;
         (c)   Motor vehicles bearing current registration licenses, provided
the vehicles are necessary for the operation of the business;
         (d)   Licensed or unlicensed motor vehicles, agricultural or
industrial equipment for sale, distribution, repair or rent by authorized
dealers and businesses; this provision shall not include inoperable vehicles.
         (e)   Items or materials which, by their nature, require exterior
storage and are offered for sale on the premises;
         (f)   Covered, rigid garbage containers in the rear yard, or side yard
when fully screened.
      (2)   In such business, industrial, transitional and commercial
districts, all open areas and parts of premises shall be maintained and kept in
a reasonably clean and neat condition. This requirement shall include the
removal of dead trees and brush; the removal of inoperable machines,
appliances, fixtures and equipment so damaged, deteriorated or obsolete as to
have no substantial value and which constitute junk; the removal of lumber
piles and building materials not being used in actual construction on the
premises unless such premises are being used by a business dealing in or
requiring the use of such lumber and materials; and the removal of tin cans,
broken glass, broken furniture, mattresses, box springs, crates, cardboard,
tires, and other debris. Nothing in this section shall restrict the activities
of duly established and permitted junk or salvage yards.
      (3)   Every foundation, exterior wall, roof, window, exterior door,
basement hatchway and every other entranceway of every nondwelling structure
shall be so maintained as to prevent the structure from becoming a harborage
for rodents, vermin and insects, and shall be kept in a reasonably good state
of maintenance. All walls and fences shall be plumb and true, free of holes,
missing, loose, or rotting boards or posts and loose or peeling paint.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 92.22 FOUNDATIONS, EXTERIOR WALLS AND SURFACES, ROOFS.
   Every foundation, chimney, exterior wall and surface and roof shall be
weathertight, watertight, rodent proof and insect proof, and shall be kept in a
workmanlike state of maintenance and repair.
   (A)   The foundation elements shall support the building at all points.
   (B)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or rotten
boards or timbers and any other condition which might admit rodents, rain or
dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the interior space of the
dwelling.
   (C)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain or other
forms of moisture. Roof drainage shall be such that it prevents rain water from
causing dampness to the walls.
   (D)   All exterior surfaces shall be of a material manufactured and
processed specifically for use in a weather-exposed location, including
roofing, exterior painted wood, masonry, exposed redwood and other naturally
suitable materials. Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from
dilapidation, including those conditions caused by extensive cracks, tears or
breaks and by extensively deteriorated plaster, stucco, brick, wood or other
materials or combinations of materials.
   (E)   The exposed surface of exterior walls on a building above ground level
shall be maintained in good repair so as to provide both sufficient covering
and sufficient protection of true surface underneath against its deterioration.
Without limiting the generality of this section, an exposed surface of a
building shall be deemed not to be in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
not to be in good repair if either or both of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The painted surface area is blistered, cracked, flaked, scaled or
chalked away, and such conditions extend over more than 25% of the surface area
of any plane or wall or other area, including porch trim, cornice members,
porch railings and such other areas;
      (2)   More than 10% of the pointing of any masonry chimney or more than
25% of the pointing of any masonry wall is loose, has fallen out or otherwise
does not exist.
   (F)   Any exterior surface or plane required to be repaired under the
provisions of this section shall be repaired in its entirety to make it
weathertight, watertight and rodent proof.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.23 WINDOWS, EXTERIOR DOORS, BASEMENT HATCHWAYS.
   Every window, exterior door and basement hatchway shall be kept
weathertight, watertight and rodent proof, and shall be kept in working
condition and in a workmanlike state of maintenance and repair.
   (A)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are
without open cracks or holes.
   (B)   All window screens shall be in good condition and without open tears
or holes.
   (C)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit tight within its
frame.
   (D)   Every exterior door, door hinge and door latch shall be in good
condition.
   (E)   Every exterior door when closed shall fit in a workmanlike condition
within its frame.
   (F)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
such relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain
and to substantially exclude wind from entering the structure.
   (G)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as to
prevent the entrance of rodents and rain.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
GRAFFITI
§ 92.35 ELIMINATION OF GRAFFITI.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds and declares that graffiti is a public
nuisance and destructive to the rights and values of property owners as well as
the private community. Unless the city acts to remove graffiti from public and
private property, the graffiti tends to remain.
   (B)   The City Council specifically finds that, based on information
collected by its Police Department and studies of criminal gang activity,
graffiti associated with criminal gang activity is not protected speech and its
presence on property in this community is detrimental to the health, welfare,
morals and safety of persons in the city. Other properties then become the
target of graffiti, and entire neighborhoods are affected and become less
desirable places in which to be, to the detriment of the city. The City Council
intends, through this chapter, to provide additional enforcement tools to
protect public and private property from acts of graffiti vandalism and
defacement. The Council does not intend for this chapter to conflict with any
anti-graffiti state laws currently existing.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER. Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purposes of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD-TIPPED MARKER. Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that at its broadest width is greater than 4%
of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT. Any tool, device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or man-made surface.
   GRAFFITI.
      (1)   Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed to be a public nuisance by the City
Council, or
      (2)   Any inscription, word, figure, painting or other defacement that is
written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted or engraved on or
otherwise affixed to the surface of any public or private property by any
graffiti implement which is considered to be documented criminal gang graffiti
by the Police Department.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or man-made
surface.
   PAINT STICK or GRAFFITI STICK. Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy or other similar substance capable of being applied to a
surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth of an inch in
width.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee or any other
legal entity.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.37 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Defacement. It shall be unlawful for any persons to apply graffiti to
any natural or man-made surface on any city-owned or private property.
   (B)   Possession of graffiti implements.
      (1)   By minors at or near school facilities. It is unlawful for any
person under the age of 18 years to possess any graffiti implement while on any
school property, grounds, facilities, buildings or structures, or in areas
immediately adjacent to those specific locations upon public property, or upon
private property without the prior written consent of the owner or occupant of
such private property. The provision of this section does not apply to the
possession of a broad-tipped marker by a minor attending or traveling to or
from a school at which the minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a
class that the school formally requires the possession of broad-tipped markers.
The burden of proof in any prosecution for violation of this section is upon
the minor student to establish the need to possess a broad-tipped marker.
      (2)   In designated public places. It is unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or other public building or
structure owned or operated by the city or while in or within 50 feet of an
underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain or similar types of infrastructure
unless otherwise authorized by the city.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.38 GRAFFITI AS A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The existence of graffiti on public or private property in violation
of this chapter is expressly declared to be a public nuisance and, therefore,
is subject to the removal and abatement provisions specified in this chapter.
   (B)   It is the duty of both the owner of the property to which the graffiti
has been applied and any person who many be in possession or who has the right
to possess such property at all times to keep the property clear of graffiti.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.39 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PERPETRATOR.
   Any person applying graffiti on public or private property has the duty to
remove the graffiti within 24 hours after notice by the city or private owner
of the property involved. Such removal must be done in a manner prescribed by
the Chief of Police, the Director of the Department of Public Works or any
additional city department head, as authorized by the City Council. Any person
applying graffiti is responsible for the removal or for the payment of the
removal. Failure of any person to remove graffiti or pay for the removal shall
constitute an additional violation of this chapter. Where graffiti is applied
by an unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian are also responsible
for such removal or for the payment for the removal.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.40 REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PROPERTY OWNER OR CITY.
   If graffiti is not removed by the perpetrator according to § 92.39, graffiti
shall be removed pursuant to the following provisions:
   (A)   Property owner responsibility. It is unlawful for any person who is
the owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or for
repair or maintenance of property in the city to permit property that is
defaced by graffiti to remain defaced for a period of ten days after service by
first class mail of notice of the defacement. The notice shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The street address and legal description of the property sufficient
for identification of the property;
      (2)   A statement that the property is a potential graffiti nuisance
property with a concise description of the conditions leading to the finding;
      (3)   A statement that the graffiti must be removed within ten days after
receipt of the notice and that if the graffiti is not abated within that time
the city will declare the property to be a public nuisance, subject to the
abatement procedures in this City Code.
   (B)   Exceptions to property owner responsibility. The removal requirements
of division (A) do not apply if the property owner or responsible party can
demonstrate that:
      (1)   The property owner or responsible party demonstrates, to the
satisfaction of the City Administrator, that immediate removal of the defacing
graffiti would constitute a genuine financial hardship;
      (2)   The property owner has an active program for the removal of
graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part of that program,
in which case it is unlawful to permit such property to remain defaced with
graffiti for a period of 15 days after service by first class mail of notice of
the defacement; or
      (3)   Between the months of November 1 and April 1, because of cold
weather, the graffiti cannot be effectively removed or painted over without
unusual expense and difficulty. In situations coming within this subdivision,
the city may require the property owner to cover the graffiti in a temporary
manner.
   (C)   Right of city to remove.  
      (1)   Use of public funds. Whenever the city becomes aware or is notified
and determines that graffiti is located on publicly or privately owned property
viewable from a public place, the city is authorized to use public funds for
the removal of the graffiti, or for the painting or repairing of the graffiti,
but will not authorize or undertake to provide for the painting or repair of
any more extensive an area than that where the graffiti is located, unless the
City Administrator, or the designee of the City
Administrator, determines in writing that a more extensive area is required to
be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the
neighborhood or community, or unless the property owner or responsible party
agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the more extensive area.
      (2)   Right of entry on private property. Prior to entering upon private
property or property owned by a public entity other than the city for the
purpose of graffiti removal, the city must attempt to secure the consent of the
property owner or responsible party and a release of the city from liability
for property damage or personal injury. If the responsible party fails to
remove the offending graffiti within the time specified by this chapter, or if
the city has requested consent to remove or paint over the offending graffiti
and the property owner or responsible party has refused consent for entry on
terms acceptable to the city and consistent with the terms of this section, the
city will commence abatement and cost recovery proceedings for the graffiti
removal according to the provisions specified below.
      (3)   Abatement and cost recovery proceedings.
         (a)   Notice of due process hearing. The City Administrator, or the
designee of the City Administrator, serving as the Hearing Officer, must
provide the property owner of record and the party responsible for the
maintenance of the property, if a person different than the owner, not less
than 48 hours notice of the city's intent to hold a due process hearing at
which the property owner or responsible party is entitled to present evidence
and argue that the property does not constitute a public nuisance. Notice must
be served in the same manner as a summons in a civil action according to state
law. If the owner of record cannot be found after a diligent search, the notice
may be served by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place upon the
property for a period of ten days and publication thereof in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the area in which the property is located.
         (b)   Determination of Hearing Officer. The determination of the
Hearing Officer after the due process hearing is final and not appealable. If,
after the due process hearing, regardless of the attendance of the owner or the
responsible party or their respective agents, the Hearing Officer determines
that the property contains graffiti viewable from a public or quasi-public
place, the Hearing Officer must give written notice in an eradication order
that, unless the graffiti is removed within ten days, the city may enter upon
the property, cause the removal, painting over (in such color as that meets
with the approval of the Hearing Officer) or such other eradication thereof as
the Hearing Officer determines appropriate, and provide the owner and the
responsible party thereafter with an accounting of the cost of the eradication
effort on a full cost recovery basis.
         (c)   Eradication effort. Not sooner than the time specified in the
order of the Hearing Officer, the City Administrator or the designee of the
City Administrator is to implement the eradication order and provide an
accounting to the owner and responsible party of the costs thereof.
         (d)   Cost hearing. The owner or responsible party may request a cost
hearing before the Hearing Officer on the eradication accounting, and
appropriate due process must be extended to the owner or responsible party. If
following the cost hearing or, if no hearing is requested, after the
implementation of the eradication order, the Hearing Officer determines that
all or a portion of the cost are appropriately chargeable to the eradication
effort, the total amount set forth in the eradication accounting or an amount
thereof determined as appropriate by the Hearing Officer is due and payable by
the owner or responsible party within 30 days. Any amount of eradication
charges assessed by the Hearing Officer that are less than the total amount set
forth in the eradication accounting must be explained by written letter from
the Hearing Officer to the City Council.
   (D)   Lien. As to such property where the responsible party is the property
owner, if all or any portion of the assessed eradication charges remain unpaid
after 30 days, the portion thereof that remains unpaid constitutes a lien on
the property that was the subject of the eradication effort.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.41 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Fines and imprisonment. Any person violating this subchapter is guilty
of a misdemeanor.
      (1)   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian are jointly
and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
      (2)   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will
result in the filing of a lien on the parents' or legal guardian's property
that includes the fine and administrative costs.
   (B)   Restitution. In addition to any punishment specified in this section,
the Court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim for
damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in the
amount or manner determined by the Court. Restitution may include, with the
consent of the owner of the damaged property, an order that the violator
personally remove the graffiti through community service work, if the graffiti
has not been removed as required by this chapter. In the case of a minor, the
parents or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with
the
minor to make restitution.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
NOISES
§ 92.55 UNNECESSARY NOISE GENERALLY.
   No person shall make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud,
unnecessary or unusual noise which unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, convenience, safety, health, welfare or repose of
persons in the vicinity thereof, unless the making, continuing or causing to
be made or continued of such noise cannot be prevented and is for the
protection or preservation of property or of the health, safety, life or limb
of some person.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.56 PARTIES AND GATHERINGS.
   No person shall, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., attend or
participate in any party or gathering of four or more persons from which noise
emanates in sufficient volume to disturb the peace, quiet, comfort or repose of
persons in any hospital or office, or in any dwelling, hotel, motel or other
type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity; nor shall any person visit
or remain in any dwelling, structure or place where such party or gathering is
taking place, except persons who have gone there for the purpose of abating
such noise or disturbance.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.57 PERMITTED SOUNDS.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to classify as loud, unusual or
unnecessary sounds from any of the following activities:
   (A)   Marching and/or playing of music by band, orchestra or other musical
aggregations;
   (B)   Church bells, chimes and carillons;
   (C)   Duly authorized parades;
   (D)   Civil defense sirens or golf course lightning warning sirens;
   (E)   Any other activity duly authorized by the city.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.58 RADIOS, TAPES AND DISC PLAYERS.
   No person shall use, operate or permit to be played any radio receiving set,
tape or disc player, musical instrument, phonograph, stereo, public address
system or other device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such
manner, considering the time and place and the purpose for which sound is
produced, so as to disturb the peace, quiet or repose of a person or persons of
ordinary sensibilities.
   (A)   The play, use or operation of any radio, tape or disc player, musical
instrument, phonograph, stereo or other machine or device for the production or
reproduction of sound in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance
of 50 feet from such machine or device shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this section.
   (B)   When sound violating this section is produced or reproduced by a
machine or device that is located in or on a vehicle, the vehicle's owner is
guilty of the violation, provided, however, that if the vehicle's owner is not
present at the time of the violation, the person in charge or control of the
vehicle at the time of the violation is guilty of the violation.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to sound procured by the following
amplifying equipment used in connection with activities which are authorized,
sponsored or permitted by the city, so long as the activity is conducted
pursuant to the conditions of the license, permit or contract authorizing such
activity: church bells, chimes or carillons; school bells; anti-theft devices;
or machines or devices for the production of sound on or in authorized
emergency vehicles.
   (D)   With the exception of the machines or devices listed in division (C)
of this section, this section shall apply to all radios, tape and disc players,
musical instruments, phonographs and machines and devices for the production or
reproduction of sound, whether on public or private property.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
ANIMALS
§ 92.70 KEEPING WITHOUT PERMIT DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The keeping, harboring or permitting of cattle, horses, sheep, goats,
rabbits, pigeons, fowl or swine in the city without a permit constitutes a
public nuisance unless they are to be kept only temporarily in a stockyard or
farm produce establishment awaiting transportation or slaughter or for
exhibition purposes.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.71 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person having the control of any
dog, cat, cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, swine, goats, poultry or geese
to allow or permit the same to run at large within the city.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.72 GRANDFATHER PROVISION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any property owner who on the date of
enactment of this chapter had been permitted by the city to keep any animal
listed in § 92.70 within the city limits. This exception shall not apply after
the animals are not kept on the property for a period of two weeks (14 days) or
more, or if the property where the animals are kept is sold or leased to
another party.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
§ 92.73 MANNER OF KEEPING AND CARE OF PREMISES.
   No person shall keep any dog, cat or other animal in the city in an
unsanitary place or condition or in a manner resulting in objectionable odors
or in such a way as to constitute a nuisance or disturbance by reason of
barking, howling, fighting or other noise or in such a way as to permit the
animal to annoy, injure or endanger any person or property. Every structure in
which animals are kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition
and free of all rodents, vermin and objectionable odors. Manure shall be
removed with sufficient frequency to avoid nuisance from odors or from the
breeding of flies, at least once each month, from October 1 to May 1 of each
year, and once every two weeks at other times.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to any other remedies that may be available to the city,
including the right to maintain an action in any court of record for the
prevention, restraining, abatement or enjoining of any public nuisance, the
city may enforce the terms of this chapter by criminal prosecution, for which
the following penalties shall apply upon conviction:
   (A)   First offense within 12 month period. Any person convicted of
violating any provision of this chapter for the first time within the previous
12 months shall be fined by the Court in an amount not to exceed $200, and/or
in addition to the payment of restitution and the performance of community
service as deemed necessary by the Court.
   (B)   Second or subsequent offense within 12 month period. Any person
convicted of violating any provision of this chapter for a second or greater
time within the previous 12 months shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$700 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of
prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 878, passed 6-14-99)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Rules and regulations governing city owned property
Regulation of Parks
   
93.10   Definitions
   
93.11   Park operation policy
   
93.12   General prohibitions on park property
   
93.13   Sanitation regulations
   
93.14   Traffic regulations
   
93.15   Specific recreational activities regulated
   
93.16   Camping regulations
   
93.17   Prohibited behavior in parks
   
93.18   Merchandising prohibited
   
93.19   Liquor
   
93.20   Enforcement
Regulation of Boating, Docks and Public Docking Areas on Lake Okabena
   
93.30   Application of regulations
   
93.31   Mufflers, lights required
   
93.32   Speed and operation of motorboats
   
93.33   Prohibited operation in certain areas
   
93.34   Right-of-way
   
93.35   Channels; water skiing and surfboarding
   
93.36   Operation by certain persons prohibited
   
93.37   Duties of operator in case of emergency
   
93.38   Depositing refuse in lake prohibited
   
93.39   Parking regulations at docking areas
   
93.40   Docks
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING CITY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Council may from time to time, by Council action establish
prohibited activities, uses and practices in or on any park, playground,
recreation area or other city owned property.
   (B)   The prohibited activities, uses and practices shall be posted any
park, playground, recreation area or other city owned property in such manner
as the Council shall direct.
   (C)   Any activity, use or practice conducted or performed in or on any
park, playground, recreation area or other city owned property in violation of
the prohibition placed thereon shall be a public nuisance.
('69 Code, § 6.33) (Ord. 437, eff. 9-3-69)
Penalty, see § 10.99
REGULATION OF PARKS
§ 93.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK. Any open or enclosed space, area or facility wherever located which is
owned, operated or controlled by the city or located within the city but owned,
operated or controlled by any other political or governmental subdivision which
space is reserved, designated or used for or as a playground, picnic area,
school ground, beach, park, arena, concession, playing field or court,
structure or building and devoted, designated or intended for active or passive
recreation including all parking lots, paths or roadways appurtenant to or used
therewith.
   PERSON. Any person, firm partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization of any kind.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal drawn, or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size, kind or
description and all snowmobiles. Exception is made for baby carriages and
vehicles in the service of the city parks.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 1)
§ 93.11 PARK OPERATION POLICY.
   (A)   Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, parks shall be open to
the public every day of the year during designated hours. The opening and
closing hours for each individual park may be posted therein for public
information.
   (B)   A permit shall be obtained from the appropriate designated
representative of the city before participating in any of the following park
activities: carnivals, community celebrations, political gatherings, activity
contests including those requesting exclusive use of charging admission; and
exhibitions either as a stage production or otherwise.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.12 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   No person in any park shall:
   (A)   Disfiguration and removal. Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with or displace or remove any buildings, bridges, tables benches,
fireplaces, railings, paving or paving material, water lines or other public
utilities or parts or appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards whether
temporary or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers, or
other structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
   (B)   Restrooms and washrooms. Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms
and washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of four
years shall use the restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
   (C)   Removal of natural resources. Dig or remove any beach sand, whether
submerged or not, or any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants, down
timber or other wood or materials, or make any excavation by tool, equipment,
blazing, or other means or agency.
   (D)   Erection of structure. Construct or erect any building or structure of
whatsoever kind, whether permanent or temporary in character, or run or string
any public service utility into, upon or across such lands, except on special
written permit issued hereunder.
   (E)   Throwing. Throw or cast any stone or other missile carelessly or
needlessly in disregard of the rights or the safety of others, or in a manner
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
   (F)   Walking on grass. Go on foot or otherwise upon the grass or turf of
any park where any prohibitory sign is posted.
   (G)   Injury and removal. Damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree
or plant or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seed of any tree or plant.
A person shall not dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or in any other way
injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area.
   (H)   Climbing trees, etc. Climb any tree or walk, stand or sit upon
monuments, vases, fountains, railing, fences or upon any other property not
designated or customarily used for such purposes.
   (I)   Hunting. Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, shoot, or
throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird, nor shall he remove or have in
his possession the young of any wild animal, or the eggs or nest, or young of
any reptile or bird; nor shall he collect, remove, have in his possession, give
away, sell or offer to sell, or buy or offer to buy, or accept as a gift, any
specimen alive or dead.
   (J)   Feeding. Give or offer, or attempt to give to any animal or bird any
tobacco, alcohol or other known noxious substances.
   (K)   Gambling, drugs and other activities. Gambling; use or possession of
drugs as defined by M.S. Chapter 152 and successor statutes, the possession of
which is a violation of M.S. § 152.09 and successor statutes; or disorderly
conduct is prohibited.
   (L)   Play apparatus. Use or caused to be used any play apparatus in an
unsafe manner or for a purpose or activity for which the apparatus is not
specifically designed.
   (M)   Supervision. Allow small children to use playground apparatus while
unsupervised by an adult.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.13 SANITATION REGULATIONS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Throw, discard or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the waters
of any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay or other body of water in or adjacent
to any park or any tributary, stream, storm sewer, or drain flowing into such
waters, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which will or may
result in the pollution of said waters.
   (B)   Have brought in or shall dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken
glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt rubbish, waste garbage or refuse or
other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or
contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof; but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles
are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of
elsewhere.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.14 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   State motor vehicles laws apply. Fail to comply with all applicable
provisions of the state motor vehicles traffic laws in regard to equipment and
operation of vehicles together with such regulations as are contained in this
chapter and other ordinances.
   (B)   Traffic signs. Fail to comply with all traffic signs indicating speed,
direction, caution, stopping, or parking and all other posted for proper
control and to safeguard life and property.
   (C)   Speed of vehicles. Ride or drive a vehicle at a rate of speed
exceeding ten miles per hour, except upon such designated roads, as posted.
   (D)   Operation confined to roads. No person, except Park Department
employees or authorized agents of the city, shall drive or operate a motor
vehicle in any park except on roads as designated parking areas or such other
areas that may be posted.
   (E)   Parking.
      (1)   Designated areas. Except for sponsored and authorized car shows,
park a vehicle in other than an established or designated parking area, and
such use shall be in accordance with the posted directions thereat and with the
instruction of any attendant who may be present.
      (2)   Night parking. Leave a vehicle standing or parked at night without
lights clearly visible for at least 50 feet from both front and rear on any
driveway or roadway area except legally established parking areas.
      (3)   Emergency procedure. Fail to immediately notify an attendant of an
emergency in the nature of a breakdown requiring the assistance of a tow truck,
mechanic or other person.
      (4)   Muffler required. Fail to use a muffler adequate to deaden the
sound of the engine in a motor vehicle.
   (F)   Bicycles.
      (1)   Confined to roads. Ride a bicycle on other than a paved vehicular
road or path designated for that purpose. A bicyclist shall be permitted to
wheel or push a bicycle by hand over any grassy area or wooded trail or on any
paved area reserved for pedestrian use.
      (2)   Operation. Ride a bicycle upon a paved road or path other than as
near to the right side of the roadway or path as practicable, and bicycles
shall be kept in single file when two or more are operating as a group.
Bicyclists shall at all timed operate their machines with reasonable regard to
the safety of others, signal all turns, pass to the right of any vehicle they
are overtaking, and pass to the right of any vehicles they may be meeting.
      (3)   Rider prohibited. Operate a bicycle carrying more persons at one
time than the number for which it is designated and equipped.
      (4)   Designated racks. Leave a bicycle in a place other than a bicycle
rack when such is provided and there is a space available.
      (5)   Immobile. Leave a bicycle lying on the ground or paving or set
against trees, or in any place or position where other persons may trip over or
be injured by it.
      (6)   Night operation. Ride a bicycle on any road between 30 minutes
after sunset to 30 minutes before sunrise without an attached lamp on the front
which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the
Minnesota Department of Highways which is visible from all distances from 50
feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.15 SPECIFIC RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES REGULATED.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Bathing and swimming. 
      (1)   Park shelters. Dress or undress on any beach, or in any vehicle,
toilet, or other place, except in such bathing houses or structures as may be
provided for that purposes.
      (2)   Clothing. Enter the water or onto public bathing beach unless
clothed.
      (3)   Unsafe conduct. Conduct himself upon any public beach or in the
water in such a manner as to jeopardize the safety or health of himself and
others.
   (B)   Boating.
      (1)   Public docks. Use the public docks for dockage or other purposes,
unless appropriately signed for such use.
      (2)   Operation of boats. Navigate, direct, or handle any boat in such a
manner as to annoy or frighten or endanger others unreasonably in or around
swimming beaches.
   (C)   Hunting and firearms. Hunt, trap or pursue wild life at any time. No
person shall use, carry, or possess firearms of any description, or air rifles,
spring guns, bow and arrows, slings or any other form of weapon potentially
inimical to wild life and dangerous to human safety, or any instrument that can
be loaded with a fire blank cartridges, or any kind of trapping device.
Shooting into park areas from beyond park boundaries is forbidden.
   (D)   Horseback riding and domestic animals. Ride a horse or other animal
except on designated trails or paths or allow any animal to unattended or
without physical restraint in a public park. No domestic animals of any
description shall be allowed within a recreational area unless on an adequate
leash and accompanied by a person capable of controlling such animal.
   (E)   Picnic areas and use.
      (1)   Regulated. Picnic or lunch in places other than those designated
for that purpose. The City Council or designated representatives shall have the
authority to regulate the activities in such areas when necessary to prevent
congestion and to secure the maximum use for the comfort and convenience of
all. Visitors shall comply with all directions given to achieve this end.
      (2)   Availability. Violate the regulation that use of the individual
fireplaces together with tables and benches follows generally the rule of
"first come, first served," except shelter houses that are reserved by the
Superintendent of Public Works, or his or her designee, for group activities as
set out in division (F) below.
   (F)   Group activities. Schedule group activities such as picnics, sporting
activities, parties or theatrical or entertainment performances, to be held in
park facilities until the representative of said group, association or
organization shall first obtain a permit from the Superintendent of Public
Works, or his or her designee, for such purpose. The Superintendent of Public
Works, or his or her designee, shall grant the application if it appears that
the group, association or organization will not interfere with the general use
of the park or the individual members of the public and if said group,
association or organization meets all other conditions contained in the
application. The application may contain a requirement for an indemnity bond to
protect the city from any liability of any kind or character and to protect
city property from damage. The Superintendent shall require that group
activities requiring extra police protection or other special facilities or
expense to the city shall be provided at the sole expense of the group,
association or organization requesting a permit and may require that the
indemnity bond cover such services.
   (G)   Skating and warming house rules. Do or engage in any of the following
acts within skating rinks on ice in any park, except in the course of winter
sports or organized events held under the supervision of the staff of the city
or its delegates. Racing or playing any games which interfere with the general
use of the skating rink, the use of sleds, toboggans, hockey sticks and pucks.
This section shall not be construed to prohibit the use of hockey rinks by the
city. No person shall smoke or loiter on any skating rink or on the ice in any
park, or within any warming house in any park.
   (H)   Fishing. Fish in any park except in those areas designated for open
fishing by the City Council and the State Department of Natural Resources
regulations. No person shall clean fish or dispose of the remains except at
facilities expressly designated for such purposes in any park.
   (I)   Cutting holes in ice. Cut any hole in the ice of any park waters
larger than 12 inches in diameter, unless said hole shall be completely
enclosed by an ice fishing house or spear fishing house.
   (J)   Parking of fishing houses, boats and trailers. Park any ice fishing
house or spear fishing house or any boat or boat trailer or hoist within any
park or upon the ice of any park waters except upon the written authorization
of the City Clerk.
   (K)   Athletic fields and athletic courts.
      (1)   No person shall play any sport or game except softball on the city
softball field.
      (2)   No person shall play any sport or game except baseball on the city
baseball field.
      (3)   No person shall play any sport or game except tennis on the city
tennis courts.
      (4)   The usage of each tennis court shall be restricted to one hour per
party.
      (5)   No person shall play any sport or game except soccer on the city
soccer fields.
      (6)   Upon written application and on a case-by-case basis, the Park
Board may temporarily lessen the restrictions set forth in divisions (K)(1)
through (5) above and may place other restrictions or make other requirements
as to temporary uses.
      (7)   In regard to ball fields and tennis courts, no person shall drive
or ride a motor vehicle or bicycle upon the playing surface of any ball field
or tennis court.
      (8)   In regard to softball and baseball fields, no bases shall be placed
on the grass of the outfield or infield, and may be placed only on the base
paths as laid out by the Park Department, unless permission has been obtained
from the city’s authorized representative.
      (9)   No alcoholic beverages allowed in or on athletic fields and
athletic courts.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 5) (Am. Ord. 938, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 1059, passed
9-24-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.16 CAMPING REGULATIONS.
   All campers using any public camp ground owned by the city shall be subject
to the following regulations:
   (A)   All motor vehicles and camping rigs must stay on the roads or graveled
spurs provided in said camp grounds.
   (B)   The maximum speed limit in any camp ground shall be ten miles per
hour.
   (C)   No camping shall be permitted within 50 feet of the restrooms,
playgrounds and shelterhouse unless a spur is located close to these areas.
   (D)   Each camping rig may run an electrical extension cord to one
electrical receptacle outlet and said extension cord shall not extend beyond
parking spur immediately adjacent to said electrical outlet.
   (E)   Electrical outlets in the shelter house shall not be used for
extending electricity beyond the shelter house.
   (F)   Water hydrants shall not be connected to camper units except for
drawing water for the purpose of filling the personal water supply tank of any
camper.
   (G)   No person shall dig any holes or trenches of any kind.
   (H)   No person shall cause any building on the camp ground to be defaced or
abused in any way and all restrooms shall be kept clean. All garbage shall be
wrapped and placed in garbage cans.
   (I)   Fires will be allowed only in the fireplaces provided.
   (J)   All campsites shall be kept clean of refuse and debris.
   (K)   All domestic animals of any description shall be kept on a leash at
all times and the leash shall not be longer than ten feet.
   (L)   All picnic tables in the camp shelter shall not be removed from the
shelter. All picnic tables outside the shelter house shall be returned to their
original location after being used.
   (M)   No person shall camp in the camp grounds exceeding five days in
succession without prior authorization of the camp ground attendant or
designated representative. The date of the original registration shall be used
in determining the beginning and the end of the week.
   (N)   Playground equipment shall be used in an orderly manner and shall not
be abused.
   (O)   Only trailer dumping shall be allowed at any trailer dumping station.
   (P)   The use of alcoholic beverages is restricted to the immediate location
of the camp spur.
   (Q)   Discharge of firearms, bows and arrows, slingshots and the like is
prohibited.
   (R)   No person shall enter camp ground between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m. except to drive through once or set-up overnight facilities in a
quiet manner so as not to be a nuisance to other overnight campers. After 10:00
p.m. all unnecessary noise shall cease. Campers shall limit activities so as
not to disturb other campers in the park.
   (S)   No saving of spurs or use of spurs, grills, tables or shelter except
with paid fee or advance reservation.
   (T)   All extra cars, boats or other vehicles shall be parked in visitor
parking areas.
   (U)   Only one camping unit per spur.
   (V)   No vending or peddling of any kind in the campground is permitted.
   (W)   No loitering of any kind in the campground if you do not have a camper
or are not a visitor of a paid camper.
   (X)   No horseback riding in the campground.
   (Y)   When all spurs are full, the campground will be closed to any
additional units.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.17 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR IN PARKS.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Fireworks and explosives. Have in his possession or set off or
otherwise cause to explode or discharge or burn, any firecrackers, torpedo,
rocket, or other fireworks or explosives of inflammable material, or discharge
them or throw them into such area from land or highway adjacent thereto. This
prohibition includes any substance, compound, mixture, or article that in
conjunction with any other substance or compound would be dangerous from any of
the foregoing standpoints.
   (B)   Reservation of facilities. Occupy any seat or bench, or enter into or
loiter or remain in any pavilion or other park structure or section thereof
which may be reserved and designated for the use of the opposite sex. Exception
is made for children under four years of age.
   (C)   Fires. Build or attempt to build a fire except in designated or signed
areas. No person shall drop or throw, or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, tobacco paper, or other inflammable material,
within any park area or on any highway, road or street abutting or continuous
therein.
   (D)   Closed areas. Enter an area posted as "Closed to the Public" nor shall
any person use, or abet the use of any area in violation of posted notices.
   (E)   Loitering and boisterousness. Engage in loud, boisterous, threatening,
abusive, insulting, or indecent language, or engage in any disorderly conduct
or behavior tending to a breach of the public peace.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.18 MERCHANDISING PROHIBITED.
   No person in a park shall:
   (A)   Vending and peddling. Expose or offer for sale any article or thing,
nor shall he or she station or place any stand, cart or vehicle for the
transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing. Exception is here
made as to any licensed concessionaire who has obtained the proper permit and
paid the appropriate fee as established by the City Council.
   (B)   Advertising. Announce, advertise, or call the public attention to any
article or service for sale or hire.
   (C)   Signs. Paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign, placard,
advertisement or inscription whatever, nor shall any person erect or cause to
be erected any sign whatsoever on any public lands or highways or roads
adjacent to a park unless approved by the City Council.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.19 LIQUOR.
   Liquor in the parks is limited to beer and wine coolers in picnic shelters
and open picnic areas only.
(Ord. 938, passed 7-8-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Police officers shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter and may issue citations,
arrest, arrest with warrant, and eject from parks persons acting in violation
of this chapter.
   (B)   Police officers shall have the authority to seize, confiscate and
impound any substance, plant, animal, vehicle or other article which, upon
probable cause, they find to be used or possessed in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   City employees whose duties are being discharged in a public park
shall, in connection with their duties as prescribed by the city, diligently
enforce the provisions of the chapter and, except as limited by the City
Administrator, issue warnings to persons acting in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The city retains the right to require security insurance and/or
security bonds for any event or activity occurring on public property if it is
determined to be necessary for the safety and security of the park guests or
general public. The cost of the above security will be paid by the permit
holder prior to the usage of the park facility.
   (E)   Future usage of park facilities may be revoked for violation of any
section of this chapter. The revocation of an individual's right to use city
parks may not exceed a period of one year. Notice of revocation of right to use
city parks may be given, in writing, by the City Administrator or his or her
designee.
('69 Code, § 6.34, Subd. 10) (Am. Ord. 938, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 986, passed
4-24-06)
REGULATION OF BOATING, DOCKS AND PUBLIC DOCKING AREAS
ON LAKE OKABENA
§ 93.30 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to navigate, operate, dock or anchor any boat,
motorboat, sailboat or watercraft upon Lake Okabena except in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter, which shall apply only to the operation of
boats, motorboats sailboats or watercraft on said lake.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.31 MUFFLERS, LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful to use a boat propelled in whole or in part by gas,
gasoline or naphtha unless the same is provided with a stock factory muffler,
under water exhaust or other modern devices capable of adequately muffling the
sound of the exhaust of the engine. The phrase "adequately muffling" shall mean
that the motor's exhaust at all time be so muffled or suppressed as not to
create excessive or unusual noise in accordance with good outboard motor
practice. The discharge of cooling water through the exhaust of any inboard
engine shall be considered an adequate muffling device. Motorboats may be
operated with cut-outs or mufflers open while actually competing in any race
authorized by the Council. ('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 2)
   (B)   Every boat or watercraft when under way or in use shall carry on board
from sunset to sunrise, one 360 degree stern light which shall be visible for a
distance of two miles. The word "visible" when applied to such lights, shall
mean visible on a dark night with clear atmosphere. Also, one combination red-
and-green bowlight is required. ('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.32 SPEED AND OPERATION OF MOTORBOATS.
   (A)   Every operator of a motorboat or personal watercraft shall, at all
times, navigate the same in a careful and prudent manner and at such rate of
speed and along a course as not to endanger persons or property.
   (B)   It Is unlawful for any person to operate a motorboat or personal
watercraft at a rate of speed greater than will permit him in the exercise of
reasonable care to bring the motorboat to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (C)   It is unlawful to operate a motorboat or personal watercraft in a
careless or reckless manner. Reckless navigation of a motorboat shall include
operating the same in a manner which unnecessarily interferes with the free and
proper use of Lake Okabena for purposes other than boating or unnecessarily
endangers other boats therein, or the persons in them.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.33 PROHIBITED OPERATION IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It is unlawful for any person to run, operate, navigate or direct any boat,
motorboat, sailboat or personal watercraft within 75 feet of the area being
used by persons fishing from a boat, 100 feet of the area designated as public
swimming beaches, 150 feet of any dredging operation or dredging equipment or
150 feet from shoreline except when entering and leaving the lake or dock. Any
areas designated as public swimming beaches shall be clearly marked with buoys.
Provided, however, that this section shall not apply to boats used for the
protection or instruction of swimmers or emergency boats.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.34 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   When two boats or personal watercraft are approaching each other "head-on"
or nearly so, so as to involve risk of collision, it shall be the duty of each
boat to bear to the right and pass the other boat on its left side. When boats
approach each other obliquely or at right angles, the boat approaching on the
right side has the right-of-way. One boat may overtake another on either side
but must grant right-of-way to the overtaken boat.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.35 CHANNELS; WATER SKIING AND SURFBOARDING.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct any channel and it is unlawful for any person
to swim or dive within any channel. The word "channel" shall mean any city
authorized course. ('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 6)
   (B)   Water skiing, surfboarding and use of a personal watercraft except for
loading and unloading are prohibited in a primary harbor, channel or any area
prohibited hereby to the operation of a boat. The phrase "primary harbor" shall
mean any city authorized boat unloading and loading area. ('69 Code, § 6.32,
Subd. 7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.36 OPERATION BY CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person who is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, narcotics or barbiturates to operate, propel or be in actual physical
control of any boat or personal watercraft. It is unlawful for the owner or any
person having control of a boat or personal watercraft to knowingly authorize
or permit the same to be propelled or operated by a person who is under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotics or barbiturates.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.37 DUTIES OF OPERATOR IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   The operator of any boat involved in an accident resulting in injury to any
person or in damage to property shall immediately stop such boat at the scene
of such accident and shall give his name, address, full identification of his
boat and the name and address of the owner, to the other involved persons and
shall render to any person injured in such an accident all necessary aid and
shall report such accident to the nearest and most convenient law enforcement
agency or officer.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.38 DEPOSITING REFUSE IN LAKE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit any refuse or waste by any means
into or upon the water of Lake Okabena.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.39 PARKING REGULATIONS AT DOCKING AREAS.
   No person shall leave or park an unattended car, truck or trailer, at public
docking areas, which will cause inconvenience or distress to others using such
facilities.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.40 DOCKS.
   General regulation pertaining to all docks on Lake Okabena.
   (A)   All docks. It is unlawful to have docks extending more than 100 feet
from shore. All docks shall be removed no later than October 15 of each year.
No dock shall be installed before April 15, or before all ice is out of the
lake each spring, whichever is later.
   (B)   Private docks on public property.
      (1)   Permit required. No person shall construct, install, or maintain a
dock, wharf, boat lift, or similar structure on public property or upon public
waters abutting public property without first obtaining a permit for such
apparatus from the city.
      (2)   Application. An application for a permit shall be submitted in
writing to the City Clerk on a form prescribed by the city. The application
must be accompanied by the required permit fee which shall be set from time to
time by the City Council. The application shall also include proof of liability
insurance as required by this section.
      (3)   Term. Permits shall issue on an annual basis and shall expire on
December 31 of each year. All docks shall be subject to an annual inspection by
the city and if a dock does not meet with the minimum criteria established by
the city, it shall immediately be brought into compliance by the permit holder
or the permit shall be revoked.
      (4)   Conditions and restrictions. The permit holder must at all times
during the period of the permit maintain in force liability insurance naming
the city as a co-insured in a minimum amount of $1,000,000. The permit holder
must notify the city immediately if the insurance is canceled or lapses for any
reason. Failure to maintain such insurance shall result in automatic revocation
of the permit. The dock shall be posted with a sign both in written English and
Universal symbols indicating NO SWIMMING AND NO DIVING. Signs must be acquired
through the city and sign placement must be approved by a duly designated city
representative. The permit holder shall maintain the dock in good repair during
the term of the permit. The permit holder shall also agree in writing, to
indemnify the city from any liability for injuries to persons or property which
may arise from the use of the dock.
      (5)   Removal of dock if permit violated. Notwithstanding any other
penalties herein, in the event any person, including a permit holder, refuses
to remove a dock or other personal property from the lake or public right-of-
way, then upon failure to comply following written notice to the owner, the
city shall be entitled to remove the offending property, storing, and selling
same in accordance with state law. In the event the city suffers a cost of
storage and/or sale which is not recovered from the sale, the city shall be
entitled to maintain a cause of action against the owner of the dock and/or
property to recover the remaining balance.
('69 Code, § 6.32, Subd. 11) (Am. Ord. 755, passed 5-29-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Obstructions, fires, and dumping in streets
   
94.015   Snow and ice on public sidewalks
   
94.02   Street openings or excavations
   
94.03   Construction and reconstruction provisions
   
94.04   Numbering of buildings
Special Assessment Policy
   
94.15   Initiation of public improvements projects
   
94.16   Assessment policies applicable to all types of improvements;
improvement costs
   
94.17   Assessment units
   
94.18   Standards and procedures
   
94.19   Surface improvements
   
94.20   Subsurface improvements
   
94.21   Drainage improvements
   
94.22   Downtown parking district
   
94.23   Deletions and deferrals
   
94.24   Reassessment, supplemental assessment
   
94.25   Partial prepayment of assessments
   
Appendix:   Downtown Parking District Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OBSTRUCTIONS, FIRES, AND DUMPING IN STREETS.
   (A)   Obstructions. No person shall place or deposit any fence or other
obstruction upon any street without first having obtained a written permit to
do so from the City Clerk, and then only in compliance in all respects with the
terms and conditions of such permit, and taking precautionary measures for the
protection of the public.
   (B)   Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a roadway.
   (C)   Dumping in streets. It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any street or any other public place any nails, dirt, glass, tin
cans, metal scraps, garbage, shreds or rubbish, snow, or to empty any water
containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. The city may order
cleaning, grading, or other required maintenance if the material is not
promptly removed upon written and/or verbal notice to the resident of the
abutting property. The city shall keep record of the cost of such maintenance
and shall assign the cost for said maintenance against the abutting property.
Said cost shall be billed to the abutting property owner and if the cost is not
paid the cost shall be certified with the County Auditor for collection as
other special assessments are certified and collected. Snow from public
sidewalks may be placed in the street as close to the curb as possible upon
approval from the Department of Public Works, provided that there is no
accessible storage area adjacent to the sidewalk.
('69 Code, § 5.08) (Am. Ord. 708, passed 10-14-86)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Trees blocking street or sidewalk, see §
95.07
§ 94.015 ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Ice and snow a nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance, and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within 12 hours
after such snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
   (B)   City to remove snow and ice. The city may cause to be removed from all
public sidewalks, beginning 24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to fall, all
snow and ice which may be discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the
cost of such removal and the private property adjacent to which such
accumulations were found and removed.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. The City Clerk shall, upon direction
of the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for in division (B),
extend the cost of such removal of snow or ice as a special assessment against
the lots or parcels of ground abutting on walks which were cleared, and such
special assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes to the County
Auditor, be certified for collection as other special assessments are certified
and collected.
('69 Code, § 5.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.02 STREET OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except a city employee acting within the
course and scope of his employment or a contractor acting within the course and
scope of a contract with the city, to make any excavation, opening or tunnel
in, over, across or upon a street or other public property without first having
obtained a written permit from the City Engineer as herein provided.
   (A)   Application. Application for a permit to make a street excavation
shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address of the
applicant, the place, purpose and size of the excavation, and such other
information as may be necessary or desirable to facilitate the investigation
hereinafter provided for, and shall be filed with the City Engineer.
   (B)   Investigation. Upon receipt of such application, the City Engineer
shall cause such investigation to be made by himself or the Department of
Public Works as may be necessary to determine estimated cost of repair, such as
filling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the conditions as to time
of commencement of work, manner of procedure and time limitation upon such
excavation. The foregoing estimated costs shall include permanent and temporary
repairs due to weather or other conditions, and the cost of such investigation
shall be included in such estimate.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. The City Engineer shall issue such permit after
completion of such investigation, payment by the applicant in advance of all
estimated costs as aforesaid, agreement by the applicant to the conditions of
time and manner as aforesaid, and agreement by the applicant to pay all actual
cost of repairs over and above such estimate, including cost of such
investigation.
   (D)   Repairs. All temporary and permanent repairs, including filling,
compacting, and resurfacing shall be made, or contracted for, by the city in a
manner prescribed by the City Engineer, and an accurate account of costs
thereof shall be kept.
   (E)   Cost adjustment. Within 60 days following completion of such permanent
repairs the City Engineer shall determine actual costs of repairs, including
cost of investigation, and prepare and furnish to such permit holder an
itemized statement thereof and claim additional payment from, or make refund
to, the permit holder, as the case may be.
('69 Code, § 5.07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.03 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Methods of procedure.
      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance.
      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the State
Local Improvement Code, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429, as the same may from time
to time be amended.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct a sidewalk, curb and
gutter, driveway, or roadway surfacing in any street or other public property
in the city without a permit in writing from the City Engineer. Application for
such permit shall be made on forms approved and provided by the city and shall
sufficiently describe the contemplated improvements, the contemplated date of
beginning of work, and the length of time required to complete the same,
provided that no permit shall be required for any such improvement ordered
installed by the Council. All applications shall be referred to the City
Engineer and no permit shall be issued until approval has been received from
such City Engineer. All such applications shall contain an agreement by the
applicant to be bound by this section and plans and specifications consistent
with the provisions of this section and good engineering practices shall also
accompany the application. A permit from the city shall not relieve the holder
from damages to the person or property of another caused by such work.
   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter improvements, including curb
cuts, shall be strictly in accordance with specifications and standards on file
in the office of the City Engineer and open to inspection and copying there.
Such specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by the city,
but shall be uniformly enforced.
   (D)   Inspection. The Council shall designate a suitable and competent
person to perform inspections required herein and such other inspection of such
work as deemed necessary. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the Inspector if
found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the specifications and
standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon the city to
inspect or supervise such work.
('69 Code, § 5.09) (Ord. 538-5, eff. 1-8-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.04 NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The current address of all homes and other buildings occupied for
living purposes and business buildings shall be displayed on the exterior of
the home or business facing the street adjacent to the home or business
building in compliance with this section.
   (B)   Each number of the address attached to the home or business shall be
three inches or greater in size. The numbers shall be of a color that contrasts
to the color of the building to which it is attached. The numbers of the
address shall be in arabic numbers only and roman numerals and numbers in
writing shall be prohibited.
   (C)   All numbers attached to a home or business place shall display the
address of the home or business place and shall be located in a position near
the front door of the building so it may be seen from the street and read
clearly at night with a spotlight or a porch light attached to the building.
   (D)   All persons violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor as defined by state law.
('69 Code, § 2.50) (Ord. 554, eff. 7-1-77)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICY
§ 94.15 INITIATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS PROJECTS.
   Public improvement projects may be initiated by petition of affected
property owners. Such petitions will be received by the Council until the last
day of October of each year. Petitions for public improvements submitted after
that date will be received and acted upon during that year only by special
consent of the Council, or will be received and considered the following year.
Public improvements may also be initiated by the Council when, in its judgment,
such action is required.
(Ord. 540, eff. 10-14-75)
§ 94.16 ASSESSMENT POLICIES APPLICABLE TO ALL TYPES OF IMPROVEMENTS;
IMPROVEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Where an improvement is constructed which is of special benefit to
properties within a definable area, it is the intent of the City Council that
special assessments be levied against the benefitted properties within that
area to the extent that the costs of such project can be deemed to benefit the
properties.
   (B)   All improvement costs shall, whenever possible, be assessed in full
against benefitted property. The city intends to keep the city's share of the
improvement cost to a minimum, and any assessable share of cost against
properties or lands outside city limits shall be collected by either voluntary
negotiated contract or annexation rather than deferred assessment, if possible.
The following general principles shall be used as a basis of the city's
assessment policy:
      (1)   The "project cost" of an improvement shall be deemed to include the
costs of all necessary construction work required to accomplish the
improvement, plus engineering, legal, administrative, financing, right-of-way
and other contingent costs.
      (2)   Where the project cost of an improvement is not entirely
attributable to the need for service to the area served by said improvement, or
where unusual conditions beyond the control of the owners of the property in
the area served by the improvement would result in an inequitable distribution
of special assessments, the city, through the use of other funds, may pay such
"city cost" which, in the opinion of the City Council, represents the excess
cost not directly attributable to the area served.
      (3)   If financial assistance is received from the federal government,
from the state, or from any other source to defray a portion of the costs of a
given improvement, such aid will be used first to reduce the "city cost" of the
improvement. If the financial assistance received is greater than the normal
"city cost" the remainder of the aid will be used to reduce the special
assessments against the benefitting properties, such reductions to be applied
on a pro-rata basis.
      (4)   The "assessable cost" of an improvement shall be defined as being
those costs which, in the opinion of the City Council, are attributable to the
need for service in the area served by the improvement. Said "assessable cost"
shall be equal to the "project cost" of the current project as defined above,
minus "city cost" as defined above, minus other financial assistance credited
as above described.
      (5)   City-owned properties, including municipal building sites, parks
and playgrounds, but not including public streets and alleys, shall be regarded
as being assessable on the same basis as if such property was privately owned.
      (6)   Assessments may be spread over such period of time as the Council
shall approve.
      (7)   In the event the literal application of the provisions outlined
herein would result in inequitable distribution of special assessments or
special assessments exceeding the benefit of the improvement, the City Council
reserves the right to adjust the assessments for an improvement so as to
achieve a more equitable distribution and/or represent the benefit received.
(Ord. 540, eff. 10-14-75)
§ 94.17 ASSESSMENT UNITS.
   Each parcel or lot will be assessed on the basis of its proportionate share
of the total appropriate assessable units affected by the improvement.
Assessable units shall be in terms of "adjusted frontage," "area," or "lot," as
described below.
   (A)   "Adjusted frontage" shall be calculated by the following procedure,
and shall be expressed to the nearest tenth of a foot.
      (1)   For rectangular interior lots the "frontage" shall be equal to the
dimension of the side of the lot abutting the improvement.
      (2)   For rectangular corner lots the "frontage" shall be equal to the
dimension of the smaller of the two sides of the lot abutting the improvement
plus one-half the larger side. Provided, further, that for ornamental street
lighting in a residential area, and for all street resurfacing improvement, the
"frontage" of a rectangular corner lot shall be equal to only the dimension of
the smaller of the two sides of the lot.
      (3)   For irregularly shaped interior lots the "frontage" shall be equal
to the average width of the lot.
      (4)   For irregularly shaped corner lots the "frontage" shall be equal to
the average width of the lot, plus one-half of the average length of the lot.
Provided, further, that for ornamental street lighting in residential areas,
and for all street resurfacing improvements the "frontage" of an irregularly
shaped corner lot shall be equal only to the average width of the lot.
      (5)   For interior lots less than 150 feet in depth, or lots which cannot
be subdivided under existing subdivision regulations, and which abut two
parallel streets, the "frontage" for a given type of surface improvement shall
be calculated on only one side of the lot, using average lot width.
      (6)   For end lots less than 150 feet in depth or lots which can not be
subdivided under existing subdivision regulations, and which abut three
streets, the "frontage" for a given type of surface improvement shall be
calculated on the same basis as if such lot was a corner lot abutting the
improvement on two sides only, using average lot width and depth.
      (7)   For sewer and water improvements adjacent to corner or end lots,
the "adjusted frontage" shall equal the average width (short dimension) of the
lot, regardless of which side abuts the improvement.
      (8)   Because frontage roads along highways or other arterial streets are
deemed to be of benefit to commercial or industrial properties, the entire
costs of any improvement on such frontage roads shall be assessable to the
benefitted properties, even if only those properties on one side of such
frontage roads are benefitted.
   (B)   "Area" shall be defined as the gross area of the parcel or lot which
is benefitted, in terms of square feet. All property within district boundaries
is to be included. District boundaries shall be determined by the Engineer.
   (C)   "Unit" or "lot" shall be defined as when the City Council determines
that the assessable costs would be more equitably distributed on a "unit"
basis, the assessable unit may be the "lot" (i.e. a uniform per lot
assessment), an REC (residential equivalent connection), or other equitable
unit adopted by the Council. Normally, a unit would be one-half acre or one
single-family connection. Multiple-family connections would be 0.75 units per
dwelling unit.
   (D)   Building square footage shall be determined by taking the total first
floor area to the nearest square foot (one square foot).
   (E)   Diagonal parking lineal footage shall be the length of diagonal
parking immediately adjacent to the property assessed to the nearest foot (one
foot), not including yellowed curb "no parking" areas.
   (F)   Parallel parking lineal footage shall be the length of parallel
parking immediately adjacent to the property assessed to the nearest foot (one
foot), not including yellowed "no parking" areas.
   (G)   Off-street parking stalls shall be the equivalent of 10' x 20' stalls.
Partial stalls will not be included. Where more than one row of parking stalls
are provided, the minimum driveway widths in Table 1 below shall be provided.
 
TABLE 1. PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS
Angle of Stall Curb       Stall Minimum  Lot Width Sq. Ft. Lot Width Sq. Ft.
Parking  Width Length Per Depth Driveway 1 Row +1  Per Car 2 Row +1  Per Car
               Car              Width    Driveway          Driveway
Along
curb=    10'   23'        10'   12'      22'       506     32'       368
0°
30°     10'   20'        18'3  11'      29'3"     585     47'6"     475
                          "
45°     10'   14'2"      20'6  13'      33'6"     490     54'       383
                          "
60°     10'   11'6"      21'6  18'      39'6"     455     61'       351
                          "
90°     10'   10'        19'   24'      43'       430     62'       310
 
(Ord. 619, eff. 3-24-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 94.18 STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES.
   The following standards and procedures in §§ 94.19 through 94.22 shall
affect the assessment of any improvement ordered by the Council. For those
projects constructed entirely by a developer, other methods may be used by the
developer if unreasonable inequities do not appear to exist.
(Ord. 540, eff. 10-14-75)
§ 94.19 SURFACE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Surface improvements shall include grading, regrading, base construction and
reconstruction, curb and gutter construction and reconstruction, base surfacing
and resurfacing, surface reconstruction, ornamental street lighting, and
sidewalks. (Ord. 636, eff. 6-22-81)
   (A)   Standards. In all streets, prior to street construction and surfacing
or prior to resurfacing, all utilities and utility service lines (including
sanitary sewers, water lines, gas and electric service) shall be installed to
serve each known or assumed building location. No surface improvements to less
than both sides of a full block of street shall be approved except necessary to
complete the improvement of a block which has previously been partially
completed. Concrete curbing or curb and gutter shall be installed at the same
time as street surfacing, except that where a permanent "rural" street design
is approved by the City Council, curbs will not be required.
      (1)   Arterial streets. Arterial streets shall be of "9 ton" design, of
adequate width to accommodate projected traffic volumes. Arterial streets shall
be resurfaced at or near their expected service age, dependent upon existing
conditions.
      (2)   Collector streets. Collector streets (including commercial and
industrial access streets) shall be of "9 ton" design, and shall normally be 44
feet in width measured between faces of curbs. Wherever feasible, a boulevard
at least five feet in width shall be provided, measured from the street face of
the curb to the street face of the sidewalk. Collector streets shall be
resurfaced at or near their expected service age or at such time as the Council
determines it is necessary to raise the structural value of the streets.
      (3)   Residential streets. Residential streets shall be of "5 ton"
design, 36 feet in width, measured between faces of curbs. Residential streets
shall be resurfaced at or near their expected service age, dependent upon
existing conditions.
      (4)   Alleys. Alleys, in residential areas, shall be of "5 ton" design.
In commercial or industrial service areas, alleys shall be constructed to a "9
ton" design. Alleys shall be resurfaced at or near their expected service age,
dependent upon existing conditions.
      (5)   Ornamental street lighting. Ornamental street lighting, when
installed, shall be installed in accordance with the most recent standards as
established by the Illuminating Engineer's Society.
      (6)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks will be required on both sides of arterial
streets, collector streets, designated school walkway routes, and other
locations as the Council may deem necessary. They shall be five feet in width
unless otherwise approved or ordered by the Council.
   (B)   Assessment formula for surface improvements. The assessments to be
levied against properties within the benefitted areas shall be distributed to
those properties on the basis of the following provisions:
      (1)   The "assessment rate" to be applied against each individual
property shall be equal to the "assessable cost" of the project divided by the
total number of assessable units benefitted by the improvement.
      (2)   The assessable unit to be used for all surface improvements, unless
otherwise specified by the Council, shall be the "adjusted frontage" of the
property.
      (3)   The entire cost of the improvement shall be assessable against
properties within the subdivision served with the exception that in a
residential area, the "city cost" shall be equal to the increased cost for
constructing a street to arterial or collector design standards in lieu of to
residential design standards. Provided, also, that in commercial or industrial
subdivisions, the increased cost of constructing a street to arterial design
standards in lieu of to the collector design standards required to serve such
subdivision will be assumed as "city cost."
      (4)   On municipal state aid improvement projects, assessments shall be
levied against those properties where improvements of the type constructed have
not previously existed. The assessment rates for such improvements shall be
equal to those charged to similar properties on projects which are constructed
under the regular improvement program.
      (5)   Surface, base, curb, and gutter reconstruction.
         (a)   Design life for all streets shall be deemed to be 20 years,
except that the design life for concrete streets functioning primarily as
residential streets shall be deemed to be 30 years.
         (b)   When a street requires reconstruction or regrading before
obtaining its design life, the same percentage of the assessable cost of the
project shall be assessable against benefitted properties as the percentage of
the design life which was obtained.
         (c)   City cost of a reconstruction or regrading project shall include
the cost of reconstructing or regrading the center 24 feet of any street for
which costs of the original construction and grading were assessed against
benefitted property. City cost shall not, however, include any portion of the
cost of alley construction.
(Ord. 636, eff. 6-22-81)
§ 94.20 SUBSURFACE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Subsurface improvements shall include water distribution lines and sanitary
sewer lines.
   (A)   Standards.
      (1)   Subsurface improvements shall be made to serve current and
projected land use. All installations shall conform to the minimum standards
therefor as established by those state and/or federal agencies having
jurisdiction over the proposed installations. All installations shall also
comply, to the maximum extent feasible, to such quasi-official, nationally
recognized, standards as those of the American Insurance Association (formerly
National Board of Fire Underwriters).
      (2)   Service lines to each known or assumed building location shall be
installed in conjunction with the construction of the mains.
   (B)   Assessment formula for subsurface improvements. The assessments to be
levied against properties within an area benefitted by subsurface improvements
shall be distributed to those properties on the basis of trunk assessments,
lateral assessments, and connection charges.
      (1)   Trunk sewers include lift stations, force mains and portions of the
gravity collection system (oversized or overly deep) which are designed as
major collectors serving larger areas. The trunk sewer assessment rate is $800
per acre. Trunk water systems include towers, hydrants, valves and oversizing
necessary for adequate pressure and fire protection. The trunk water rate is
$500 per acre. Trunk rates will be applied to the area benefitted, and are not
normally deferred except as noted in § 94.23. Trunk rates may be revised based
on current ENR indexes, assuming a July, 1975, ENR index of 2248.
      (2)   Lateral benefit is obtained from the branch sewer and water lines
which make the utility available to the property. (If the property is adjacent
to the trunk line, then both trunk and lateral benefit will be obtained from
the pipe.) This rate varies from project to project depending on project
geometry and costs, and is calculated by dividing the assessable lateral cost
(that portion of the project cost not applicable to the trunk system as defined
above) by the total number of assessment units. The assessment unit may be
either adjusted frontage or a unit charge, such as "lot," "REC," or "unit."
      (3)   Lateral assessments will be assessed to all developed parcels
adjacent to the trunk or lateral, except that where area-related unit charges
are used, only that portion of the parcel within 200 feet of the trunk or
lateral will receive lateral assessments. In developed or platted areas
deferments will normally not be given.
      (4)   In undeveloped unplatted areas, lateral assessments for parcels
adjacent to trunk or lateral utilities may be deferred until development by
establishing a special connection charge within a defined district, such charge
to be paid at the time of development or connection. Further, development of
the lateral system within the trunk area will be assessed as separate projects
unless installed by the developer, in which case no added lateral assessment
will be made. Only one trunk assessment will be made.
      (5)   If the improvement is accomplished under the subdivision
regulations of the city, applicable "trunk charges" shall be assessable against
properties within the subdivision. All utility costs shall be the developer's,
with the following exceptions:
         (a)   On water main or sanitary sewer construction within a
subdivision, if the size of mains installed is larger than the size of mains
required to provide complete water service (including fire-fighting potential
as recommended by nationally recognized standards) or sewer service to the
subdivision, the costs for oversizing such mains shall be regarded as "city
cost."
         (b)   On water main or sanitary sewer construction where no point of
connection to existing mains is available within, or at the outside boundary of
the subdivision, the city may levy normal assessments to all intervening
properties benefitted by the required extensions and use the assessments
collected to defray the project costs relating to the intervening properties.
Where such extension beyond
the subdivision boundary is installed and oversized to provide future service
to the areas other than the subdivision, the costs for such extension shall be
equitably distributed between the areas to be served.
('69 Code, § 2.21, Subd. 3 B.)
§ 94.21 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   Drainage improvements shall include all storm sewers, ponding areas,
ditches, groundwater control systems, or other installations for the control of
storm water or groundwater.
   (A)   Standards. Drainage improvements shall be made to serve current and
projected land use. All improvements for carrying water shall provide
protection based on a design frequency of at least five years, or higher if
requested by the engineer or benefitted owners. Storage sites and ponding areas
shall be designed to provide a frequency of protection designated by the
engineer, but in no case shall the design allow damage to permanent structures
at frequencies less than 50 years.
   (B)   Assessment formula. The assessments to be levied against properties
within an area benefitted by subsurface improvements shall be distributed based
on the following provisions:
      (1)   The "assessable unit" to be applied to drainage improvements shall
be "area" expressed in terms of square feet times a land use multiplier.
      (2)   The "assessment rate" to be applied against all properties and each
individual property shall be equal to the "assessable cost" of the project
divided by the total number of assessable units benefitted by the improvement.
Drainage districts shall be established by the engineer along the boundaries of
the area which will ultimately be served by the system.
      (3)   The total number of assessment units shall be computed using the
following table of land use multipliers:
   Land Use   Multiplier
   Regulated Flood Plain   0
   (No occupancy permitted)
   Planned Open Space   0.75
   (Parks, golf courses, cemeteries, etc.)   
   Single-Family Residential   1.00
   Multiple-Dwelling Residential
   and Institutional   1.250
   Commercial and Industrial   1.500
      (4)   Storm sewer costs shall be distributed on the basis of land use at
the time of the project. Provided, however that if the land is vacant and is
located in an otherwise developed area of the city at the time of the project,
the costs shall be distributed on the basis of the existing zoning district.
Provided further, that if the land is being used as agricultural at the time of
the project, or is vacant and is located in an otherwise undeveloped area of
the city at the time of the project, the cost shall be distributed on the basis
of the city's future land use designation. Thereafter if a change in zoning is
requested which would place the property in a more intense land use category,
an accompanying fee may be collected equal to the difference in land use
factors and the fees used to offset the costs of upgrading drainage facilities
to accommodate the increased runoff caused by higher type development. Requests
for rebates due to rezoning resulting in a lower land use multiplier will not
be allowed since the facilities previously assessed were designed based on the
higher need. (Ord. 608, eff. 7-9-79)
      (5)   Where portions of a drainage system are designed for frequencies
greater than the standard requires, the additional cost of such extra capacity
shall be assessed to the area provided extra protection by the increased
capacity.
      (6)   The total assessment for all drainage improvements shall not exceed
$0.03 per square foot for residential property, based on 1975 costs. Other
property shall have total assessment not greater than this limit times the
appropriate multiplier. Total costs in excess of this limit shall be paid from
general municipal funds. Credit shall be given for any drainage assessment of
record. The upper limit may be modified using the Engineering-News-Record (ENR)
index, assuming a July, 1975, ENR index of 2248.
(Ord. 540, eff. 10-14-75)
§ 94.22 DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT.
   Downtown parking assessments shall include the area in the Appendix
generally outlined by First Avenue, Eleventh Street, Seventh Avenue and Ninth
Street and shall include the following costs.
   (A)   Assessable costs.
      (1)   Snow plowing and snow removal of city owned downtown parking lots.
      (2)   Parking meter removal (labor, equipment and materials needed to
remove parking meters).
      (3)   Zoned parking signs installation (minimum six per block).
      (4)   Parking zone enforcement (personnel, necessary materials and
equipment).
      (5)   Paint materials and labor for striping parking stalls.
      (6)   Electricity for lighting of downtown parking lots within downtown
parking district.
      (7)   Surfacing, including necessary seal coating and overlays as
determined necessary by City Engineer to maintain hard surface.
      (8)   Assessment cost including but not limited to City Attorney's and
City Engineer's labor for researching and drawing up assessment procedures.
      (9)   Revenues received by city from issuance of parking tickets shall be
used to defray costs.
   (B)   Assessment formula for downtown parking. The assessments to be levied
against properties within the parking district shall be distributed to those
properties on the basis of square footage of buildings, lineal footage of
parallel and diagonal parking and private off-street parking.
      (1)   The "assessable unit" shall be determined by taking the building
square footage and dividing by 300 square feet (to nearest tenth) and add to
the 40 to 50 degree (interior angle) diagonal parking lineal footage divided by
12.5 feet and add to the 25 to 40 degree (interior angle) diagonal parking
lineal footage divided by 20.0 feet (to nearest tenth) and add to the parallel
parking lineal footage divided by 20.0 feet (to nearest tenth) and subtract
from total the number of off-street parking spaces.
            40 to 50 Degree 25 to 40 Degree         Off St.
Assessable = Bldg. Sq. Ft. + Diag. Prkg. Ft. + Diag. Prkg. Ft. + Par. Prkg. Ft.
- Parking
Units      300 Sq. Ft.   12.5 Ft.      20.0 Ft. 20 Ft.      Spaces
(Ord. 740, eff. 8-28-89)
      (2)   The "assessment rate" to be applied against all properties and each
individual property shall be equal to "assessable cost" divided by the total
number of "assessable units."
      (3)   Credits for off-street parking stalls.
         (a)   A credit of one assessable unit shall be given for each off-
street parking stall available on any property subject to assessment within the
district. Excess credits on a particular property may be applied to other
property owned by the same owner.
         (b)   A credit of one assessable unit shall be given for each off-
street parking stall provided by owners of property within the district, which
stalls are located in parking lots immediately adjacent to (within one block
of) the district.
         (c)   Off-street parking stall credits are given to the legal owner of
property regardless of leased status.
         (d)   An off-street parking stall shall be considered available
provided it is:
            1.   Accessible by automobile without passage over curbs, through
fences, barriers, or locked gates; or is accessible by automobile by passage
through gates electronically and/or parking attendant operated;
            2.   Maintained for the purpose of providing public, customer,
employee, or business vehicle parking;
            3.   Maintained with a gravel or hard surfacing suitable for
automobile parking. A suitable surface shall be considered to consist of a
minimum of the equivalent of six inches of gravel processed for surfacing use.
(Ord. 754, eff. 4-23-90)
   (C)   Exclusions. Church properties and properties devoted to residential
use, including both single- or multi-family dwelling, shall not be subject to
assessment.
(Ord. 619, eff. 3-24-80; Am. Ord. 740, passed 8-28-89; Am. Ord. 754, passed 4-
23-90)
§ 94.23 DELETIONS AND DEFERRALS.
   (A)   If the city installs utility facilities which benefit property which
lies outside the corporate limits, that area and the allocable costs shall be
included in the original public hearing for the improvement. The city may
attempt to negotiate a contract with the property owner of the property lying
outside the city which will provide for payment to the city on the same basis
as if the property were within the city and to be assessed for the improvement
as a prepayment upon completion of the project. If such a contract cannot be
executed, the city will assume the temporary responsibility for payment of the
cost allocable to the property lying outside the city limits. In that event the
original principal amount of the assessment, if it had been assessed, plus
accumulated interest, shall be increased annually by a percentage to be
determined by Council up to a maximum of 15 years for which no payment is made.
At the time of annexation of the property to the city, a subsequent public
hearing may be held for that property and assessment roll prepared, adopted and
certified to the County Auditor, payable at the same rate and terms except for
the total amount, as were applicable to other property owners included in the
original assessment. The city shall reserve the right to delay the assessment
of benefit for facilities previously installed, and to make such assessment at
the same time it causes to be constructed other public improvements on the
property following its annexation. When property lies outside the city limits,
no physical connection to the city's utility or drainage system will be
permitted until a utility agreement and contract, including satisfaction of
costs or assessments, is executed.
   (B)   Upon adoption of an assessment for an improvement, the City Council
may establish an assessment against undeveloped property as being in a deferred
principal payment status. Such status is established by deferring the
collection of the principal of that assessment until development of the
property occurs or until the assessment is otherwise payable. The city shall
assess the annual interest on the unpaid principal balance at the rate
established in the resolution adopting the assessment for the improvement and
such interest shall be certified annually for collection. Except as hereinafter
provided, such deferred principal payment status shall not extend beyond the
date when certification of the final assessment installment to the County
Auditor is to occur as established in the resolution adopting the assessment
for the improvement.
      (1)   After development is deemed to have occurred as to property which
has an assessment in deferred principal payment status, the city shall, by
certified mail, notify the property owner(s) thereof of the date of the
certification of the installment payable in the next year and of the provisions
of this division (1) and of divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section. Not
less than 30 days prior to certification of the installment payable in the next
year on such assessment, the property owner(s) may submit a written request for
the adoption of a principal and interest payback schedule as provided for in
division (B)(4) of this section. If no written request is received within the
above time period, the unpaid principal balance shall be payable in equal
annual principal installments extending over the number of years remaining in
the original assessment period. If the original assessment period has expired,
the entire unpaid principal balance and interest shall be certified for
collection in the next and final installment.
      (2)   Not less than 60 days prior to certification of the final
installment of an assessment, the owner(s) of the property whose assessment is
in deferred principal payment status shall be notified by certified mail of the
date of the certification of the final installment and shall be notified of the
provisions of this division and of divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), and (B)(6) of this
section. Not less than 30 days prior to certification of the final installment
of such assessment, the property owner(s) may submit a written request that the
deferred principal payment status be extended pursuant to division (B)(3) of
this section or that the city adopt a principal and interest payback schedule
for the assessment as provided in division (B)(4) of this section. If no
written request is received within the above time period, the entire unpaid
principal balance and interest shall be certified for collection in that final
installment.
      (3)   If the owner(s) of property which has an assessment in deferred
principal payment status, so requests, the City Council may extend and continue
the deferred principal payment status for no more than an additional five years
at the original assessment interest rate, at which time, subject to the overall
maximum limitations of M.S. § 429.061(2), the owner(s) may again request a
further extension.
      (4)   If an owner(s) of property which has an assessment in deferred
principal payment status so requests, the City Council may adopt a principal
and interest payback schedule at the original assessment interest rate for a
period no longer than the original assessment period.
      (5)   In the event tax forfeited land is repurchased pursuant to M.S. §
282.241, any special assessment that would have had a deferred principal
payment status terminate between the time of forfeiture and the date of
repurchase shall have such status extended to the assessment certification date
of the year of repurchase unless such repurchase is made within 60 days of
certification, in which case the status shall be extended to the certification
date of the following year.
      (6)   This division (B) is subject to the maximum assessment period set
forth in M.S. § 429.061(2).
(Ord. 754, eff. 4-23-90)
   (C)   The city shall reserve the right to delete land within the assessable
area from the assessment rolls if, in the opinion of the city, the land cannot
be developed and/or the utility system does not provide immediate benefit. No
development of that property shall be permitted nor shall any physical
connection to the city's utility or drainage facilities be made by any
development on that property unless and until an assessment (or connection fee)
is adopted and certified for collection. The city will assume the temporary
responsibility for payment of the cost allocable to the property. The original
principal amount of the assessment, if it had been assessed, plus accumulated
interest, shall be increased annually by a percentage to be determined by
Council up to a maximum of 15 years for which no payment is made. A subsequent
public hearing may be held for that property and an assessment roll prepared,
same rate and terms, except for the total amount, as were applicable to other
property owners included in the original assessment.
   (D)   For purposes of this division, development shall be deemed to have
occurred as follows:
      (1)   At the time a final plat is recorded in the office of the Nobles
County Recorder following approval by the city pursuant to city code, § 154.23,
all land included in the plat shall be deemed developed, except those lots or
blocks thereof which by authority of a variance to § 154.40 of the city code
are not to be improved or constructed upon until a later date.
      (2)   At the time a subdivider makes and installs the improvements
required for issuance of a building permit on such lots and blocks allowed to
be temporarily unimproved by variance from § 154.40, those lots and blocks
shall be deemed developed.
      (3)   At the time a building permit is issued, any land included in or
used in connection with the site plan approved when the permit was issued shall
be deemed developed, together with any land rendered undevelopable because of
that site plan.
      (4)   At the time a building permit is issued for a parcel of land
consisting of less than one acre, that parcel of land shall be deemed developed
if issuance of the permit:
         (a)   Follows approval by the city of a minor subdivision pursuant to
§ 154.40 for that parcel of land, or for a parcel of land of which it is a
part, or
         (b)   Follows conveyance of that parcel of land to the applicant for
the permit.
(Ord. 658, eff. 6-28-82; Am. Ord. 726, passed 8-22-88; Am. Ord. 754, passed 4-
23-90)
§ 94.24 REASSESSMENT, SUPPLEMENTAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Reassessment, tax forfeited land. Special assessments canceled because
of tax forfeiture of land are to be reassessed in accordance with M.S. §
429.071(4), and as described below.
      (1)   The amount to be reassessed to a parcel or tract of land shall be
equal to that parcel's or tract's proportional share of the original assessment
less all principal amounts received by the city for said assessment prior to
cancellation and less all proceeds apportioned to the city to discharge said
assessment pursuant to M.S. § 282.08.
      (2)   Upon return of tax forfeited land to private ownership,
reassessment procedures shall be initiated as to any and all developed parcels
or tracts of land therein. Undeveloped land returned to private ownership shall
not be immediately reassessed.
      (3)   If development later occurs on tax forfeited land returned to
private ownership, reassessment procedures shall then be initiated as to such
parcels or tracts of land therein.
   (B)   Development defined. For the purposes of this division, development
shall be deemed to have occurred as defined in § 94.23(D).
(Ord. 754, passed 4-23-90)
§ 94.25 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 429.061, subd. 3, any person may partially prepay any
special assessment levied pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429 so long as the
prepayment occurs prior to the annual certification of the assessment to the
County Auditor. The minimum partial prepayment which will be accepted is $50.
Partial prepayments shall be applied first to any accrued interest and second
to reduce principal outstanding.
(Ord. 952, passed 10-13-03)
APPENDIX: DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT MAP
[Click_here_to_view_map.]
CHAPTER 95: TREES
Section
Planting and Maintenance of Trees on Public Property
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Establishment, duties of City Tree Advisory Board
   
95.03   Street tree species to be planted
   
95.04   Spacing and location of street trees
   
95.05   Public tree care
   
95.06   Permit to plant, remove and trim trees
   
95.07   Emergency tree removal
   
95.08   Tree topping
   
95.09   Interference with City Forester
Dutch Elm Disease
   
95.20   Declaration of policy
   
95.21   Dutch Elm Disease Program
   
95.22   Public nuisance declared
   
95.23   Abatement procedures
   
95.24   Collection of assessment
   
95.25   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
95.26   Interfering with City Forester prohibited
   
95.27   Position of City Forester created
PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
boulevards within the city.
   TREE SIZES.
      SMALL TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 30 feet.
      MEDIUM TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 50 feet.
      LARGE TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of over 50
feet.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
§ 95.02 ESTABLISHMENT, DUTIES OF CITY TREE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall appoint a standing
subcommittee from its membership or from other residents of the city to serve
as a City Tree Advisory Board. The Park and Recreation Advisory Board shall
prescribe the number of members, term of office, and subsidiary
responsibilities not defined by ordinance for the City Tree Advisory Board.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Tree Advisory Board to
assist the City Forester in the development and administration of a written
plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs, in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. The plan shall be presented to the Council, and following the review and
approval by the Council shall constitute the official comprehensive City Tree
Plan. The Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming
within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
§ 95.03 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   No species may be planted on public property within the city without the
prior written permission of the City Forester. The City Forester shall review
all requests for planting to assure that the species are appropriate.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
§ 95.04 SPACING AND LOCATION OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with tree
species size classes provided in this chapter, and no trees may be planted
closer together than as follows: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet;
and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by
the City Forester. No coniferous or fruit bearing type trees shall be allowed
in street boulevards.
   (B)   Location. The location of street trees will be determined by the City
Forester based on tree species size classes listed in division (A), location of
current and projected utilities, and dimensions of the boulevard area. No trees
may be planted closer to any curb than the following: small trees four feet;
medium and large trees, five feet. No tree(s) may be planted closer than three
feet to any sidewalk. In commercial and industrial districts where physical
conditions preclude the application of these standards, alternative tree
planting methods may be approved by the City Engineer and City Forester.
   (C)   Corners, fire hydrants and driveways. On any corner lot, no foliage,
fence, sign or other structure shall extend or be erected between a height of
two and one-half feet and eight feet above the elevation of the established
grade at the intersection of the two street lines on that part of the lot which
is bounded by the street lines of the two intersected streets and a line
connecting two points of the street lines 25 feet from their point of
intersection. No street tree shall be planted closer than 15 feet to any fire
hydrant, nor five feet from any driveway.
   (D)   Utilities. No street trees may be planted under, or within ten level
feet of, any overhead utility wire; or over or within ten lateral feet of any
underground water line, sanitary sewer line, storm sewer line, or other utility
buried greater than five feet deep; or over or within five lateral feet of any
underground utility buried less than five feet deep.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   Care of street trees. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares, and public grounds as may be necessary to
insure the public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of
such public grounds. No other planting may be done without consent of the City
Forester.
   (B)   Removal of certain trees. The City Forester may remove or cause or
order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines, or other public improvement, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
   (C)   Trees on private property. The City Forester shall have the authority
to order the trimming, treatment, and removal of trees, shrubs or plants upon
private property when such action is necessary to public safety or to prevent
the spread of disease or insects to trees, shrubs, or plants located on public
property. Any tree or shrub situated upon private property, but so situated as
to extend its branches over the improved portion of a public street or highway
easement, shall be so trimmed by the owner of the real property upon which the
same is located, so that there is a clear height of at least eight feet over
that portion of such easement that is used for vehicular traffic and over that
portion of such easement used for pedestrian travel; and such persons shall
remove the dead or diseased branches or stubs of trees which are or may become
hazardous to the public use of such easement.
      (1)   All orders to trim, remove, or treat trees, shrubs, or plants given
pursuant to this section, shall be in writing and shall be served in person or
by first class mail upon the owner of the property where such trees, shrubs, or
plants are located. Such orders shall afford the owner of the property not less
than 14 days from the date of the mailing of such notice to comply with such
order. It shall be unlawful for any owner of property receiving such an order
to fail to comply with the order in the time specified.
      (2)   If the required action is not taken by the property owner within
the specified time, the city may cause the trees, shrubs, or plants concerned
to be trimmed, removed, or treated, with the costs being borne by the property
owner. If not voluntarily paid to the city by such owner, the costs of such
trimming, removal, or treatment may be recovered by the city by special
assessment upon the property.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06 PERMIT TO PLANT, REMOVE AND TRIM TREES.
   (A)   No person shall plant or remove any trees on public property without
first procuring a written permit from the City Forester, nor shall the
authority conferred by such a permit be exceed.
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to trim park trees except those expressly
authorized by the City Forester. No person shall be allowed to trim street
trees where the branches are in excess of three inches in diameter without
first procuring a written permit from the City Forester, nor shall the
authority conferred by such permit be exceeded.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.07 EMERGENCY TREE REMOVAL.
   No tree or portions thereof on private property shall be allowed to block a
public sidewalk or street. The city shall provide for the immediate removal of
the tree(s) with such cost to be paid by the property owner, and may be
recovered by the city by special assessment upon the property.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.08 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be an unlawful practice for any person, firm, or city department to
top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property without
authorization from the City Forester. Topping is defined as the severe cutting
back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter with the tree's
crown, to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the
tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under
utility wires or obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this section at the determination of the City Forester.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.09 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY FORESTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
City Forester, or any of his/her agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 803, passed 12-12-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
DUTCH ELM DISEASE
§ 95.20 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The city has determined that the health of the elm trees is threatened by a
fatal disease known as Dutch Elm disease. It has further determined that the
loss of elm trees growing upon public and private property would substantially
depreciate that value of property and impair the safety, good order, general
welfare and convenience of the public. It is declared to be the intent of the
city to control and prevent the spread of this disease and this section is
intended for that purpose.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 1)
§ 95.21 DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   It is the intention of the city to conduct a program of plant pest control
pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 18.022. This program is directed
specifically at the control and elimination of Dutch Elm disease fungus and elm
bark beetles and is undertaken at the recommendation of the Commissioner of
Agriculture. The City Forester, hereinafter provided for, shall act as
coordinator between the Commissioner of Agriculture and the city in the conduct
on the program.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 2)
§ 95.22 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   The following things are public nuisances whenever they are found within the
city:
   (A)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any degree
with Dutch Elm Disease fungus, Ceratocystis ulmi (Buisman) Mureau, or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistriatus (Eich.) or
Hylnrogopinus rufipes (marsh.)
   (B)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 3)
§ 95.23 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Abatement. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance
as herein defined to remain on any premises owned, leased, occupied, or
controlled by him. Such nuisance may be abated in the manner prescribed by this
section. ('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 4)
   (B)   Inspection and investigation.
      (1)   The City Forester, his agents or employees, shall inspect all
premises and places within the city as often as practicable to determine
whether any condition described herein exists thereon. They shall investigate
and report incidents of infestation of Dutch Elm fungus or elm bark beetles to
the Council.
      (2)   The City Forester, his agents or employees, may enter upon private
premises at any reasonable time for the purpose of carrying out any of the
duties assigned to them hereunder.
      (3)   The City Forester, his agents or employees, upon finding conditions
indicating Dutch Elm infestation, immediately shall take and send appropriate
specimens or samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture (Bureau of Plant
Industry) State of Minnesota, for analysis, or take such other steps for
diagnosis as may be recommended by the Commissioner of Agriculture. No action
to remove infected trees nor wood shall be taken until positive diagnosis of
the disease has been made.
      (4)   Within five days of receipt of the diagnosis, the owner, lessee,
occupant or person in control of the property from which the specimen was
obtained shall be notified of the result by registered mail.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 5)
   (C)   Abatement of Dutch Elm Disease nuisance. In abating the nuisances
defined herein, the City Forester, his agents or employees, shall cause the
infected tree or wood to be removed and burned or otherwise effectively treated
so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of Dutch Elm
disease fungus and elm bark beetles. Such abatement procedures shall be carried
out in accordance with the current technical and expert methods and plans as
may be designed by the Commissioner of Agriculture of the State of Minnesota.
The city shall establish specifications for tree removal and disposal methods
consistent therewith. ('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 6)
   (D)   Abatement of Dutch Elm nuisance on private property. Whenever the City
Forester, his agents or employees, finds with reasonable certainty that a
nuisance, as defined in § 95.22, and the nuisance is located on private
property, outside any public way in the city, they shall notify by registered
or certified mail, the owner, lessee, occupant or person in control of such
property on which the nuisance is found, of the infestation and direct that the
infestation shall be removed and burned, or otherwise effectively treated in an
approved manner by such owner, lessee, occupant or person in control within ten
days after receipt of such notice. The notice shall also state that if such
nuisance shall not be abated by the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
control within the time provided, the owner, lessee, occupant or person in
control may be charged with a violation of this section for maintaining a
nuisance and that the city by and through its Council may abate the nuisances
and assess the costs against said property. If the owner, lessee, occupant or
person in control of any private premises upon which such a tree is situated
fails to have such a tree so removed and burned or otherwise effectively
treated, within ten days after receipt of notification by mail the City
Forester, his agents or employees, shall proceed to have such tree removed and
burned or otherwise effectively treated, and any expense incurred by the city
in so doing shall be a charge and lien upon the property and shall be collected
as a special assessment in the same manner as other special assessments. ('69
Code, § 6.71, Subd. 7) (Ord. 481, eff. 9-13-71)
§ 95.24 COLLECTION OF ASSESSMENT.
   The cost of the assessment of any such nuisance paid by the city and not
reimbursed by the owner on or before September 1 of each year shall be reported
by the City Forester to the Council and the Council shall assess and levy and
cause to be collected the amount of such costs as a special assessment upon and
against the premises and property upon which said nuisance existed in like
manner as such other special assessments, payable in one sum.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 8)
§ 95.25 TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport within the city any bark-bearing
elm wood without having obtained a permit from the City Forester. The City
Forester shall grant such permits only when the purpose of this subchapter
shall be served thereby.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.26 INTERFERING WITH CITY FORESTER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the City
Forester, his agents or employees, while they are engaged in the performance of
duties imposed by this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.27 POSITION OF CITY FORESTER CREATED.
   The position of City Forester is hereby created. The Superintendent of
Public Works of the city or such other city official or person as may be
designated from time to time by the City Administrator shall perform the duties
of City Forester.
('69 Code, § 6.71, Subd. 11)
CHAPTER 96: WEEDS
Section
   
96.01   City to control grass on streets, public lands and public drainage
facilities
   
96.02   Unlawful vegetation
   
96.03   Exceptions
   
96.04   Wetlands
   
96.05   Violations
   
96.06   Removal
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 CITY TO CONTROL GRASS ON STREETS, PUBLIC LANDS AND PUBLIC DRAINAGE
FACILITIES.
   The city shall have control and supervision over all grass plats upon
streets, public drainage ditches or ponds, or other public property.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
§ 96.02 UNLAWFUL VEGETATION.
   (A)   Unless expressly excepted in § 96.03, it shall be unlawful for any
property owner, lessee, or occupant having control of any property within the
city to permit or maintain on any property, or on or along the sidewalk,
street, or alley adjacent to the property, between the property line and the
roadway, or middle of the street or alley, any uncultivated or uncontrolled
growth of weeds, grass, brush, or other vegetation which is not part of an
orderly landscape design, to a greater height than six inches, measured from
the base at ground level to the tip of each stalk, stem, blade, or leaf, or
which have gone or are about to go to seed.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or person to cause or
permit the accumulation of dead weeds, grass, or brush, or any vegetation,
living or dead, which permits the harboring of rodents or vermin, permits the
collection of stagnant ground water, or encourages the accumulation of rubbish
or trash.
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any such person or persons to cause or
allow noxious weeds as defined by the statutes of the State of Minnesota, the
City Code, or as may be declared by the City Council, to exist on any property
within the city limits.
   (D)   Vegetation declared unlawful by this section is a public nuisance.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The terms of § 96.02(A) shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Property currently used for agricultural purposes and under current
cultivation, or which is used for grazing purposes.
      (2)   Property which is undeveloped, except for those portions of such
properties within 75 feet of abutting property developed or under development,
improved public or private facilities, or streets.
      (3)   Natural preserves, which shall be any publicly-owned lands
designated as park or open space or private properties approved by the city,
which are set aside to preserve their natural characteristics and qualities.
      (4)   Public right-of-way property physically separated from adjacent
private property by any improvement placed by the public authority.
      (5)   Public right-of-way property otherwise posted by public authority
so as to indicate that mowing should not occur or only should be done by public
authority.
      (6)   A public drainage pond or ditch which stores or conveys storm
water.
      (7)   Maintained and weeded gardens, trees, and shrub plantings.
   (B)   All other provisions of § 96.02(B) through (D) shall apply to these
properties.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
§ 96.04 WETLANDS.
   The terms of § 96.02(A) and (B) shall not apply to any wetland delineated by
the Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources, the Army Corps of Engineers, or the Nobles Soil and Water
Conservation District. The terms of § 96.02(C) and (D) apply to such wetlands.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
§ 96.05 VIOLATIONS.
   When a nuisance appears to exist in violation of § 96.02, the city shall
serve notice upon the owner and occupant of the property, or the agent of each,
by registered or certified mail or by personal service, ordering such owner and
occupant to have such weeds or grass cut and removed, or such brush and debris
removed, or other cleaning, grading, mowing, or other maintenance deemed
necessary, within five days after the receipt of the notice, unless the owner
or occupant appeals in the manner described in division (D) of this section.
The notice shall also state that, in case of noncompliance, such work will be
done by the municipality at the expense of the owner, in accordance with the
prevailing fee schedule, which shall be billed to the property owner and shall
constitute a lien upon such realty, and that if unpaid, the charge for such
work, plus interest, will be made a special assessment against the property
concerned, and such special assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes
to the County Auditor, be certified for collection as other special assessments
are certified and collected.
   (A)   When no owner, occupant, or agent of the owner or occupant can be
found, notice shall be posted on the property on which the nuisance exists in a
prominent location ten days before the city eliminates the nuisance, which
posting shall constitute mailed notice pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Refusal to accept such mailed notice shall not constitute a defense
that notice was not received.
   (C)   Representatives of the city are authorized to go upon property upon
which a nuisance appears to exist in order to measure vegetation height and
take reasonable vegetative samples in connection with such a nuisance.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order from the city to cut grass or weeds
on his or her property may appeal same to a committee comprised of two members
of the City Council and the City Weed Inspector by filing a written request for
a hearing with the appointed City Weed Inspector within five days following
receipt of service of the notice to cut. A timely-filed notice shall stay any
action by the city to eliminate the nuisance described in the notice to cut
until the appeal has been decided by the Committee. The Committee shall hear
the appeal after advising the appellant of the date, time, and place of such
meeting, and shall therefore render its decision. The Committee's decision
shall constitute the final decision of the city on the matter.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.06 REMOVAL.
   If an owner or occupant fails to comply with such notice or to appeal same
within five days after receipt of service of the notice, or if no owner,
occupant, or agent of each can be found, the city may cause such weeds or grass
to be cut and removed, or such brush or other debris removed, or other
cleaning, grading, mowing, or other maintenance on the property as deemed
necessary. A record shall
be kept showing the cost of such work attributable to each separate lot or
parcel, and such information shall be filed with the City Clerk. The City
Council shall establish a fee schedule upon which charges for lot maintenance
shall be based.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction may be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500, imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. In
addition thereto, the costs of prosecution may be imposed upon the defendant,
and the court shall order restitution to the city as appropriate.
(Ord. 834, passed 5-27-97)
CHAPTER 97: ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Abandoning a motor vehicle
   
97.03   Allowing an abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle on property
   
97.04   Custody of abandoned motor vehicles or inoperable vehicles
   
97.05   Immediate sale
   
97.06   Notice
   
97.07   Right to reclaim
   
97.08   Public sale
   
97.09   Disposal of vehicles not sold
   
97.10   Cost of reimbursement
   
97.11   Storage or parking stock car, racing car, or inoperable vehicle
   
97.12   Service and repair of stock car, racing car, or inoperable vehicle
   
97.13   Operation of stock car or racing car
   
97.14   Storage of restorable automobile or street rod
   
97.15   Inoperable vehicles on auto repair lots
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle, as
defined in M.S. § 169.01, which has been voluntarily surrendered by its owner
to the City of Worthington or to a person duly licensed under M.S. § 168B.10 or
which has remained for more than 48 hours in a condition described by one of
the following:
      (1)   On public property in violation of either the Worthington City Code
or Minnesota Statutes;
      (2)   On private property without consent of the person in control of the
property;
      (3)   Disabled whether located on public property or private property;
      (4)   Not secure from entry whether located on public property or private
property;
      (5)   Without license plates conspicuously displayed thereon; or
      (6)   With license plates which have an expiration date more than 30 days
prior to the date of inspection.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE - EXEMPTIONS. For the purposes of this chapter, the
following vehicles shall not be considered abandoned motor vehicles:
      (1)   A classic or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10; provided,
that it is kept secure and as long as it has substantial potential further use
consistent with its usual functions;
      (2)   Vehicles on the premises of a motor vehicle and part's dealer,
junkyard, junk dealer, motor vehicle salvage dealer, automobile repair garage,
or body shop; provided such motor vehicle and parts dealer, junkyard, junk
dealer, motor vehicle salvage dealer, automobile repair garage, or body shop
has all licenses and permits required by the City of Worthington, and the State
of Minnesota;
      (3)   A vehicle kept inside an enclosed garage or storage building;
      (4)   A racing car as hereinafter defined;
      (5)   A stock car as hereinafter defined; or
      (6)   A car which is being used for parts and there is compliance with
the provisions of §
 97.14.
   AUTO REPAIR LOT. An establishment primarily engaged in the repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar mechanical equipment,
including but not limited to brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire repair and
change, lubrication, tune ups, and transmission work, provided it is conducted
within a completely enclosed building being correctly zoned and licensed for
such use.
   RACING CAR. Any motor vehicle designed or intended for operation on a
speedway, racetrack, or other facility used or designated for high speed
contests between two or more vehicles or for timing of speed.
   STOCK CAR. Any motor vehicle of standard design and construction which is
modified, adapted or altered in any manner to increase the speed or safety, and
designed or intended for operation on a speedway, racetrack, or other facility
used or designed for high speed contests between two or more vehicles or for
timing of speed.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle, other than a restorable automobile or street
rod as those terms are defined in this section, including, but not limited to,
any automobile, truck, trailer, marine craft, snowmobile, motorcycle, all
terrain vehicle, mobile home, pickup camper, camping trailer, and other
equipment for motorized transportation, which is in a condition which is
described by one of the following:
      (1)   Has a missing or defective part that is necessary for the normal
operation of the vehicle including, but not limited to the (a) motor, (b) drive
train (c) a wheel or wheels;
      (2)   Is stored on blocks, jacks, or other supports;
      (3)   Does not display a license, or displays a license that is 90 days
or more past its required renewal date;
      (4)   Unmounted pickup campers or vehicles which are towed shall not be
deemed inoperable vehicles if they otherwise possess all parts and are capable
of normal operation and, if a license is required, display a license that is
not more than 90 days past its required renewal date.
   RESTORABLE AUTOMOBILES, STREET RODS. A restorable automobile or a street rod
is a vehicle which is or can be restored or modified so it is operable on
streets and highways and which fits all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The owner of the vehicle has notified the City's Public Works
Department by letter that an automobile restoration or street rod construction
project is underway;
      (2)   The vehicle is eligible for collector/street rod/or pioneer license
plates under Minnesota's motor vehicle registration laws;
      (3)   The vehicle is titled in the name of the person sending the letter
of notification for which provision is made in (1) above, or an application for
such title is pending with the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 97.02 ABANDONING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person shall abandon a motor vehicle on any public property or on private
property without the consent of the person in control of such property.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.03 ALLOWING AN ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE ON PROPERTY.
   No person in charge or control of private property, whether as owner,
tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow an abandoned motor vehicle
or inoperable vehicle to remain on such property unless in a completely
enclosed building or an auto repair business screened in accordance with §
97.15.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 97.04 CUSTODY OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES OR INOPERABLE VEHICLES.
   (A)   The City Police and the Neighborhood Services Officer for the city are
hereby authorized to remove or have removed and impounded any motor vehicle or
vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in
violation of this chapter or which reasonably appears to be a stolen vehicle or
unclaimed vehicle.
   (B)   The impounding and taking into custody of a motor vehicle or vehicle
pursuant to this chapter may be done by a City Police Officer or by the
Neighborhood Services Officer. A City Police Officer or the Neighborhood
Services Officer for the city may enter upon private property at all reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspecting such vehicle and impounding such vehicle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent a City Police Officer or the
Neighborhood Services Officer for the city from entering on private property
for the purposes of carrying out the duties hereunder or to interfere in the
performance of the duties imposed on the Police or the Neighborhood Services
Officer.
   (C)   If a vehicle is located on private property, before it is taken into
custody by the City Police or the City Neighborhood Services Officer, notice
that the vehicle is going to be taken into custody shall be given by regular
mail to the person in whose name the title to vehicle is registered and to the
owner or occupant of the private property on which the vehicle is located.
Seven days after the notice is mailed the vehicle may be taken into custody by
the City Police or the City Neighborhood Services Officer. If the notice is
returned as undeliverable the vehicle shall be posted with a notice that the
vehicle will be taken into custody by the City Police or the City Neighborhood
Services Officer three days from the date of the notice. In lieu of mailing
notice to the last registered owner or the owner or occupant of the private
property, the vehicle may be posted with a notice that the vehicle will be
taken into custody by the City Police or the City Neighborhood Services Officer
three days from the date of the notice.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.05 IMMEDIATE SALE.
   When an abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle is more than seven
model years of age, is lacking vital component parts, and does not display a
license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other state or foreign
country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale at public auction after
police or community service officer takes custody and shall not be subject to
the notification, reclamation or title provisions of this chapter or other
statutory or ordinance provisions.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 97.06 NOTICE.
   (A)   When an abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle does not fall
within the provisions of §
97.05, the City Police or the City Neighborhood Services Officer shall give
notice of the taking within ten days. The notice shall set forth the date and
place of the taking, the year, make, model and serial number of the abandoned
motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle and the place where the vehicle is being
held, shall inform the owner if known and any lien holders if known of their
right to reclaim the vehicle under §
97.07 and shall state that failure of the owner or lien holders of their right
to reclaim the vehicle shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title,
and interest in the vehicle and a consent to the sale of the vehicle at a
public auction pursuant to §
97.08.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. If it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all
lienholders, the notice shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was abandoned. Published
notices may be grouped together for convenience and economy. The notice,
whether mailed or published, shall describe the vehicle sufficiently so the
vehicle can be identified.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 97.07 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Within 15 days after the date of the notice required by
§ 97.06, the owner or any lienholder of an abandoned motor vehicle or
inoperable vehicle shall have a right to reclaim such vehicle from the City of
Worthington upon payment of all towing, administrative fees and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garagekeeper under the laws of this state or the right of a lienholder to
foreclose. For the purposes of this section, "garagekeeper" is an operator of a
parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle storage
facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.08 PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   An abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle taken into custody
and not reclaimed under
§ 97.07 shall be sold to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following
reasonable published notice thereof. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in
the form prescribed by the agency which shall be sufficient title to dispose of
the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the
vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and
claims of ownership.
   (B)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle or
inoperable motor vehicle, the City of Worthington shall reimburse itself for
the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all notice and
publication costs, including administrative fees, incurred pursuant to this
chapter. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner
of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited
in the state treasury.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.09 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES NOT SOLD.
    Where no bid has been received for an abandoned motor vehicle or an
inoperable motor vehicle, the City of Worthington may dispose of it pursuant to
the provisions in M.S. § 168B.09.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1003, passed 8-13-07 )
§ 97.10 COST OF REIMBURSEMENT.
   Any of the costs incurred pursuant to the enforcement of this chapter not
recovered and reimbursed to the City of Worthington from the sale of a motor
vehicle under
§ 97.08 may be charged against the property where the motor vehicle was removed
from and treated as a special assessment to be collected in the manner provided
by the ordinances of the City of Worthington.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.11 STORAGE OR PARKING STOCK CAR, RACING CAR, OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to park, keep, place, or store or permit the
parking or storage of a stock car, racing car, or inoperable vehicle on a
public street or alley, or on any private lands or premises the person owns,
occupies, or controls unless it shall be within a building.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1196,
passed 5-8-23)
§ 97.12 SERVICE AND REPAIR OF STOCK CAR, RACING CAR, OR INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, replace parts or do
maintenance work on a stock car, racing car, or inoperable car on a public
street or on any private land or premises unless it shall be stored within a
building on such private premises when such vehicle is not in the process of
being serviced, repaired, or maintained.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.13 OPERATION OF STOCK CAR OR RACING CAR.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a stock car or racing car
upon streets and alleys.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03)
§ 97.14 STORAGE OF RESTORABLE AUTOMOBILE OR STREET ROD.
   It is unlawful for any person to park, keep, place, or store or permit the
parking or storage of a restorable automobile, which is inoperable, or street
rod, which is in the process of construction, unless visible progress on the
restoration of the vehicle is occurring. For purposes of this section "visible
progress" means that a reasonable person knowledgeable about motor vehicle
restoration would conclude that a bona fide restoration or street rod
construction effort is occurring with the vehicle. Dead grass under the vehicle
or weeds growing through the chassis of the vehicle shall be prima facie proof
that no restoration of the vehicle is in progress. During automotive
restoration efforts, no loose parts may be stored in the yard, there can be no
tarps used over the cars and under no circumstances can any such car be stored
in the front, rear or side yard. No motors, tires, axles, transmissions, or
parts of any kind or nature, may be stored outside.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
§ 97.15 INOPERABLE VEHICLES ON AUTO REPAIR LOTS.
   Auto repair shops shall keep no more than six inoperable vehicles on the
premises at any one time. If more than six inoperable vehicles are on the
property at one time, it shall constitute a junk yard as provided in the City's
Zoning Ordinance in §
155.010.
(Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1196, passed 5-8-23)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   No person shall abandon any motor vehicle in violation of
§ 97.02 of this chapter or allow an abandoned motor vehicle or inoperable
vehicle to remain on property in violation of
§ 97.03 of this chapter.  Any such violation shall be a misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both. Each day the violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 947, passed 6-23-03; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
CHAPTER 98: MINIMUM MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR ALL STRUCTURES AND PREMISES
Section
   
98.01   Findings of Council
   
98.02   Applicability and scope
   
98.03   Pre-existing structures and buildings
   
98.04   Existing remedies
   
98.05   Definitions
   
98.06   Exterior property areas
   
98.07   Exterior structure
   
98.08   Occupancy limitation
   
98.09   Nonresidential, industrial and institutional uses
   
98.10   Council findings
   
98.11   Structures unfit for human habitation
   
98.12   Stay of enforcement; penalty
   
98.13   Conflict with other ordinances
   
98.14   Administrative liability
   
98.15   [Reserved]
   
98.16   [Reserved]
   
98.17   Violation a public nuisance
   
98.18   Private cause of action
   
98.19   [Reserved]
   
98.20   Certain nuisance dwellings
§ 98.01 FINDINGS OF COUNCIL.
   There exists in the city structures which are now or which may in the future
become substandard with respect to structure, equipment, maintenance or energy
efficiency. That such conditions, together with inadequate provision for light
and air, insufficient protection against fire hazards, lack of proper heating,
unsanitary conditions and overcrowding, constitute a menace to public health,
safety and welfare of its citizens. It is further found and declared that the
existence of such conditions, factors or characteristics adversely affects
public health and safety and leads to the continuation, extension and
aggravation of urban blight with attendant depreciation of property values. It
is further found that adequate protection of public health, safety and welfare,
therefore, requires the establishment and enforcement of minimum property
standards.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.02 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE.
   All alterations, reconstruction or repair of an existing building shall be
done in accordance with applicable sections of the Minnesota State Building
Code and Chapters 150 and 155 of this code. Nothing in this chapter shall be
applicable to rest homes, convalescent homes, nursing homes or hotels, except
that all such structures shall meet the requirements herein which contain
provisions pertaining to such structures. All existing structures which were
legally altered or repaired under previous editions of the State Building Code
may be allowed to exist if they are not determined hazardous by the enforcement
officer.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.03 PRE-EXISTING STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS.
   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the occupancy of all
structures and buildings and does not replace or modify standards otherwise
established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of building
equipment or facilities.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.04 EXISTING REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair existing
remedies of the city under any of the provisions of this code in existence on
the date of enactment of this chapter. Any conflicts between this chapter and
other provisions of the code will be resolved by enforcement of the provision
most favorable to the expressed intent of this chapter as set forth in § 98.01.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future, the singular number includes the
plural and the plural the singular, the masculine includes the feminine and the
feminine the masculine. Where terms are not defined in this section and are
defined in the State Building Code (as adopted by the city under Chapter 150),
such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Building Code. Where
terms are not defined under the provisions of this chapter or under the
provisions of the Building Code, such terms shall have ascribed to them their
ordinarily accepted meanings considering the context in which used in this
chapter. Whenever the words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,” “rooming units,”
“premises” and “structures” are used in this chapter, such words shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof.” If a term is
defined in this chapter and in some other section of the code, the definition
which is most favorable to enforcement of this chapter shall apply.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE. A building or structure in a secondary or
subordinate capacity from the main or principal building or structure on the
same premises.
   APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY.  The person within the governmental structure of the
corporate unit who is charged with the administration of the appropriate code
or that agency which is specifically designated to deal with situations related
to a specific issue pertaining to this chapter.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or method of construction, shall
mean approved by the enforcement officer under the provisions of this chapter
or approved by other authority designated by law to give approval in the matter
in question.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building partly below grade but so located that
the vertical distance from grade to floor is not greater than the vertical
distance from the grade to the ceiling.
   BOARDING CARE HOME. This type of use is licensed and regulated by other city
and state laws. A BOARDING CARE HOME shall be defined the same as contained in
the regulations of the Minnesota State Board of Health or by such other state
agency that licenses and regulates boarding care homes.
   BUILDING. Any temporary or permanent structure which is constructed for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
   BUILDING CODE. The Minnesota State Building Code as adopted under Chapter
150.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any metal garbage, rubbish and/or refuse container having a
capacity of two cubic yards or greater and which is equipped with fittings for
hydraulic and/or mechanical emptying, unloading and/or removal.
   CELLAR. A room or group of rooms totally below the ground level and usually
under a building.
   CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEM. A single system supplying heat to one or more
dwelling unit(s) or more than one rooming unit.
   CHIMNEY. A vertical masonry shaft of reinforced concrete or other approved
non-combustible, heat-resisting material enclosing one or more flues for the
purpose of removing products of combustion from solid, liquid or gaseous fuel.
   DILAPIDATED. No longer adequate for the purpose or use for which it was
originally intended.
   DWELLING. Any enclosed space wholly or partially used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, provided that “temporary housing,” as
hereinafter defined, shall not be classified as a dwelling. Industrialized
housing and modular construction which conform to nationally accepted industry
standards and are used or intended for use for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating purposes shall be classified as DWELLINGS. Mobile homes are included in
this definition.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Any building or portion thereof designed for or used
by three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building for and exclusively used for residence
purposes by one family only.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling joined to other dwellings by a party wall or
walls.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for and exclusively used for
residence purposes by two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room or suite of private or interconnecting rooms,
designed for occupancy by one or more persons for living and sleeping purposes
and having cooking, toilet and bathing facilities or any structure or portion
of a structure or other shelter designed as short or long-term living quarters
for one or more persons, including rental or timeshare accommodations such as
motels, hotels and resort rooms and cabins.
   EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure a safe means of exit
from buildings.
   EGRESS WINDOW. A window meeting the specifications in I.R.C. § 310.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Neighborhood Services Officer as appointed in
accordance with the provisions of Title IX or such other or additional agent(s)
or employee(s) of the city as may be appointed by authorization of the City
Council.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. Open space on the premises, on adjoining property
and all sidewalks, walkways and exterior stairs under the control of the owners
or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the local or state authority having such administrative authority.
   FAMILY. For the purpose of a rental unit, shall mean a person living alone
or two or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit, in a
dwelling unit, distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, motel or
hotel, fraternity or sorority house, provided that unless all members are
related by blood, adoption or marriage no such family shall contain over five
persons. A person for whom foster care is being given by another member of the
family in accordance with the provisions of an officially recognized care
program shall be considered related to the family member or members providing
such care.
   FLUSH WATER CLOSET. A toilet bowl which is flushed with water which has been
supplied under pressure and equipped with a water-sealed trap above the floor
level.
   GARBAGE. Discarded material resulting from the handling, processing,
storage, preparation, serving and consumption of food.
   GLAZED AREA. The area composed of glass or other suitable materials required
under the provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code as adopted pursuant
to Chapter 98.
   GRADE. The elevation established for the purpose of regulating the number of
stories and the height of buildings. GRADE shall be the mean level of the
finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the buildings.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total area of all habitable space.
   GUEST. An individual who shares a dwelling unit in a nonpermanent status for
not more than 30 days.
   GUEST ROOM. A room or a group of rooms in a licensed bed and breakfast
facility forming a single habitable unit which is located within the walls of a
residential structure and which is used or intended to be used for sleeping and
living but not for cooking or eating purposes and which is let individually as
a unit.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room occupied by one or more persons used or intended for
living, cooking, eating or sleeping purposes but does not include bathrooms,
closets, water closet compartments, laundries, serving and storage pantries,
corridors, cellars and spaces that are not used frequently or during extended
periods.
   HABITABLE SPACE. The square feet of floor space in a dwelling unit
multiplied by the number of stories, excluding the basement, unless the
basement is specifically designed for occupancy with egress facilities.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Sanitation Officer or an authorized
representative who is the legally designated health authority of Nobles County.
   HOUSING CODE. The Uniform Housing Code, volume 111, most recent edition,
published by the International Conference of Building Officials as adopted by §
150.02.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to a structure or premises,
of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
   INSPECTION. Unless the content of the provision in which the term is used
requires a different meaning for the provision to be effective, the term shall
apply to a review process which concerns only the exterior of a building and
the premises on which the building is located.
   LEAD-BASED PAINT. Any paint containing more lead than the level established
by the U.S. Consumer Safety Commission as being the safe level of lead in
residential paint and paint products.
   LET. To lease or to grant the use and possession of real property, whether
or not for compensation.
   LITTER.  All rubbish, waste material, refuse, garbage, trash, debris,
excrement, urine, offal composed of animal matter or vegetable or both or any
noxious or offensive matter whatever, including but not limited to, any dead
animals, dead fish and any of the following which are discarded or improperly
stored: chemicals, chemical compounds, petroleum products or compounds,
automobile parts or accessories, tires, wheels, furniture, appliances, junk,
paper, cardboard, lids, bottles, caps, cartons, wrappers, boxes, wooden
objects, plastic objects, rubber objects, leather objects, hides, feathers,
grass clippings, leaves, cut weeds, branches cut from trees or bushes, building
materials, brick, cinder block, paint, concrete, sand, gravel, stone, glass,
asphalt, ashes, cigarettes, cigars, food or food products, solvents, dyes,
beverages and liquids, except water. LITTER shall not include the composting of
yard wastes at any authorized facility or composting in composting-holding
units which meet the following specifications:
      (1)   Does not exceed 125 cubic feet in volume;
      (2)   Shall be constructed of wood, wire, metal or plastic excluding
plastic bags;
      (3)   May be a stationary or rotating unit;
      (4)   Shall be maintained to minimize odors; and
      (5)   Shall be insect-proof and animal-proof, both domestic and wild.
   NON-RECYCLING MATERIALS. Solid waste, refuse, construction debris and
materials for which there is no appropriate existing recycling market.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual, living, sleeping, cooking or eating in or having
possession of a dwelling unit for more than five days in any one-month period,
except that in dwelling units a guest shall not be considered an occupant.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a residential
structure, rooming house or building in which dwelling units, rooming units or
business spaces are let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Has legal title to any premises, building, structure, dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Has charge, care or control of any premises, building, structure,
dwelling or dwelling unit, as owner or agent of the owner or an executor,
administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
   OPENABLE or OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
   PLUMBING or PLUMBING FIXTURE. Water heating facilities, water pipes, gas
pipes, garbage and disposal units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes-washing
machines or other similar equipment, catch basins, drains, vents or other
similarly supplied fixtures, together with all connection to water, gas, sewer
or vent lines.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land,
either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-dwelling structure and
includes any such building, accessory structure or other structure thereon.
   PROFESSIONAL STATE OF MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR. Maintenance and repair was
done, is being done or will be done in a reasonable and skillful manner.
   PROPERLY CONNECTED. Connected in accordance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of the city, as from time to time enforced; provided, however, that
the application of this definition shall not require the alteration or
replacement of any connection in good working order and not constituting a
hazard to life or health.
   RAT, VERMIN AND INSECT HARBORAGE. Any conditions or place where rats, vermin
and insects can live or seek shelter.
   RAT AND VERMIN PROOFING. A form of construction which will prevent the
ingress or egress of rats and vermin to or from a given space or building or
from gaining access to food, water or harborage. It consists of the closing and
keeping of every opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and
interior walls, ground or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk
openings and other places that may be reached and entered by rats and vermin by
climbing, burrowing or other methods, by the use of materials impervious to rat
and vermin gnawing and other methods approved by the Building Inspector.
   RECYCLING MATERIALS. Aluminum cans, tin food cans, glass bottle jars,
plastic bottles and jugs, newspaper and corrugated boxes/cardboard.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible solid waste, except body waste and
includes garbage, rubbish, ash, incinerator residue, street cleanings and solid
industrial and market wastes.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. See “solid waste container.”
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. A residential structure, except when classified as an
institution under the Building Code, shall mean a building in which sleeping
accommodations or sleeping accommodations and cooking facilities as a unit are
provided.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes) consisting of, by
way of example and not limitation:
      (1)   Combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, plastic containers,
yard clippings and wood; or
      (2)   Noncombustible wastes such as tin cans, glass and crockery.
   SAFETY. The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents or disease.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish and non-recyclable paper but not concrete,
rock, dirt, construction materials, trees, cement pieces, yard waste or items
of extreme bulk or weight beyond the capacity of one person to lift.
Specifically excluded are recyclable materials.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. The container(s) furnished by the city's solid waste
contractor assigned to each residential customer within the city or bulk
storage containers supplied to commercial customers dependent upon the
requirements of a particular commercial customer. If no such containers are
being supplied, the term shall mean a refuse container which is a watertight
container constructed of metal or other durable material impervious to rodents
that is capable of being serviced without creating unsanitary conditions or
such other containers as have been approved by the appropriate authority.
Openings into the container such as covers and doors shall be tight-fitting.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The Building Code adopted by the State of Minnesota.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner.
   SUPPLIED. Installed, paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the
control of the owner, operator or agent.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any chemical product applied on the surface of or
incorporated into any structural or decorative material which constitutes a
potential hazard to human health at acute or chronic exposure levels.
   VARIANCE. A difference between that which is required or specified and that
which is permitted.
   YARD. All ground, lawn, court, walk, driveway or other open space
constituting part of the same premises as a structure.
   YARD, FRONT. Any yard extending across the full width of the subject
property, the area between the front property line and the nearest exterior
wall of the principal structure located on the subject property.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the subject property,
the depth of which is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and a line
parallel thereto on the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width
of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the side lot line and a
line parallel on the lot.
   ZONING CODE. Chapters 155 and 156.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.06 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   The owner of any premises shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
any accumulation of garbage, mixed municipal solid waste, solid waste, rubbish,
animal feces or refuse.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained in a
manner which, without causing erosion of the soil, allows water to drain away
from occupied structures and which will minimize the accumulation of water on
such premises.
   (C)   Ground cover. Every residential premise shall be maintained in a
condition to control erosion, dust and mud by suitable landscaping with grass,
trees, shrubs or other planted ground cover or by paving with asphalt, concrete
or by such other suitable means which complies with the applicable provisions
of the Zoning Code.
   (D)   Insect and rodent infestations. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner and the occupant to control or eliminate any infestation of insects,
rodents or other pests in all exterior areas and accessory structures on the
premises.
   (E)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including but not
limited to detached garages, sheds and fences, shall be maintained structurally
sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces or exterior surfaces
constructed of a material other than wood which needs paint or protective cover
or treatment to protect the surface from the elements, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by paint which
is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or treatment. Service
doors to residential garages shall be provided with securing locks. Fences and
similar structures constructed within a residential district shall be
constructed of a material sold and designed for such uses. Materials not
permitted for fence construction shall include, by way of example and not
limitation, plastic or cloth or similar type tarpaulins, corrugated or plastic
sheet goods, plywood sheet goods and galvanized, corrugated or rib steel.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.07 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   The owner of any premises shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Foundations, walls, chimneys, roofs and other exterior surfaces. Every
foundation, chimney, exterior wall, roof and all other exterior surfaces shall
be maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions which might admit dampness
to the interior portions of the wall or to the interior spaces of structures.
      (3)   All exterior wood surfaces or exterior surfaces constructed of a
material other than wood which needs paint or protective cover or treatment to
protect the surface from the elements, other than decay-resistant woods, shall
be protected from the elements and decay by paint which is not lead-based paint
or by other protective covering or treatment.
      (4)   The roof shall be tight, impervious to water and have no defects
which admit water or dampness to the interior of the building. No building roof
shall be used for storage of any materials, things or objects unless approved
by the enforcement officer.
      (5)   All exterior surfaces shall be of a material manufactured and
processed specifically for use in a weather-exposed location, including
roofing, exterior painted wood, masonry, exposed redwood and other suitable
materials. Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from dilapidation,
including those conditions caused by extensive cracking, tears or breaks and by
extensively deteriorated plaster, stucco, plastic, brick, wood or other
materials or combinations of materials.
      (6)   The exposed surface of exterior walls on a building above ground
level shall be maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair,
which will provide both sufficient covering and sufficient protection of the
true surface underneath against its deterioration. Without limiting the
generality of this section, an exposed surface shall be deemed not to be
maintained in a professional state of repair if either of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   The painted surface area is blistered, cracked, flaked, scaled
or chalked away and such conditions extend over more than 25% of the surface
area of any plane or wall or area, including porch trim, cornice members, porch
railings and such other areas; or
         (b)   More than 10% of the pointing of any masonry chimney or more
than 25% of the pointing of any masonry wall is loose, has fallen out or
otherwise does not exist.
      (7)   Any exterior surface required to be repaired under provisions of
this section shall be repaired in its entirety to make it weather-tight,
watertight and rodent- and insect-proof.
   (B)   Stairs, porches, decks and railings.
      (1)   Every outside stair and every porch and deck shall be constructed
in a professional manner, shall be capable of supporting a load as determined
in the Building Code and shall be maintained and kept in a professional state
of maintenance and repair and in accordance with the Building Code in effect
when originally constructed.
      (2)   Stairs, steps, porches, decks, handrails, balustrades and
guardrails deemed hazardous by the enforcement officer shall be corrected so as
to be in compliance with the Building Code.
   (C)   Windows, exterior doors, basement hatchways. Every window, exterior
door and basement hatchway shall be kept weather-tight, watertight and rodent/
insect proof and shall be kept in a professional state of maintenance and
repair.
      (1)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are
without open cracks
or holes.
      (2)   All window screens shall be in good condition and without open
tears or holes.
      (3)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit tight within
its frame.
      (4)   Every exterior door, including but not limited to a storm door,
shall have hinges and a latch which shall be in good condition and capable of
keeping the door closed at all times. Every exterior door shall be maintained
in a professional state of maintenance and repair. If the exterior door
requires screens or storm windows, the screens and storm windows shall be
provided and maintained in good condition and without tears or holes.
      (5)   Every exterior door when closed shall fit tightly within its frame.
      (6)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
such relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain
or similar elements and to substantially exclude wind from entering the
structure.
      (7)   Every basement hatchway and window opening shall be maintained in a
professional state of repair and shall be so constructed and maintained as to
prevent the entrance of rain and surface drainage water into the structure,
prevent the entrance of animals, whether domesticated or non-domesticated and
shall be rodent-proof and insect-proof.
      (8)   Every basement window which is openable shall be supplied with a
screen or hardware cloth of not more than 16 mesh per inch which fits tightly
and is securely fastened to the frame or with other materials affording
equivalent protection. Basement windows required for egress can be equipped
with bars or hinged units with hasps and padlocks that can be easily opened
from the interior for emergencies. Basement windows not required for egress can
be equipped with non-openable bars.
      (9)   Every window required for ventilation or other outside opening used
for ventilation purposes shall be supplied with a screen of not less than 16
mesh per inch.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.08 OCCUPANCY LIMITATION.
   A one-room dwelling unit which is rented to one person shall contain at
least 150 square feet of habitable space. A one-room dwelling unit which is
rented to more than one person must contain at least 75 square feet of
habitable space per person. A rental dwelling unit which has more than one room
must contain at least 150 square feet of habitable space per occupant. Nothing
herein contained shall require a family to move from or be moved from a
dwelling unit if the number of members of the family increases due to birth or
adoption after the first date of occupancy. The square footage of a basement or
an attic or of a room in a basement or in an attic which does not have two
means of egress shall not be considered habitable space.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.09 NONRESIDENTIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   In addition to any of the preceding provisions which may be of application
to nonresidential, industrial and institutional uses, the following sections
apply to all such uses. If one of the sections or provisions which follow
conflict with any of the preceding provisions, the provision most favorable to
the expressed intent of this chapter shall apply.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained free from
any accumulation of refuse, municipal solid waste, solid waste, rubbish,
garbage, litter, animal feces or refuse.
   (B)   Insect and rodent infestations. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner to exterminate any infestation of rodents, insects, vermin or other pests
in all exterior areas and accessory structures on the premises.
   (C)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including but not
limited to detached garages, sheds and fences, shall be maintained structurally
sound and in good repair. All exterior surfaces shall be maintained in a state
of good repair.
   (D)   Stored materials. It shall be unlawful to accumulate and store
building material, lumber, boxes, cartons or other containers, machinery, scrap
metal, junk, raw material, fabricated goods and other items in such manner as
to constitute a nuisance or rodent harborage.
   (E)   Obscuring fences.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to maintain outdoor storage abutting a
residential district or a property occupied by a one-, two-, three- or four-
dwelling unit, townhouse or multiple-family dwelling which constitutes a
nuisance. Upon a determination that a violation of this section exists, the
enforcement officer may cause the nuisance to be abated by requiring the
installation of a six-foot high obscuring fence or landscape screening at an
equal or lesser cost than a fence.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a notarized petition alleging the existence of a
public nuisance and signed by 2/3 of the property owners located in an area one
block in any direction of the subject property, the enforcement officer shall
inspect the property. In the event the enforcement officer determines that the
outdoor storage constitutes a violation, the enforcement officer may cause the
nuisance to be abated by requiring the installation of a six-foot high
obscuring fence or appropriate landscape screening.
   (F)   Refrigerators and accessible containers. It shall be unlawful to
permit a refrigerator or other container, sufficiently large to retain a child
and with doors which fasten automatically when closed, to be exposed and
accessible to children without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
   (G)   Foundations, walls, roofs and other exterior surfaces. Every
foundation, exterior wall, roof and all other exterior surfaces shall be
maintained in a professional state of maintenance and repair.
      (1)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers and any other conditions which admit dampness to the
interior portions of the walls or to the interior spaces.
      (3)   All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-resistant woods and
previously painted non-wood surfaces, shall be protected from the elements and
decay by paint which is not lead-based paint or by other protective covering or
treatment.
      (4)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain and
roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rainwater from causing dampness in
the walls.
   (H)   Stairs, porches, decks and railings.
      (1)   Every outside stair and every porch and deck shall be constructed
safely and be capable of supporting a load as determined in the State Building
Code and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every stairway,
porch, deck or step which is more than 30 inches above grade shall have
guardrails constructed in accordance with the Building Code and maintained in
accordance with the State Building Code under which it was constructed.
      (2)   Stairs, steps, porches, decks, handrails, balustrades and
guardrails deemed hazardous by the enforcement officer shall be corrected in
accordance with the Building Code or be maintained in accordance with the
Building Code specifications under which it was originally constructed.
   (I)   Windows, doors and hatchways. Every window, exterior door and basement
hatchway shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and
repair.
      (1)   Windows shall be fully supplied with windowpanes which are without
open cracks or holes, sashes shall be in sound condition and fit reasonably
tight within the frame and windows and windows other than a fixed window shall
be capable of being easily opened and have hardware to hold it in the open
position. Locking hardware shall be required on all windows up to and including
the second story and on every other window which is accessible by an adjacent
fire escape, stairway or other means of access integral to the structure.
      (2)   Every exterior door and its hardware shall be in sound condition
and fit reasonably well within its frame.
      (3)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water into the
structure.
      (4)   Every exit door shall be capable of being opened from the inside,
easily and without the use of a key, in accordance with the Building Code.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.10 COUNCIL FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that some property owners take little or no
responsibility for the exterior maintenance of their property until the city,
through its various inspections programs, has repeatedly ordered them to abate
the exterior of their property of the conditions listed in this chapter. Such
property owners create excessive costs for the city which are over and above
the normal cost of providing inspection services city-wide. Property owners who
must repeatedly be ordered to abate their property consume an unacceptable and
disproportionate share of limited city resources. Therefore, it is the intent
of the City Council, by the adoption of this section, to impose and collect a
user fee to defray costs associated with the excessive consumption of city
exterior inspection services.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EXTERIOR INSPECTION CYCLE. An enforcement officer has conducted an
exterior property area inspection based upon a complaint or otherwise had
occasion to view the exterior property area and observed a violation of this
chapter, issued an order to abate the violation and reinspected the exterior
property area to determine compliance with the abatement order.
      EXTERIOR INSPECTION SERVICES FEE. The fee to be imposed for exterior
property area inspection services deemed excessive. The fee shall be based upon
the number of inspections performed and shall include but not be limited to the
pro rata salaries of the enforcement officer performing exterior inspections of
the subject property, the pro rata cost of equipment, materials and all other
overhead costs used during inspection cycles of the subject property and the
costs of any medical treatment of enforcement officers injured as a result of
these inspections.
   (B)   Initial exterior inspection by enforcement officer. When an
enforcement officer conducts an initial inspection of an exterior property area
and determines that violations of this chapter exist, the enforcement officer
shall, in addition to any other action the enforcement officer may undertake,
serve written notice of the violation in conformance with the requirements set
forth in § 92.06(A)(1). The initial notice must contain a notice of warning
informing the owner that subsequent exterior property area inspections at that
same location within the next consecutive 12 months may be deemed an excessive
consumption of exterior inspection services and that the owner may be liable
for an exterior inspection services fee.
   (C)   Excessive consumption of exterior inspection services, fee and
liability.
      (1)   The city shall be entitled to collect its costs of enforcement from
a property owner who consumes excessive exterior inspection services. An
excessive consumption of exterior inspection services occurs at each element of
an exterior inspection cycle beginning after:
         (a)   Written notice of a violation is served under division (B)
following an initial inspection; and
         (b)   Two additional exterior inspection cycles are performed at the
same location within a period of 365 days after the initial inspection; and
         (c)   During each of the two additional exterior inspection cycles
under division (C)(1)(b) of this section, the enforcement officer finds
violations of this chapter which are either new violations or violations based
upon failure to correct previous violations.
      (2)   The fee for the third additional inspection cycle shall be $400.
The fee for each inspection cycle thereafter shall be $200.
      (3)   Multiple owners of a property who have received a notice of warning
shall be jointly and severally liable for the excessive consumption of exterior
inspection services fee. Receipt of notice by one multiple owner of a property
shall be considered receipt by all owners.
      (4)   The amount of the excessive consumption of exterior inspection
services fee shall be a debt owed to the city by the responsible person or
persons.
      (5)   Action under this section does not preclude any other civil or
criminal enforcement procedure.
      (6)   A new owner who has duly recorded the instrument of conveyance for
the subject property with the Nobles County Recorder shall not be liable for
any excessive consumption fees arising from inspection services provided to the
previous owner of the subject property.
   (D)   Cost; collection. The enforcement officer shall notify the City
Finance Department in writing of the excessive consumption of exterior
inspection services fee, of the name and address of the owner, the dates of the
inspections giving rise to the excessive consumption of exterior inspection
services fee, the violations observed and the amount of the excessive
consumption of exterior inspection services fee. The City Finance Department
shall thereafter cause appropriate billings to be made and be responsible for
the collection of the excessive consumption of exterior inspection services
fee.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.11 STRUCTURES UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   Action to condemn. Whenever an enforcement officer finds that any
dwelling unit or residential structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public because of violations of
any provision of the this code or any statute, rule or regulation of any
governmental agency but which structure does not constitute a dangerous
structure, in addition to invoking any other civil or criminal penalties for
which provision is made in this code or any other statute, rule or regulation
of any governmental body, the officer may take action to condemn the unit or
structure as being unfit for human habitation. A material endangerment
violation set forth in division (F) may be grounds for declaring a structure
unfit for human habitation.
   (B)   Placard as unfit for human habitation. Any residential structure or
unit ordered vacated or condemned as unfit for human habitation shall be posted
with a placard by the enforcement officer. The placard shall include the
following:
      (1)   Name of city;
      (2)   Name of the authorized department having jurisdiction;
      (3)   Chapter and section of the ordinance under which it is issued;
      (4)   Date on which the residential structure or unit must be vacated;
      (5)   Statement that the residential structure or unit, when vacated,
must remain vacant until the provisions of the order are complied with and the
order to vacate is withdrawn;
      (6)   Date that the placard is posted; and
      (7)   Statement of the penalty for defacing or unauthorized removal of
the placard.
   (C)   Defacement and unauthorized removal of placard. No person shall deface
or remove the placard from any structure which has been condemned and placarded
as unfit for human habitation. The placard may be removed only by or at the
direction of the enforcement officer. Defacement of a placard or unauthorized
removal of a placard shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with §
10.99.
   (D)   Service of notice. The enforcement officer shall serve a written
notice upon the owner of the premises informing the owner of the requirement to
vacate the residential structure or unit within 24 hours of posting the
placard. Service of the notice shall be by delivery to the owner personally or
by leaving the notice at the owner's usual place of abode or with a person of
suitable age and discretion or by depositing in the U.S. Post Office the
notice, addressed to the owner at the last known address with postage prepaid.
   (E)   Vacation of structure or unit.
      (1)   Any residential structure or residential unit which has been
condemned or placarded as unfit for human habitation shall be vacated within
the time set forth in the placard and/or order. No person shall occupy or let
for occupancy any dwelling unit which is condemned as unfit for human
habitation.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, OCCUPANCY shall be defined as any
physical acts of possession, including dwelling, living, eating, sleeping,
residing or conducting household affairs in a structure as a domicile or
residence, primary or otherwise.
   (F)   Material endangerment violations. The following violations may
constitute material endangerment if in combination or alone the conditions are
substantial and expose the occupants or the public to danger or peril:
      (1)   Lacking maintenance; dilapidation. Whenever the structure or any
portion thereof, because of dilapidation, deterioration or decay, faulty
construction, the removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building, the deterioration, decay
or inadequacy of its foundation or any other cause, is likely to partially or
completely collapse or whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof
is likely to fall or to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby
injure persons or damage property or whenever the building has been so damaged
by fire, wind, earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated
as to become an attractive nuisance to children, become a harborage for
rodents, insects and vermin, become a harbor for vagrants or criminals or
enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
      (2)   Fire hazard. Whenever the structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits or access to
exits, lack of sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring,
gas connections or heating apparatus or other cause, is determined by the
enforcement officer to be a fire hazard;
      (3)   Unsanitary conditions. Whenever the residential structure,
structure or dwelling unit, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
decay, damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, unclean fixtures, accumulation of garbage, refuse or
combustibles or otherwise, is determined by the enforcement officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such an unsound condition that it
is likely to cause or harbor sickness or disease;
      (4)   Insect, rodent or other pests. Whenever the residential structure
or dwelling unit has a substantial or severe insect, rodent or other pest
infestation, rodent burrows, open sewage systems or lacks approved rodent-
proofing of the structure;
      (5)   Lack of basic facilities. Whenever the residential structure or
structure lacks water, hot water, approved electrical, heating or sewage
disposal systems or where the existing systems are unsafe for continued
operation; and
      (6)   Violations of other requirements. Whenever any residential
structure or structure or any part thereof is:
         (a)   Constructed, exists or is maintained in violation of any
specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such residential structure or
structure provided by the State Building Code; or
         (b)   Is erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
   (G)   Dangerous conditions. Whenever, in the opinion of the enforcement
officer, any condition exists which is so dangerous to the safety or health of
the occupants or the public as to justify condemnation of the residential
structure or structure as unfit for human habitation, such structure shall be
deemed an unlawful structure and the enforcement officer may cause such
dwelling to be vacated.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.12 STAY OF ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   (A)   Voluntary vacation of premises. No penalty shall be imposed upon any
owner who serves written notice upon the Legislative Hearing Officer stating an
intent to permanently vacate the premises within 30 days. Written notice must
be filed with the Hearing Officer within ten days from the date on which the
placard was placed on the property and shall include proof that notice of
eviction was served upon the occupants of the condemned premises.
   (B)   Stay pending appeal. Enforcement proceedings or orders to correct
violations shall be held in abeyance if the owner shall file an appeal to the
Legislative Hearing Officer within ten days of receiving the written order
issued by the enforcement officer, except in the case of an order to vacate a
structure which is deemed to be in an unsafe condition and dangerous to life or
limb, the enforcement officer shall proceed to order the building vacated until
it is made safe or a final determination is made by the Legislative Hearing
Officer allowing re-occupancy of the building. Abeyance of enforcement
proceedings shall continue until such time as the Hearing Officer shall have
issued a final determination or in the event the owner should not prosecute the
appeal in a timely fashion.
   (C)   Procedure on appeal. An appeal from an order of an enforcement officer
shall proceed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 31.
   (D)   Summary enforcement. In cases where the delay required to complete the
notice and procedure requirements set forth in divisions (A) or (B) will permit
a violation of this chapter to unreasonably endanger public health, safety or
welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter. To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer charged with
enforcement shall determine that a violation exists or is being maintained on
premises in the city and that delay in a cure of the violation will
unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The enforcement officer
shall notify, in writing, the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature
of the violation and of the city's intention to seek summary enforcement and
the time and place of the Council meeting at which the question of summary
enforcement will be considered. The City Council shall determine whether or not
the condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a violation,
whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by
delay required to complete the procedure set forth in this section and may
order that such violation be immediately cured. If the nuisance is not
immediately cured, the City Council may order summary enforcement and take such
action as is required to cure the violation.
   (E)   Extension of time to cure violation. If no appeal is made by the
property owner or occupant or person claimed to be responsible for permitting a
violation of this chapter to exist, the enforcement officer on request by the
property owner or occupant or person claimed to be responsible for permitting a
violation to exist may agree to extend the time period during which the owner,
occupant or responsible person has to cure the violation. The extension of time
shall be for a reasonable period. A refusal by the enforcement officer to
extend the time period in which the owner, occupant or responsible person can
cure the violation is not appealable.
   (F)   Cure of violation by city. If the owner or occupant does not cure the
violation during the time period as set by the enforcement officer, whether as
originally set or as extended or by the Legislative Hearing Officer after
appeal, the city shall have the right to cure the violation. For the purpose of
curing the violation, the city shall have the right to enter on the property
where the violation exists to do what is necessary to cure the violation. By
failing to cure the violation within any time period set the owner or occupant
shall be considered to have consented to such entry.
   (G)   Recovery of cost. The owner of premises on which a violation has been
cured by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city for the
curing of the violation, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official
designated by the Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the
owner by first class mail. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk. Where the responsible party is the
property owner, if all or any portion of the cost of curing the violation
remains unpaid after 30 days, the portion thereof that remains unpaid
constitutes a lien on the property that was the subject of the curative
procedures. The City Clerk or other official designated by the Council is
authorized to file a notice of lien with the County Recorder’s office.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.13 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health ordinance,
chapter or code of this city, the provision which establishes the higher
standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
people shall prevail.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.14 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the city shall be rendered personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of their duties under this chapter.
No person who institutes or assists in the prosecution of a criminal proceeding
under this code shall be liable in damages therefor unless they have acted with
actual malice and without reasonable grounds for believing that the person
accused or prosecuted was guilty of an unlawful act or omission. Any suit
brought against any officer, agent or employee of the city as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of their duties under this chapter
shall be defended by the City Attorney until the final determination of the
proceedings therein.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.15 [RESERVED.]
§ 98.16 [RESERVED.]
§ 98.17 VIOLATION A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   If the violation constitutes a public nuisance as such term is defined by
Minnesota State Statute or Chapter 92, the enforcement officer may seek to
abate the nuisance in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 92.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 98.18 PRIVATE CAUSE OF ACTION.
   Any person who has been damaged by a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall have a private civil cause of action against the violator which
may be brought in State District Court in the manner provided by law. Any
action brought under this section shall be tried to the court. The court shall
hear the evidence and if the case is proven by a preponderance of the evidence
the court shall issue an order for appropriate relief, which may include an
award of monetary damages, injunctive relief or other remedies which the court
believes will effectuate the purpose of this chapter or of any other chapter of
this code. If the court finds that the person bringing the action prevails, the
court shall award the person costs, disbursements and a reasonable attorney's
fee for pursuing the action.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
§ 98.19 [RESERVED.]
§ 98.20 CERTAIN NUISANCE DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DWELLING. Any one-family rental dwelling or multiple-unit dwelling.
DWELLING includes both the building or structure and the land upon which it is
located.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Neighborhood Services Officer and any inspector
under his or her supervision and control and also includes any city officer or
employee charged with responsibility for the enforcement of a safety code.
      NUISANCE DWELLING. Any dwelling which has been found, upon inspection by
the Neighborhood Services Officer, to be in violation of any provision of any
applicable safety code on three separate dates in any 12-month period.
      OWNER. The person, firm, corporation or other entity listed in the
records on file in the Recorder's office as holding fee title to the dwelling
or if not so listed, then as a purchaser by contract for deed. If no such
person is so listed, the OWNER for the purpose of this section shall be any
adult occupant of the dwelling.
      RECORDER'S OFFICE. The Recorder's office is the Nobles County Recorder's
office and any successor agency or department thereof.
      SAFETY CODE. Any fire, housing, health, safety or other similar code, law
and ordinance, promulgated or enacted by the United States, the State of
Minnesota, the County of Nobles and the City of Worthington or any lawful
agency or department thereof, which are applicable to a dwelling in such city.
      SUBSTANTIAL VIOLATION OF A SAFETY CODE. A substantial violation of a
safety code is one which presents a distinct hazard to the public health,
welfare or safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Consent to inspection. If a dwelling is found to have a substantial
violation of a safety code subsequent to date of such finding, the owner and
occupant of the dwelling shall be deemed to consent to additional inspections
of the property by the Neighborhood Services Officer or other enforcement
officer during the 12-month period from after the date of the first substantial
violation of a safety code. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable times.
   (C)   Registration of a nuisance dwelling.
      (1)   Registration. Any dwelling meeting the definition of a nuisance
dwelling shall be deemed, on the date of the third inspection in such 12-month
period, to be registered as a nuisance dwelling and subject to the additional
provisions of this chapter, including the payment of a registration fee. Such
registration shall remain in effect for a 12-month period beginning on the date
of registration as a nuisance building.
      (2)   Additional requirements. Any dwelling deemed registered as provided
in division (C)(1) shall not be occupied until it has a certificate that is fit
for occupancy issued by the Neighborhood Services Officer or other appropriate
authority. Failure to have such a certificate issued within 12 months from the
date of registration shall subject such dwelling and its owner to all
enforcement and remedial measures which may be applicable under law or
ordinance.
   (D)   Multiple dwellings. If the owner of a registered nuisance dwelling
also owns other dwellings in the city, each other dwelling so owned shall be
deemed to be a nuisance dwelling and registered as such on the same date as the
first but only if such building has, within the same 12-month period, been
found upon inspection to be in violation of any applicable safety code. The
owner of a registered nuisance dwelling shall be deemed to have consented to
inspections of other buildings owned by the owner by allowing one dwelling to
become a registered nuisance dwelling. All of such dwellings which are deemed
to be additional nuisance dwellings shall be subject to all of the provisions
of this chapter and to the payment of a separate registration fee for each.
Such additional registrations shall also remain in effect for a 12-month period
as provided in division (C). The additional requirements in division (C)(2)
above shall also apply to such other dwellings as are deemed under this section
to be nuisance dwellings.
   (E)   Registration fee.
      (1)   Initial payment. The owner of a nuisance dwelling shall be
obligated to pay $250 to the city, payable within 15 days following the date of
mailing of written notice to the last known address of the owner that such
dwelling is a nuisance. Failure to do so shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Recover actual costs. The fee shall be used for recovery of the
city's actual costs in enforcement of this chapter. The Neighborhood Services
Officer or other appropriate officer of the city shall from time to time
determine whether such fee fully reimburses the city for its costs in
responding to complaints, costs of inspections and administration, as well as
costs of enforcement including inspectors and attorneys, for the period of time
covering the three violations and the succeeding 12-month period of
registration as a nuisance dwelling.
      (3)   Additional fee for multiple dwellings. An additional $250 fee shall
be paid by the owner of a nuisance dwelling for each other dwelling owned by
such owner which has, within the same 12-month period, been found upon
inspection to be in violation of any applicable safety code. Such sums shall be
used by the city to pay for inspections of such other dwellings together with
the legal, administrative and other enforcement costs incurred by the city in
so doing.
   (F)   Violations during period of registration.
      (1)   Continuance of registration. If the Neighborhood Services Officer
or other enforcement officer finds, upon one or more inspections, that any
registered nuisance dwelling has one or more violations of a safety code, the
registration shall be continued for an additional consecutive 12-month period
of registration and the owner shall pay an additional $250 registration fee as
provided in division (E) above.
      (2)   Nuisance abatement procedures. If the enforcement officer finds,
upon one or more inspections, that any registered nuisance dwelling:
         (a)   Has one or more substantial violations of a safety code;
         (b)   While registered has a documented and confirmed history as a
blighting influence on the community;
         (c)   Has persistent and continuous violations of the provisions of
any applicable safety code, even though not substantial; or
         (d)   During the second 12-month period of registration, has any
violation of a safety code; then such dwelling may be:
            1.   Deemed to be a nuisance under Chapter 92 and subject to all
enforcement and abatement procedures provided thereunder; and
            2.   Subject to all enforcement and remedial measures which may be
applicable under law or ordinance, including acquisition by eminent domain to
the extent authorized by law.
   (G)   No violations during period of registration. If the Neighborhood
Services Officer or other enforcement officer does not find, during any 12-
month period of registration as a nuisance dwelling, any violations of a safety
code, then the dwelling shall no longer be deemed to be registered at the end
of such 12-month period.
   (H)   Public list. The enforcement officer shall maintain a current list,
updated weekly, of the addresses of all registered nuisance dwellings, together
with, if available, the name of the owner thereof and the owner's address and
telephone number. Such list shall be public information as and to the extent
provided by law.
   (I)   Alternative procedures. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
supersede, amend or modify any other provision of this code or any safety code.
This section is supplementary and in aid of existing law and is not intended to
provide an exclusive remedy.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-12-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 99: OUTSIDE PARKING OF VEHICLES; DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Off-street parking within residential districts
   
99.03   Vehicles displayed for sale in a residential area
   
99.04   Outside parking in nonresidential districts
   
99.05   Conflicts with
Chapter 97
   
99.06   Exceptions for present uses
   
99.07   Procedure on violation
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. All structures other than the principal structure.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of a street or road right-of-way which is adjacent
to the portion of the street or road right-of-way which is improved for travel
or for parking beside the portion of the road or street used for travel.
      DRIVEWAY. The portion of a lot or parcel of real estate which is designed
and surfaced for vehicular traffic or storage, has its beginning at the street,
road or alley and terminates at a building or garage or at a point where a
building, other than a residence or garage, could be located. For commercial
buildings, churches, schools, places of public gathering and multi-unit
residential structures, the term DRIVEWAY may also mean the entrance from the
street, road or alley into an area designed for parking vehicles.
      OUTSIDE PARKING. Storage of a vehicle or parking of a vehicle other than
in a fully enclosed storage structure.
      OUTSIDE STORAGE. Keeping any goods, materials, merchandise or products in
an unenclosed and unroofed area.
      PARKING AREA. An area utilized for or intended to be utilized for parking
space and covered with a surfacing material.
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The residence if a residence is located on the
property. If there is no residence, the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE shall be the
largest building on the property. If more than one building on a property is
equal in size to the largest building, then any building may be the PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE. Which structure is the principal structure shall be determined at
the sole discretion of the representative of the city enforcing this chapter.
      SURFACING MATERIAL. Durable asphalt, concrete, brick or other permanent
equal, installed in an adequate depth and manner to reliably bear the intended
loadings. Within the limitations set forth at § 99.02(N), gravel and other
material is also included in the definition of SURFACING MATERIAL.
      VEHICLE or VEHICLES. Equipment for transportation of people, goods or
material and equipment ordinarily used for recreational purposes. Included
shall be, by way of example and not limitation, automobiles, trucks, pick-up
trucks, trailers, marine crafts, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, motor
homes, pick-up campers, buses and camping trailers.
      YARD. An open space other than a courtyard on a lot or parcel of real
estate unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward.
      YARD, FRONT. The area extended across the full width of the property and
between the front property line and the nearest exterior wall of the principal
structure located on the subject property.
      YARD, REAR. The area extended across the full width of the subject
property and between the rear property line and the nearest exterior wall of
the accessory and principal structures located on the subject property.
      YARD, SIDE. The area which extends from the front yard to the rear yard
of the subject property and lies between the side lot line and the nearest wall
of any accessory or principal structure which is located on the subject
property.
   (B)   If any other provision of this code defines a term and the definition
is in conflict with the definition of the term as contained in this section,
the definition most favorable to the city shall control.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04)
§ 99.02 OFF-STREET PARKING WITHIN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Vehicle parking shall be accessory to the permitted primary use of the
property. Vehicles parked on a property must be owned or leased by a resident
of the property and, unless otherwise provided, must be currently registered
and operable. A vehicle which is provided to a resident of the property by an
employer for the resident's personal use shall be considered a vehicle owned by
the resident for the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   It is permissible for visitors to park at a residence.
   (C)   Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim
the property as their legal residence shall be considered residents of the
property.
   (D)   Any motor truck, pick-up truck or similar vehicle being utilized by a
public or private utility, moving company or similar business, which is
actually being used to service a residence not owned by or occupied by the
operator of the vehicle.
   (E)   Any vehicle which is actually making a pick-up or delivery at the
location where it is parked. Parking for any period of time beyond the period
of time reasonably necessary to make such pick-up or delivery or in excess of
two hours shall be unlawful.
   (F)   A vehicle shall not be parked in any portion of the front yard unless
the vehicle is parked on a driveway or on a parking area directly adjacent to
the side of the driveway. The square footage of the front yard which is devoted
to green space shall always be as required by the applicable provisions of the
Zoning Code.
   (G)   Except in the case of recreational vehicles, if one vehicle is located
on a trailer, the vehicle and the trailer on which it is located shall be
considered one vehicle. If more than one vehicle is located on a trailer, each
vehicle in excess of one shall be considered an additional vehicle. All
vehicles must be operable and currently registered. If required to be
registered, the trailer must be registered. The trailer must also be fit for
its intended use.
   (H)   If two recreational vehicles are located on a trailer, the vehicles
and the trailer on which it is located shall be considered one vehicle. If more
than two such vehicles are located on a trailer each such vehicle in excess of
two shall be considered an additional vehicle. If registration is required, all
of the vehicles must be operable and currently registered. If required to be
registered, the trailer must be registered. The trailer must also be fit for
its intended use.
   (I)   No vehicle shall be parked upon any boulevard except as provided in §
99.06.
   (J)   (1)   The number of vehicles which may be parked in a rear yard shall
be limited as follows:
         (a)   Currently registered and operable passenger vehicles may be
parked in the rear yard.
         (b)   In addition to currently registered passenger vehicles, two
recreational vehicles may be parked in the rear yard. If a recreational vehicle
is of a type which is required to be registered, it must be currently
registered.
      (2)   If there is no reasonable access to a rear yard parking area, two
recreational vehicles may be parked on a parking area in a side yard or on a
driveway in a front yard. Parking of a recreational vehicle in a front yard
shall be restricted as provided in division (F). If a recreational vehicle is
of a type which is required to be registered it must be currently registered
and operable. One currently registered and operable passenger vehicle may be
parked on the side yard.
      (3)   If a rear yard is served by an alley or the lot or parcel of real
estate on which the rear yard is located is served by a street, road or alley
at two locations it shall be considered to have reasonable access.
   (K)   A recreational vehicle which is parked shall not be occupied nor be
provided with separate utility hook-ups except that upon application made to
the City Clerk on a prescribed form, the City Council may issue a temporary
permit so as to allow off-street parking within a residential district which
would otherwise be a violation of this division, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The days and hours of each temporary permit shall be determined and
set on an individual basis by the City Council after appropriate investigation
and based upon considerations which may include but shall not be limited to the
following.
      (2)   The proposed location;
         (a)   The support or opposition of property owners and/or residents
within 350 feet of the proposed location;
         (b)   The character of the person or organization that makes
application; and
         (c)   The purpose for which the license is sought.
         (d)   The person making application on behalf of an individual or
organization must be a local resident and, if on behalf of an organization, his
or her relationship to the organization is fully set forth in the application.
         (e)   No temporary permit may be issued for more than a 72-hour period
of time.
         (f)   No more than two temporary licenses shall be issued to any
person or organization in any calendar year.
      (3)   Fees for the temporary permit shall be established by City Council.
   (L)   All parking spaces, regardless of whether located in a front yard,
side yard or rear yard and access drives thereto shall be surfaced as provided
in this chapter.
   (M)   Before a driveway or parking space in a front yard, rear yard or side
yard is surfaced, a site plan must be prepared. The site plan must be approved
in accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code. The lot must be developed
in conformance with the approval of the appropriate official within one year
from the date of adoption of this chapter.
   (N)   In a rear yard or side yard, gravel, crushed rock, recycled asphalt or
concrete pavement, stones or timber or other durable materials may be used
provided they are installed and maintained in a manner to reliably bear the
intended loadings and to prevent rutting, erosion and tracking of soils.
Existing soils may be maintained as a surfacing material for parking or storage
of vehicles other than cars, trucks, vans or motor homes provided that rutting,
erosion, tracking of the soil or loss of vegetation does not occur as a result
of such parking or storage.
   (O)   In a front yard, a driveway shall be surfaced with either concrete
paving, durable asphalt paving, brick or other permanent equal material
installed to a depth and in a manner adequate to bear intended loadings. A
driveway which is not surfaced with either concrete paving, durable asphalt
paving, bricks or other permanent equal material installed to a depth and in a
manner adequate to bear intended loadings as of the effective date of this
chapter may remain in the condition in which it is as of the effective date of
the chapter until the driveway is rebuilt or resurfaced provided the surfacing
material is not causing erosion or tracking of soils.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04; Am. Ord. 1040, passed 5-9-11)   
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.03 VEHICLES DISPLAYED FOR SALE IN A RESIDENTIAL AREA.
   (A)   In a residential area, no person shall park more than one vehicle
displaying a “for sale” or exchange sign or notice on a public street or road.
   (B)   No more than one vehicle shall be permitted to be displayed for sale
or exchange per property street address regardless of the number of persons who
reside at the property street address. For the purpose of this section, a
dwelling which contains more than one residential unit will be treated as one
property street address.
   (C)   A vehicle displayed for sale must be currently registered to the
person displaying the vehicle for sale or owned by the person displaying the
vehicle for sale or exchange.
   (D)   A vehicle displayed for sale or exchange must have current
registration if the vehicle is of a type which is required to be registered and
must be operable.
   (E)   A vehicle displayed for sale or exchange must have a legibly printed
sign, at least six inches by eight inches in size, which contains the telephone
number of the person to whom the vehicle is registered or of the person who
owns the vehicle. The sign shall be displayed on the driver's side of the rear
window of an automobile or pick-up truck. On other vehicles, the sign shall be
displayed on the side or rear of the vehicle which is closest to the traveled
portion of the street or road. If a vehicle is of a type which is not
registered, the person whose telephone number appears in the notice shall
provide proof of ownership upon request by any enforcement officer. The person
to whom a vehicle is registered or who owns a vehicle displayed on the street
for sale must reside at the address of the residence in front of which the
vehicle is displayed for sale.
   (F)   A vehicle displayed for sale or exchange in the parking portion of a
street or road right-of-way can be displayed only in the parking portion of a
street or road right-of-way which provides on-street parking for the address
shown on the notice for which provision is made in division (E).
   (G)   A vehicle which is being displayed for sale or exchange must be parked
in full compliance with all other provisions of this chapter and this code.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.04 OUTSIDE PARKING IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In all commercial, industrial, business and transitional zoning
districts, all motor vehicles, agriculture and industrial equipment shall be
stored within a building or be fully screened so as not to be visible from
adjoining or adjacent lands and streets, except for the following:
      (1)   Motor vehicles bearing current registration licenses and operable,
provided the vehicles are necessary for the operation of the business; and
      (2)   Licensed or unlicensed motor vehicles, agriculture or industrial
equipment held for sale, distribution, repair or rent by authorized dealers or
businesses provided they are not inoperable vehicles as defined in §
97.01.
   (B)   Except as provided in
99.06, upon adoption of this chapter the parking of motor vehicles, agriculture
and industrial equipment upon the public right-of-way shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 99.05 CONFLICTS WITH CHAPTER 97.
   If a provision of this chapter is in conflict with a provision of Chapter
97, the provision contained in Chapter 97 shall prevail.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04)
§ 99.06 EXCEPTIONS FOR PRESENT USES.
   As of the effective date of this chapter, there are several commercial
establishments, former commercial establishments and residential properties
which have, prior to the date of this chapter, been permitted to utilize the
boulevard for parking. Provided the portion of the boulevard used by such
establishments for parking is, as of the effective date of this chapter, paved
with concrete or bituminous, such use shall be permitted to continue as the use
exists on the effective date of this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be
considered to grant to any user a property interest in the boulevard. The
permitted parking on the boulevard will be required to cease when that portion
of a boulevard or curbing is removed as a result of a street, drainage or
utility improvement. The responsibility to maintain the portion of the
boulevard used shall be that of the user. Premises liability insurance, in an
amount reasonable for the risk imposed by the use of the boulevard, shall be
provided by the user and the city shall be a named insured on the policy. Proof
of such insurance shall be provided to the city.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.07 PROCEDURE ON VIOLATION.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and punishable in accordance with the provisions of § 10.99. From and after the
date a notice of violation has been served, each 24-hour period or part thereof
during which a violation is permitted to exist shall be a separate misdemeanor.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to cause a
public nuisance and the nuisance may be abated in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 92.
(Ord. 966, passed 5-24-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 100: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
100.01   Disposition of abandoned property
§ 100.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   In addition to the requirements of Chapter 97, this is for property lawfully
coming into possession of the city through the public safety division.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for vehicles impounded pursuant to Chapter 97, all
property lawfully coming into possession of the city will be disposed of as
provided in this section, which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it
may be amended from time to time. Vehicles impounded pursuant to Chapter 97
will be disposed of according to the procedures of that chapter.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property will arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner.  The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property must be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property will be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the Chief of Police or Chief's designee after two weeks
published notice, setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property
to be sold. If the auction is to be held by way of an on-line auction service
on the internet, an advertisement will be published in the city's designated
newspaper two weeks prior to sale with the internet address of the auction and
a general list of the property to be sold. The city will also advertise on the
city's designated web site with a link to the internet auction service.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale will be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner will be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
(Ord. 987, passed 4-24-06)
CHAPTER 101: PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION
Section
   
101.01   Establishment; definition
   
101.02   Purpose
   
101.03   Composition
   
101.04   Duties
   
101.05   Funding
§ 101.01 ESTABLISHMENT; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Establishment. A Public Arts Commission is hereby established.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, PUBLIC ART is defined as
artwork within the corporate limits of the city for physical artwork which is
viewable from public spaces, whether on public or private land or buildings,
whether owned by an individual, a business entity or the city.
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-14-12)
§ 101.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Public Arts Commission shall include but not be limited
to:
   (A)   Promoting and providing opportunities for public art to enrich the
Worthington community;
   (B)   Establishing voluntary compliance standards and guidelines for public
art within the city;
   (C)   Determining the process and standards of accepting or declining gifts
or installations of public art;
   (D)   Finding and evaluating funding sources for public arts projects;
   (E)   Establishing the procedure and funding sources for the maintenance of
public art;
   (F)   Establishing voluntary compliance guidelines for placement of public
art;
   (G)   Ensuring that obsolete public art is property disposed of;
   (H)   Providing forums and hearings to discuss public arts and/or
architectural influences of projects and to determine and make recommendations
about public arts projects to the City Council; and
   (I)   Reviewing and approving all public art proposals as provided within
the guidelines of §
153.04 of the City Code.
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-14-12)
§ 101.03 COMPOSITION.
   The Commission shall be comprised of seven members: five of whom shall be
at-large members, one shall be a member of the City Council, and one member
shall be either a high school or college student which shall be a non-voting
member. The Council member and student members shall serve one-year terms. The
initial terms for the at-large members shall be staggered as follows: (1) one-
year term, (2) two-year terms, and (2) three-year terms. Thereafter, the at-
large members shall serve three-year terms. All members of the Commission,
including those appointed to fill an unexpired term, shall be appointed by the
Mayor with Council approval. No member may be reappointed who has served two
consecutive full terms of three years. A quorum of the Commission shall consist
of four members.
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-14-12)
§ 101.04 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Commission shall be:
   (A)   The Public Arts Commission shall act in an advisory capacity to the
City Council for the city and shall make recommendations to the City Council on
issues regarding public art within the city limits.
   (B)   The Public Arts Commission may develop and implement policies and
procedures, as necessary, with approval by the City Council, to meet the
purpose and objectives of the Commission.
   (C)   The Public Arts Commission shall review and recommend to the Council
for approval those projects that meet any of the following criteria, in
accordance with its written polices and procedures and shall recommend:
      (1)   Any art project on city park property, public or private property
if the project meets the definition of public art.
      (2)   Gifts of public art offered to the city.
      (3)   Any non-public art project that requires a conditional use permit,
variance, franchise agreement, or other action requiring approval of the City
Council.
      (4)   Public art, as defined in §
101.01, that requires maintenance or restoration.
      (5)   City improvement or facility projects that may include public art.
      (6)   Highly-visible private art, when requested by the owner.
      (7)   Other arts-related projects, as directed by the City Council.
   (D)   Applications for projects, or requests to be on the meeting agenda,
should be submitted to the Public Arts Commission seven days prior to the date
of regularly scheduled Commission meetings. Projects must be submitted on the
form specified and include the criteria as stated in the Commission’s policies
and procedures.
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-14-12)
§ 101.05 FUNDING.
   Funds for construction or maintenance of public arts projects shall be held
by the city in accounts dedicated for public arts use.
(Ord. 1051, passed 5-14-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATION
      
111.   LIQUOR REGULATIONS
      
112.   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
      
115.   PAWNBROKERS
      
116.   LAWFUL GAMBLING
      
117.   RESERVED
      
118.   TAXICABS
      
119.   PUBLIC DANCES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING AND REGULATION
Section
Licenses
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Action on application
   
110.04   Carrying or posting
   
110.05   Property not to be used without license
   
110.06   Conduct of agents and employees
   
110.07   Reserved
   
110.08   Conditional licenses
Miscellaneous Business Regulations
   
110.20   Airport businesses
LICENSES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who has duly and properly applied for a license under
this title.
   LICENSEE. Any person who holds a valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked
license from the city for carrying on one of the businesses regulated and
licensed under this title.
   RESTAURANT. Any commercial establishment for the sale of food for the
consumption on its premises, any commercial establishment for the sale of beer
for consumption on its premises, any commercial establishment for the sale of
soft drinks for consumption on its premises, or, any commercial establishment
for the sale of any combination of the foregoing or operation of a business of
any type in combination with any of the foregoing.
('69 Code, § 4.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   All applications for licenses shall be made as follows:
   (A)   All such applications shall be made at the office of the City Clerk
upon forms furnished by the city, which forms must have been adopted by
resolution of the Council.
   (B)   All initial applications shall be accompanied by payment of $25 to
cover the cost of investigation as herein provided for.
   (C)   All such applications must be subscribed, sworn to, and include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Applicant's name, age and citizenship.
      (2)   Applicant's present address and length of time he has lived at that
address.
      (3)   Applicant's occupation and length of time so engaged.
      (4)   Applicant's addresses and occupations for the three years next
preceding the date of application.
      (5)   Names and addresses of applicant's employers, if any, for the three
years next preceding the date of application.
      (6)   Type of license and location of premises for which application is
made.
      (7)   At least four character references if applicant has not resided in
the city for two years next preceding the date of application.
      (8)   Such other information as the Council shall deem necessary
considering the nature of the business for which license application is made.
(Ord. 538-4, eff. 1-8-76)
   (D)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in such
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on
such application form, shall, upon discovery of such falsehood work an
automatic refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any license or
permit issued pursuant thereto, void, and of no effect to protect the applicant
from prosecution for violation of this title, or any part hereof.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall, upon receipt of each application completed in
accordance herewith, refer the application to the Worthington Police Department
which shall conduct a background investigation of the applicant(s) pursuant to
division (F) below. No application shall be approved before such investigation
has been completed.
   (F)   (1)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal
History data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator/Clerk, or other
city staff involved in the license approval process.
      (2)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance, and use of the
information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will
not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06.
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (G)   The background investigation pursuant to division (F) above shall be
required on all applicants for the following licenses within the city:
      (1)   All licenses under
Chapter 111;
      (2)   Adult oriented business licenses under
Chapter 112;
      (3)   Solicitor registration under
Chapter 113;
      (4)   Pawnbrokers under
Chapter 115; and
      (5)   Public dance under
Chapter 119.
   (H)   When an applicant has on file an application in the form hereinbefore
prescribed, subsequent applications for licenses may be made in such
abbreviated form as the Council may adopt by resolution.
('69 Code, § 4.02) (Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13)
§ 110.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current calendar year. All applications, including
proposed license periods, must be consistent with this title.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is granted, the Mayor and City Clerk shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form adopted by resolution of
the Council, upon payment of the fee specified if the license is for a term of
one calendar year, and a sum equal to the total of one-twelfth of such fee for
each month, or part thereof, remaining in the then current calendar year as to
annual fees. Only calendar year license fees will be prorated; provided also,
that proration must be specifically permitted by the section of this title
providing for the licensing of a business.
   (C)   Transfer. No license shall be transferable between persons. No license
shall be transferable to a different location without prior consent of the
Council and upon payment of the fee for a duplicate license. It is unlawful to
make any transfer in violation of this division (C).
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, in its sole discretion and
for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application, or revoke any
license. No license shall be granted to a person of questionable moral
character or business reputation. In all cases of revocation the Council shall
give notice to the licensee and grant such licensee opportunity to be heard.
Notice to be given and the exact time of hearing shall be stated in the
resolution calling for such hearing.
   (F)   Duplicate licenses. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Clerk, without action by the Council, upon licensee's affidavit
that the original has been lost, and upon payment of the fee of $2 for issuance
of the duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked DUPLICATE.
('69 Code, § 4.03)
§ 110.04 CARRYING OR POSTING.
   All transient merchants, peddlers and solicitors, and all other persons
similarly engaged who do not have a place of business within the city, shall at
all times when so engaged, carry their license on their person. All other
licensees shall post their licenses in their places of business near the
licensed activity. All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by
any officer or citizen.
('69 Code, § 4.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.05 PROPERTY NOT TO BE USED WITHOUT LICENSE.
   No person shall permit any real property owned or controlled by him to be
used without a license, for any activity or business for which a license is
required by this title.
('69 Code, § 4.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.06 CONDUCT OF AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The conduct of agents and employees of a person to whom a license or permit
is issued shall be deemed the conduct of the licensee himself.
('69 Code, § 4.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.07 RESERVED.
§ 110.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place such conditions and restriction upon
a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
('69 Code, § 4.08) (Ord. 538-4, eff. 1-8-76)
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 110.20 AIRPORT BUSINESSES.
   No person, organization, partnership, corporation or firm shall conduct an
aeronautical business on the airport or establish a place of business for a
non-aviation concern on the airport without the consent of the Airport Advisory
Commission and the City Council.
(Ord. 816, passed 8-28-95)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 111: LIQUOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Evacuation of liquor establishments
   
111.02   Sale and consumption of wine
   
111.03   Wine on-sale license and sale of strong beer
   
111.04   Establishment of municipal liquor store and Liquor Store Fund, and
conditions of operation of such liquor store
   
111.05   Liability insurance
3.2 Malt Liquor
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License provisions
   
111.17   Provisions concerning minors
Intoxicating Liquor
   
111.29   Sunday intoxicating liquor licenses
   
111.30   Definitions
   
111.31   License required; exceptions
   
111.32   Club license
   
111.33   General regulations applying to all liquor sales
   
111.34   Permit; license fee
   
111.35   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license
On-Sale Liquor
   
111.45   Definitions
   
111.46   License required
   
111.47   Application
   
111.48   Renewal applications
   
111.49   License fees
   
111.50   Granting of licenses
   
111.51   Persons ineligible for license
   
111.52   Places ineligible for license
   
111.53   Conditions of license
   
111.54   Hours of operation
   
111.55   Public character of liquor sales
   
111.56   Restrictions on purchase or consumption
   
111.57   (Reserved)
   
111.58   Revocation
   
111.59   Enlargement, alteration or extension of premises
Cross-reference:
   Liquor in parks, see
§ 93.19
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 EVACUATION OF LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All glasses, bottles and other containers or drinking utensils of any
nature whatsoever containing even the slightest amounts of intoxicating liquor
or 3.2 malt liquor shall be removed from all counters and tables within 15
minutes after the time when such 3.2 malt liquors and intoxicating liquors may
last be sold, and no intoxicating liquor or 3.2 malt liquor shall in any way be
drunk or consumed upon the premises licensed after the expiration of said 15
minutes.
   (B)   The holder of the intoxicating liquor license or 3.2 malt liquor
license for each establishment shall be responsible for enforcing the
requirements of this section. The act or omission of any employee of the
licensee in violation of this section shall be deemed to be the act or omission
of the licensee.
   (C)   Any peace officer, health officer or properly designated officer in
the city shall be allowed to enter, inspect or search the premises of the
licensee at any reasonable time without warrant.
   (D)   Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 4.41) (Ord. 659, eff. 7-12-82)
§ 111.02 SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF WINE.
   (A)   The provisions of the city code, §§ 111.01, 111.30 through 111.34 and
111.45 through 111.59, relating to the definition of terms, licensing,
consumption, sales, conditions of bonds of licensees, hours of sale, and all
other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption of
intoxicating liquor insofar as they are applicable to wine licenses authorizing
the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume for consumption on the
licensed premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food, are adopted and
made a part of this section as if set out in full.
   (B)   No person except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent authorized
under state license, and the municipal liquor dispensary, shall directly or
indirectly deal in, sell, or keep for sale in the city any wine not exceeding
14% alcohol by volume without an on-sale wine license. An on-sale wine license
authorizes the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume, for
consumption on the licensed premises only, in conjunction with the sale of
food. An on-sale wine license may be issued only to a restaurant having
facilities for seating not fewer than 25 guests at one time. For purposes of
this section, a restaurant means an establishment, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for serving meals,
and where, in consideration of payment therefor, meals are regularly served at
tables to the general public, and which employs an adequate staff to provide
the usual and suitable service to its guests. A wine license authorizes the
sale of wine on all days of the week under the hours of sale as established in
state statutes.
   (C)   Every application for on-sale wine license shall comply with and
follow the procedures for application of an on-sale liquor license as stated in
§§ 111.45 through 111.59.
   (D)   The annual fee for a wine license shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.
   (E)   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year except that if
the application is made during the license year, a license may be issued for
the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with any unexpired fraction of a
month being counted as one month. Every license shall expire on the first day
of July.
   (F)   No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by statute,
ordinance, or code provision.
   (G)   The rules and procedures governing the wine licenses shall be the same
as those governing on-sale liquor licenses, §§ 111.50 through 111.52.
   (H)   The rules and procedures governing the conditions of wine licenses
shall be the same as those governing on-sale liquor licenses, § 111.53.
('69 Code, § 4.50) (Ord. 647, eff. 3-8-82; Am. Ord. 779, passed 7-27-92)
§ 111.03 WINE ON-SALE LICENSE AND SALE OF STRONG BEER.
   A holder of an on-sale wine license, who is also licensed to sell 3.2 beer
on-sale and whose gross receipts are 60% attributable to the sale of food, may
sell strong beer at on-sale without an additional license, with no additional
fee.
(Ord. 958, passed 1-12-04)
§ 111.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORE AND LIQUOR STORE FUND, AND
CONDITIONS OF OPERATION OF SUCH LIQUOR STORE.
   (A)   Establishment. A municipal liquor store is hereby established to be
operated within the city for the sale of alcoholic beverages to be removed from
the premises. The store shall be located at such place as the Council shall
determine and may be either leased or owned by the municipality. It shall be
operated by a person known as the manager who shall be selected by the City
Administrator. Said manager shall have full charge of the operation of the
liquor store and shall have authority to purchase supplies as are necessary and
to employ such additional help as he may need. No minor person shall be
employed in the municipal liquor store.
   (B)   Municipal Liquor Store Fund.  A Liquor Store Fund is hereby created
into which all revenues received from the operation of the store shall be paid
and from which all operating expenses shall be paid. Any surplus accumulating
in the fund may be transferred to the general fund by resolution of the Council
and expended for any municipal purpose.
   (C)   The municipal liquor store may sell such products as may be allowed by
state law, including those allowed pursuant to M.S. § 340A.412.
(Ord. 1046, passed 10-10-11)
§ 111.05 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Annual beer licensees must have insurance if required by state law. Those
annual beer licensees which are required to purchase liquor liability
insurance; all temporary beer licensees; and all intoxicating liquor licensees
shall be required to purchase liquor liability insurance in a minimum amount to
be set from time-to-time by resolution of the City Council. If insurance is
required either by state law or by the Worthington City Code, prior to the
issuance of the license under this section, the applicant shall file proof of
such financial responsibility as may be required by state law and the city code
with the City Clerk and which shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
The insurer issuing such liability insurance policy shall be duly licensed to
do business in the State of Minnesota as required by state law. The liability
insurance policy shall specifically provide for the payment by the insurance
company on behalf of the insured of all sums which the insured shall become
obliged to pay by reason of liability imposed upon the insured by law for
injuries or damage to persons other than employees, including the liability
imposed upon the insured by reason of any Minnesota Statute. Such liability
insurance policy shall further provide that no cancellation, for any cause
other than nonpayment of premium, can be made by either the insured or insurer
unless the canceling patty has first given 30 days’ notice in writing to the
issuing authority of intent to cancel the policy. Further, it shall provide
that no payment of any claim by the insurance company shall, in any manner,
decrease the coverage provided with respect to any other claim or claims
brought against the insured or company thereafter. Such policy shall be
conditioned that the insurer shall pay, to the extent of the principal amount
of the policy, any damages for death or injury caused by, or resulting from the
violation of any law relating to the businesses for which such license has been
granted.
(Ord. 1047, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 1182, passed 6-27-22)
Penalty, see § 10.99.
3.2 MALT LIQUOR
§ 111.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLUB. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 7.
   OFF-SALE. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 20.
   ON-SALE. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 21.
   3.2 MALT LIQUOR. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 39.
§ 111.16 LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall sell 3.2 malt liquor without first having obtained a
license therefor from the city. All applications for licenses shall be made
upon forms approved by the City Council. On-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses will
only be issued to drugstores, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and
establishments used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the
incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks. (M.S. § 340A.411, Subd. 1).
   (B)   Temporary licenses and annual on-sale, off-sale and wholesale license
fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Annual licenses shall be issued for a period of one year commencing on
January 1. Provided, however, that if application is later made, a pro rata fee
shall be charged for issuance of the license.
   (D)   Temporary licenses shall be issued for a period of time less than one
year and shall be issued only to a club or charitable, religious, or non-profit
organization and shall be issued subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A deposit in an amount to be set from time to time by resolution of
the City Council must be submitted to the City Clerk with the application. The
deposit shall be returned to the applicant within 30 days following the
termination of the temporary license if no damage to person or property has
occurred. Damage to property shall include but not be limited to littering of
premises. If personal or property damage occurs, the deposit may be used for
reimbursement of damages including but not limited to cleaning expenses. Prior
to the use of the deposit, notice will be sent to the applicant informing
applicant of the damage and proposed use of the deposit. If so requested in
writing within ten days, the applicant is entitled to a hearing before the City
Council at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting following the
request. Following said hearing the City Council shall decide what portion, if
any, of the deposit will be returned to the applicant/licensee.
      (2)   Service of 3.2 malt liquor by a temporary licensee shall be limited
to plastic and/or paper containers.
      (3)   The days and hours of each temporary license shall be determined
and set on an individual basis by the City Council after appropriate
investigation and based upon considerations which may include but shall not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   The proposed location;
         (b)   The support or opposition of property owners and/or residents
within 1,000 feet of the proposed location;
         (c)   The character of the organization or club that makes
application; and
         (d)   The purpose for which the license is sought.
      (4)   The person making application on behalf of a club or organization
must be a local resident and his or her relationship to the club or
organization fully set forth in the application.
      (5)   No more than two temporary licenses shall be issued to any
organization or club in any calendar year.
   (E)   On-sale and temporary licenses shall be granted only to applicants
whose places of business or proposed place of sale, wherein their products will
be sold, are situated in areas other than R-1, Single Family Residence
District; R-2, Two Family Residence District; and R-4, Multiple-Family
Residence District.
('69 Code, § 4.26, Subd. 2) (Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 PROVISIONS CONCERNING MINORS.
   Minnesota Statutes § 340A.503, as it may be amended from time to time, is
hereby adopted by reference.
Penalty, see § 10.99
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 111.29 SUNDAY INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSES.
   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses were authorized by voter
approval at the November 8, 2016 general election. Sunday on-sale intoxicating
liquor licenses may be issued only to those establishments which hold an
intoxicating liquor license. All state and local laws which apply to
intoxicating liquor licenses shall apply to Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses. The maximum fee for this license, which shall be established by the
Council under the provisions of §
111.49, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1103, passed 12-27-16)
§ 111.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLUB. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 7.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 14.
   OFF-SALE. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 20.
   ON-SALE. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 21.
   PACKAGE or ORIGINAL PACKAGE. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 22.
   SALE and SELL and SOLD. All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
intoxicating liquor, including such furnishing in violation or evasion of law.
('69 Code, § 4.27, Subd. 1)
§ 111.31 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to manufacture or sell liquor, or to
take, receive, solicit or place any order for intoxicating liquor or to have
liquor in possession for sale, except when duly licensed to do so or as a
transaction with or for the municipal liquor dispensary. This division shall
not apply to the natural fermented or fruit juices in the home for family use.
The only licenses to be issued hereunder shall be on-sale liquor licenses to
persons for liquor sales within an establishment defined herein as a hotel,
motel, restaurant, bowling center, brewery, brewpub or club, and then only to
such applicants as qualified for on-sale licenses as herein further defined.
Such licenses shall not be effective until approved together with the bond by
the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   The prohibition herein shall not apply to possession or handling for
sale or otherwise of sacramental wine or any representative of any religious
order or for use in connection with a legitimate religious ceremony, nor to
such potable liquors as are prescribed by licensed physicians and dentists for
therapeutic purposes, nor to industrial alcohol and its compounds not prepared
or used for beverage purposes.
('69 Code, § 4.27, Subd. 2) (Am. Ord. 1124, passed 10-22-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.32 CLUB LICENSE.
   No club shall make any sales of liquor without first having obtained a
license from the city. The Council may, in its discretion, issue a club license
for the on-sale of liquor under and pursuant to the provisions of this section,
but all definitions and regulations set forth in this subchapter shall apply.
   (A)   Application.  Any club desiring such a license from the city shall
file with the City Clerk a verified application including, but not limited to,
the following information:
      (1)   The name of the club;
      (2)   The date of incorporation;
      (3)   The building or space in the building wherein the club rooms are
maintained;
      (4)   The length of time that the club rooms have been maintained;
      (5)   Whether said club rooms are owned or leased and if leased, the name
of the lessor;
      (6)   A description of the premises where said intoxicating liquors shall
be sold;
      (7)   The purposes for which said club was organized and now exists;
      (8)   Whether or not said club has ever been convicted of any crime and
if so, the nature and date thereof;
      (9)   The names and addresses of the present officers of the club; and,
      (10) The names and addresses of the Executive Board or Committee which
will be in direct charge of liquor operations.
   (B)   License fee. The annual license fee for a club license shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Bond and insurance. As a condition to the final granting of a club
license, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a bond with a corporate
surety to be approved by the city in the sum of $5,000 or in lieu thereof cash
or United States Government Bonds in such sum. In lieu of such corporate or
cash bond, the applicant may file with the Clerk a liability insurance policy
in the amount of $10,000 coverage for one person and $20,000 coverage for more
than one person and shall specifically provide for the payment by the insurance
company on behalf of said licensee of all sums which the insured shall become
obligated to pay be reason of liability imposed upon him by law for injuries or
damages to persons or property, including the liability imposed upon insured by
reason of the Dram Shop Law, presently M.S. § 340A.801. Such liability
insurance policy shall further provide that no cancellation of the same for any
cause, can be made either by the insured or the insurance company without first
giving ten days notice to the city in writing of intention to cancel the same,
addressed to the City Clerk. The operation of such club without having on file
at all times a bond or liability insurance policy shall be a violation of this
section, such bond or insurance policy being an integral part of the license
issued hereunder.
   (D)   Conditions of bond. The bond as provided for herein shall be
conditioned as follows:
      (1)   That the licensee will obey the law relating to such licensed
business;
      (2)   That the licensee will pay to the city when due all taxes, license
fees, penalties and other charges provided by law;
      (3)   That in the event of any violation of the provisions of any law
relating to the retail off-sale and the retail on-sale of intoxicating liquor,
such bond or policy shall be forfeited to the city;
      (4)   That the licensee will pay to the extent of the principal amount of
such bond or policy any damages for death or injury caused by or resulting from
the violation of any provisions of law relating thereto, and in such cases
recovery under this provision may be had from the surety on this bond, or
policy, as the case may be. The amount specified in such bond or policy is
declared to be a penalty, the amount recoverable to be measured by the actual
damage; provided, however, that in no case shall such surety be liable for any
amount in excess of the penal amount of the bond or policy and,
      (5)   That all such bonds or policies shall be for the benefit of the
obligee and all persons suffering damages by reason of the breach of the
conditions thereof. In the event of the forfeiture of any such bond or policy
for violation of law, the District Court of Nobles County may forfeit the penal
sum of said bond or policy, or any part thereof, to the city as obligee in such
bond or policy.
('69 Code, § 4.27, Subd. 4) (Am. Ord. 650, eff. 4-13-82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.33 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLYING TO ALL LIQUOR SALES.
   (A)   Hours and days of liquor sales.  No sale of liquor shall be made
during the time when such sale is prohibited by state law. (Ord. 582, eff. 5-
22-78; Am. Ord. 722, passed 7-11-88)
   (B)   Consumption of liquor. It is unlawful for any person to consume
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in any public place or any street, or
in a vehicle on a street or other public ground within the city, or in a soft
drink parlor, or public place of recreation except, a restaurant, café, and
such places as are duly licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquor or intoxicating
liquor, or to permit mixing on its premises. It is unlawful for any operation
of such place of business to permit such consumption on his premises. Every
licensee shall permit any properly authorized representative of the city to
enter upon his premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting
the same to see if this section is being violated.
   (C)   Restriction. The following restrictions shall also apply.
      (1)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter an establishment
licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages or the municipal liquor store for
the purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered to him or her, any
alcoholic beverage. Persons 18, 19 and 20 years old may enter a licensed
establishment or the municipal liquor store as authorized by state law to
perform work for the establishment, to consume meals and attend social
functions that are held in a portion of the establishment where liquor is not
sold. No child under the age of 18 years may enter any establishment licensed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages or the municipal liquor store unless such
child is:
         (a)   Under the direct supervision of the child’s parent, grandparent
or legal guardian who is present with and accompanying the child;
         (b)   Under the direct supervision of another responsible adult who
has written permission from the child’s parent, grandparent, or legal guardian
which written permission is in the possession of the responsible adult; or
         (c)   Under the direct supervision of a responsible adult while
attending a social function that is held in a portion of the establishment
where liquor is not, at the time of the function, being sold.
      (2)   All premises where liquors are sold shall be open to inspection by
any police or health officer or other properly designated officer or employee
of the city at all reasonable times.
      (3)   No equipment or fixtures in a licensee's place of business shall be
owned in whole or in part by any manufacturer or wholesaler of intoxicating
liquors or 3.2 malt liquors.
      (4)   No intoxicating liquor shall be sold, furnished or delivered to any
intoxicated person, to any habitual drunkard, to any minor, or to any person to
whom sale is prohibited by state law.
      (5)   Sales by organizations holding a “club license” shall be made to
its members and their bona fide guests only.
(Ord. 538-4, eff. 1-8-76)
('69 Code, § 4.27, Subd. 5) (Am. Ord. 1050, passed 1-23-12; Am. Ord. 1074,
passed 10-28-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.34 PERMIT; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any private club or public place within the
city directly or indirectly or upon any pretense or by any device to allow the
consumption or display of intoxicating liquor, or the serving of any liquid for
the purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor, until any such private club or
public place shall have obtained a permit from the city. Such permit shall be
issued by the City Council for a period of one year to expire on March 31, next
following issuance of such permit and must be renewed annually on April 1.
Application for such permit shall be made to the City Council and such
application shall contain all information requested by said City Council.
   (B)   The annual license fee shall be established by resolution by the City
Council, and shall be paid to the city and there shall be no prorating of the
permit fee for any reason. (Ord. 651, eff. 4-13-82)
   (C)   No permit issued hereunder shall be transferable with respect to the
named permit holder or location.
('69 Code, § 4.28)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.35 TEMPORARY ON-SALE INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSE.
   The city, upon application thereof, may issue temporary on-sale intoxicating
liquor licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety in
accordance with the full range of options and upon the same terms as authorized
by M.S. 340A.404, Subd. 10. The application for such a license shall be made
upon a form provided by the city which shall require information similar to
that required by §
111.32(A). A temporary license issued pursuant to this section shall expire
according to its terms. A temporary licensee shall be subject to all state and
local liquor laws. The fee for a temporary license shall be established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 1032, passed 2-22-10)
ON-SALE LIQUOR
§ 111.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BREWERY. As defined in M.S. § 340A.26, Subd. 1.
   BREWPUB. As defined in M.S. § 340A.24.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 13.
   MANUFACTURER. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 17.
   RESTAURANT. As defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 25.
   WHOLESALE. Any sale for purposes of resale.
   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling intoxicating
liquor to retail dealers.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 1) (Ord. 568, eff. 12-12-77; Am. Ord. 1124, passed 10-
22-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.46 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, except wholesalers or manufacturers, to the
extent authorized under state license, to directly or indirectly deal in, sell,
or keep for sale any intoxicating liquor for “on-sale” sale without first
having received a license to do so as provided in this section. On-sale
licenses shall be issued only to hotels, motels, restaurants, breweries,
brewpubs and bowling centers, as defined in §
111.45 and clubs as defined in §
111.30.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 2) (Ord. 568, eff. 12-12-77; Am. Ord. 1124, passed 10-
22-18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.47 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for an on-sale license to sell intoxicating liquor
shall be verified and filed with the City Clerk. ('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 3)
   (B)   In addition to the information which may be required by the State
Commissioner of Public Safety, the application shall contain the following:
      (1)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation, partnership
or other form of organization.
      (2)   If the applicant is a natural person, the following information:
         (a)   True name, place and date of birth, and street residence address
of applicant.
         (b)   Whether applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his true name, and, if so, what was such name, of names and information
concerning dates and places where used.
         (c)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the full individual name of the
applicant; in such case a copy of the certification, as required by M.S.
Chapter 333, certified by the District Court Administrator, shall be attached
to the application.
         (d)   Whether applicant is married or single. If married, true name,
place and date of birth and street residence address of applicant's present
spouse.
         (e)   Whether applicant and present spouse are registered voters and
if so, where.
         (f)   Street addresses at which applicant and present spouse have
lived during the preceding ten years.
         (g)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation
applicant and present spouse have been engaged in during the preceding ten
years.
         (h)   Names and addresses of applicant's and spouse's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding ten years.
         (i)   Whether applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
applicant shall, upon request, exhibit all discharges.
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
application. A managing partner, or partners, shall be designated. The interest
of each partner in the business shall be disclosed. A true copy of the
partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application, and if the
partnership is required to file a certificate, as to a trade name under the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 333, a copy of such certificate certified by the
District Court Administrator shall be attached to the application.
      (4)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization and is
applying for an off-sale license, the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation.
         (b)   A true copy of certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association, agreement and by-laws and, if a foreign
corporation, a certificate of authority as described in M.S. Chapter 303.
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of the premises to be licensed, giving all the information about said person as
is required of a single applicant.
      (5)   The exact legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plot plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access, parking facilities and the locations of and distances to the nearest
church building and school grounds.
      (6)   The floor number and street number where the sale of intoxicating
liquors is to be conducted and the rooms where liquor is to be sold or
consumed. An applicant for an on-sale license shall submit a floor plan of the
dining room, or dining rooms, which shall be open to the public, shall show
dimensions and shall indicate the number of persons intended to be served in
each of said rooms.
      (7)   If a permit from the Federal Government is required by the laws of
the United States, whether or not such permit has been issued, and if so
required, in what name issued and the nature of the permit.
      (8)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, building, premises, fixtures, furniture, stock in trade,, etc., and
proof of the source of such money.
      (9)   The names and addresses of all persons, other than the applicant,
who have any financial interest in the business, building, premises fixtures,
furniture, stock in trade, the nature of such, interest, amount thereof, terms
for payment or other reimbursement. This shall include, but not be limited to,
any lessees, lessors, mortgagees, mortgagors, lenders, lien holders, trustees,
trustors and persons who have co-signed notes or otherwise loaned, pledged, or
extended security for any indebtedness of the applicant.
      (10)   Whether or not all real estate and personal property taxes for the
premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid, the years for which
delinquent.
      (11)   Whenever the application for an on-sale license to sell
intoxicating liquor, or for a transfer thereof, is for premises either planned
or under construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application
shall be accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the
proposed premises to be licensed. If the plans or design are on file with the
Building Inspector, no plans need be filed with the City Clerk.
      (12)   Such other information as the Council shall require.
      (13)   A release authorizing the city to obtain all financial information
that may be appropriate.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 4)
   (C)   If the application is by a natural person, it shall be signed and
sworn to by such person; if by a corporation, by an officer thereof; if by a
partnership, by one of the partners, if by an unincorporated association, by
the manager or managing officer thereof. If the applicant is a partnership, the
application, license and bond and insurance policy shall be made and issued in
the name of all partners.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 6)
(Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.48 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for the renewal of an existing license shall be made at least
60 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and shall be made in
such abbreviated form as the Council may approve. If, in the judgment of the
Council, good and sufficient cause is shown by any applicant for his failure to
file for a renewal within the time provided, the Council may, if the other
provisions of this section are complied with, grant the application. A foreign
corporation shall file a current certificate of authority.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 5) (Ord. 568, eff. 12-12-77)
§ 111.49 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for an on-sale license shall be established by
resolution by the City Council, and all licenses shall expire on the first day
of July of each year. The fee for a license granted after the commencement of
the license year shall be pro-rated on a monthly basis, and each part of a
month shall constitute a full month. (Ord. 652, eff. 4-13-82)
   (B)   All of the license fee shall be paid upon application. All fees shall
be paid into the general fund of the city, and shall be paid in cash or by
certified check. Upon rejection of any application for a license, or upon
withdrawal of an application before approval of the issuance by the Council,
the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. Failure to pay any portion
of a fee when due shall be cause for revocation.
   (C)   When the license is for premises where the building is not ready for
occupancy, the time fixed for computation of the license fee for the initial
license period shall be the date the building is ready for occupancy.
   (D)   No part of the fee paid for any license shall be refunded except in
accordance with this section.
   (E)   The applicant shall pay a fee of $500 to the city for the background
and financial investigation of the applicant if the investigation will take
place within the state, and $10,000 if the investigation will extend outside
the state.
      (1)   This fee shall be paid prior to the commencement of any
investigation, along with the application fee.
      (2)   Out of the investigation fee, the city will charge the applicant
the actual cost of the investigation, which is non-refundable, and will return
any unused balance of the fee to the applicant, whether or not the application
is denied.
   (F)   At any time that an additional investigation is required because of a
change in the ownership or control of a corporation or because of an
enlargement, alteration, or extension of premises previously licensed, the
licensee shall pay an additional non-refundable investigating fee in the amount
of $500. Where a new application is filed as a result of incorporation by an
existing licensee and the ownership control and interest in the license are
unchanged, no additional license fee will be required.
   (G)   No part of the fee paid for any license issued under this section
shall be refunded except in the following instances upon application to the
Council within 30 days from the happening of the event. The Council may in its
judgment refund a pro-rata portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the
license, computed on a monthly basis, when operation of the licensed business
ceased because of:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe.
      (2)   The licensee's death.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 7) (Am. Ord. 932, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 1074,
passed 10-28-13)
§ 111.50 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   In order to assist the Council in investigating the facts set out in
the application, and in order to determine the eligibility of the applicant for
a license pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter and of the state law,
the Council may appoint a Liquor Committee of the Council. In the event that
such Liquor Committee is established, it shall be organized in such a manner as
the Council shall determine by resolution.
   (B)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only. Each license shall
be issued only for the premises described in the application. No license may be
transferred to another person or to another place without the approval of the
Council and without a new application having been filed.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall, within ten days after the issuance of any
license under this subchapter submit to the State Commissioner of Public
Safety, the full name and address of each person granted a license, the trade
name, the effective license date, and the date of expiration of the license. He
shall also submit to the State Commissioner of Public Safety any change of
address, transfer, cancellation or revocation of any license by the Council
during the license period.
   (D)   Where a license is granted for premises where the building is under
construction or otherwise not ready for occupancy, the City Clerk shall not
issue a license until notified by the Building Inspector that a certificate of
occupancy has been issued and the building is ready for occupancy.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 8) (Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.51 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Definitions. The term INTEREST as used in this section includes any
pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management or profits of a
retail liquor establishment, but does not include: bona fide loans; bona fide
fixed sum rental agreements; bona fide open accounts or other obligations held
with or without security arising out of the ordinary and regular course of
business of selling or leasing merchandise, fixtures or supplies to such
establishment; or an interest of 10% or less in any corporation holding a
license. A person who receives monies from time to time directly or indirectly
from a licensee, in the absence of a bona fide consideration therefor and
excluding bona fide gifts or donations, shall be deemed to have a pecuniary
interest in such retail license. In determining "bona fide" the reasonable
value of the goods or things received as consideration for any payment by the
licensee and all other facts reasonably lending to prove or disprove the
existence of any purposeful scheme or arrangement to evade the prohibitions of
this section shall be considered.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to or held by any persons:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Who is a manufacturer or wholesaler of intoxicating liquor and no
manufacturer or wholesaler shall either directly or indirectly own or control
or have any financial interest in any retail business selling intoxicating
liquor.
      (3)   Who owns an interest as defined in division (A) above, herein in
more than two establishments or businesses for which either an on-sale or off-
sale license has been granted under this subchapter. (Am. Ord. 781, passed 8-
24-92)
      (4)   Who, if a corporation, does not have a manager who is eligible
pursuant to the provisions of this section.
      (5)   An on-sale license will not be renewed if, in the case of an
individual, the licensee is not a resident of the city at the time of the date
for renewal; if, in the case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a
resident of the city at the time of the renewal; or in the case of a
corporation, if the manager is not a resident of the city at the time of the
date of renewal. The time for establishing residence within the city may, for
good cause, be extended by the Council.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 9) (Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13)
§ 111.52 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted, or renewed, for operation on any
premises, on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city are
delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   No license shall be granted for premises prohibited from holding a
license by state law.
   (C)   No license shall be issued for the premises owned by a person to whom
a license may not be granted under this subchapter, except any owner who is a
minor, alien, or a person who has been convicted of a crime other than a
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A.
   (D)   No on-sale license shall be granted to a hotel or motel, that does not
have a dining area open to the general public.
   (E)   No license shall be granted for any place for which either an on-sale
or an off-sale license has been granted. For the purpose of this division (E)
the term "place" shall be construed to mean the confines for which a license
was granted.
   (F)   No license shall be granted for any place which has a common entrance
or exit between any two establishments except that a public concourse or public
lobby shall not be construed as a common entrance or exit.
   (G)   No license shall be granted unless the licensee shall own or occupy
the licensed premises of the fair market value of $185,000, including
buildings, fixtures, and equipment, of which $35,000 of the $185,000 fair
market value shall be owned by the licensee. Land shall not be included in
determining the above fair market value. Licensees holding a valid on-sale
liquor license issued by the city prior to the adoption of this amendment shall
be exempt from the provisions of this division (G), provided, however, each
such licensee shall be subject to the following provisions: No license shall be
granted unless the licensee shall own or occupy licensed premises of the fair
market value of $75,000, including buildings, fixtures, and equipment, but
excluding land.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 10) (Ord. 568, eff. 12-12-77)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.53 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions of the
following divisions and all other sections of this subchapter and of any other
applicable provisions of the city code or state law.
   (B)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the licensed
establishment at all times.
   (C)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his place of
business and the conditions of sobriety and order in the place of business and
on the premises.
   (D)   No on-sale licensee shall sell intoxicating liquor off-sale.
   (E)   No license shall be effective beyond the space named in the license
for which it was granted.
   (F)   No intoxicating liquor shall be sold or furnished or delivered to any
intoxicated person, to any habitual drunkard, to any minor, or to any person to
whom sale is prohibited by state
law.
   (G)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter an establishment
licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages or the municipal liquor dispensary
for the purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered any alcoholic
beverage. Persons 18, 19 and 20 years old may enter a licensed establishment or
the municipal liquor dispensary as authorized by state law to perform work for
the establishment, to consume meals and attend social functions that are held
in a portion of the establishment where liquor is not sold. No child under the
age of 18 years may enter any establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic
beverages or the municipal liquor dispensary unless such child is:
      (1)   Under the direct supervision of that child's parent, grandparent or
legal guardian who is present with and accompanying the child, and
      (2)   In the case of establishments holding an on-sale intoxicating
liquor or 3.2 malt liquor license, the child may only attend social functions
that are held in the portion of the establishment where liquor is not sold.
   (H)   No licensee shall keep, possess, or operate or permit the keeping,
possession, or operation of any slot machine, dice, or any gambling device or
apparatus on the licensed premises, and he shall not permit any gambling
therein.
   (I)   No licensee shall knowingly permit the licensed premises or any room
in those premises or any adjoining building directly or indirectly under his
control to be used as a resort for prostitutes.
   (J)   No equipment or fixture in any licensed place shall be owned in whole
or in part by any manufacturer or distiller of intoxicating liquor except such
as shall be expressly permitted by state law.
   (K)   Any police officer, Building Inspector, or any properly designated
officer or employee of the city shall have the unqualified right to enter and
inspect the premises of the licensee during business hours.
   (L)   No licensee shall sell, offer for sale, or keep for sale, intoxicating
liquors in any original package which has been refilled or partly refilled. No
licensee shall directly or through any other person dilute or in any manner
tamper with the contents of any original package so as to change its
composition or alcoholic content while in the original package. Possession on
the premises by the licensee of any intoxicating liquor in the original package
differing in composition or alcoholic content in the liquor when received from
the manufacturer or wholesaler from whom it was purchased, shall be prima facie
evidence that the contents of the original package have been diluted, changed
or tampered with.
   (M) No licensee shall apply for or possess a Federal Wholesale Liquor
Dealer's special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
   (N)   No licensee shall keep ethyl alcohol or neutral spirits on any
licensed premises or permit their use on the premises as a beverage or mixed
with a beverage.
   (O)   Changes in the corporate or association officers, corporate charter,
articles of incorporation, bylaws, or partnership agreement, as the case may
be, shall be submitted to the City Clerk within 30 days after such changes are
made. Notwithstanding the definition of interest as given in § 111.51(A), in
the case of a corporation, the licensee shall notify the City Clerk when a
person not listed in the
application acquires an interest, which together with that of the spouse,
parent, brother, sister, or child, exceeds 5% and shall give all information
about said person as required of a person pursuant to the provisions of §
111.47(B)(3), of this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 11) (Ord. 568, eff. 12-12-77)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.54 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No on-sale sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made during the time when
such sale is prohibited by state law.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 12) (Ord. 582, eff. 5-22-78; Am. Ord. 722, passed 7-
11-88)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.55 PUBLIC CHARACTER OF LIQUOR SALES.
   No sale of intoxicating liquor shall be made to or in guest rooms of hotels,
unless the rules of such hotel provide for the service of meals in guest rooms;
nor unless the sale of such intoxicating liquor is made in the manner on-sales
are required to be made; nor unless such sale accompanies and is incident to
the regular service of meals to guests therein; nor unless the rules of such
hotel and the description, location and number of such guest rooms are fully
set out in the application for a license.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.56 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to give, sell, procure or purchase
intoxicating liquor to or for any person to whom the sale of intoxicating
liquor is forbidden by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to mix or prepare intoxicating liquor
for consumption, or consume, in any public place not licensed in accordance
with the provisions of the city code and the state.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 14)
§ 111.57 (RESERVED).
§ 111.58 REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend, revoke or impose a civil penalty against any liquor
license holder for the violation of any provisions or conditions of the City
Code or of state law or federal law regulating intoxicating liquor and shall
revoke such license for any willful violation which, under the laws of the
state, is grounds for mandatory revocation, and shall revoke for failure to
keep the insurance required by this subchapter in full force and effect.
Licensee shall be entitled to a hearing in accordance with the law.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 16)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.59 ENLARGEMENT, ALTERATION OR EXTENSION OF PREMISES.
   Proposed enlargement, alteration or extension of premises previously
licensed shall be reported to the Council at or before the time application is
made for a building permit for any such change and the licensee shall also give
such information as is required by the city code.
('69 Code, § 4.40, Subd. 17) (Ord. 459, eff. 11-2-70)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Application of regulations
   
112.04   Location restrictions
   
112.05   Operating regulations
   
112.06   Additional conditions for adult cabarets
   
112.07   Licenses; fees
   
112.08   Inspections
   
112.09   Expiration and renewal
   
112.10   Suspension
   
112.11   Revocation
   
112.12   Transfer of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
      (1)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
      (2)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      (3)   To locate adult oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches, parks and playgrounds, and other areas commonly frequented
by children;
      (4)   Prevent concentration of adult oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city; and
      (5)   To promote societal order, public health and to protect children.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult oriented materials. Similarly,
it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by
adults to adult oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny
access by distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE. An establishment that has at least 30%, or
3,000 square feet, whichever is less, of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, attics, or any portion of the
business not open to the public, or at least 30% of its merchandise on display
to the public devoted to books, magazines, films, videotape, or other media
which are characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or
relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   ADULT CABARET. An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, if such establishment excludes minors by virtue of age from all
or part of the establishment and if such dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction or
description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.
      (1)   A theater in an enclosed building, from which minors are excluded
from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity for less than 50 persons
used for presenting motion pictures, including but not limited to film and
videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to  SPECIFIED
SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (2)   Any business which presents motion pictures, from which minors are
excluded from all or part of the establishment, including films and videotapes,
having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to  SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS, for viewing on the premises,
including but not limited to private booths, viewing by means of coin operated
or other mechanical devices, and the viewing of excerpts of motion pictures
offered for sale or rent.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment, which excludes minors from all or
part of the establishment, whose major business is the provision, to customers,
of figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas while being
observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or
otherwise depicted by such customers.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place which excludes minors from all or
part of the establishment wherein coin or token operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A theater in an enclosed building, from which
minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity of
50 or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live
entertainment or motion pictures, including but not limited to film and
videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business, from which minors are excluded from all
or part of the establishment, which sells, offers to sell, or displays devices
which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business that is engaged in any of the following
activities or which utilizes any of the following business procedures or
practices:
      (1)   A business that is conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage, either
by operation of law or by the owners of such
business;
      (2)   Any business that has at least 30% or 3,000 square feet, whichever
is less, of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms,
basements, attics or any portion of the business not open to the public) or at
least 30% of its merchandise on display to the public, devoted to items,
merchandise or other material that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on material depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating
to  SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS; or
      (3)   Any other use or business defined in this section.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including genital-genital, anal-genital, or oral-genital
intercourse, whether between human beings or between a human
being and an animal.
      (2)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of the one so clothed.
      (3)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any
explicit, close-up representation of a human genital organ.
      (4)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of
a female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or
between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   YOUTH FACILITY. Any facility, or outdoor area where a substantial portion of
its use or programs are devoted to, or offered for, activities or recreation
for minors, regardless of whether such facility is public or private. Such
facilities include, but are not limited to, playgrounds, swimming pools,
libraries or day care facilities.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used, for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in
conformity with this chapter.
   (B)   No adult oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city, the laws of the
state, or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or regulated
by other statutes or ordinances, including but not limited to statutes or
ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or distribution of obscene
material generally, or the exhibition, sale or distribution of specified
materials to minors.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.04 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   During the term of this chapter, no adult oriented businesses shall be
located less than 300 feet from any residential zoning district boundary or
from the property line of a site used for residential purposes, or less than
1,000 feet from the property line of any church site, any school site, any day
care facility, or any park. In addition, no adult oriented business may be
located within 1,000 feet of another adult oriented business. For purposes of
this chapter, this distance shall be a horizontal measurement from the nearest
existing residential district boundary or the property line of any site used
for residential purposes, church site, school site, day care site, youth
facility, park site, or another adult oriented business site to the nearest
property line of the proposed adult oriented business site.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours of operation. No adult oriented business site shall be open to
the public from the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
   (B)   Off-site viewing. An establishment operating as an adult oriented
business shall prevent off-site viewing of its merchandise, which if viewed by
a minor, would be in violation of M.S. Chapter 617 or other applicable federal
or state statutes or local ordinances.
   (C)   Entrances. All entrances provided for the general public shall be
visible from a public street with the exception of emergency fire exits which
are not usable by patrons.
   (D)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including but not limited to books, magazines, photographs,
video tapes, or any other material.
   (E)   Illumination. Illumination of the premises exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
   (F)   Signs. Signs for adult oriented businesses shall comply with the
city's sign ordinance, and in addition signs for adult oriented businesses
shall not contain representational depictions of an adult nature or graphic
descriptions of the adult theme of the operation.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.06 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS FOR ADULT CABARETS.
   The following additional conditions apply to adult cabarets.
   (A)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit or
allow any dancer or other live entertainer to display specified anatomical
areas.
   (B)   No dancer, live entertainer, performer, patron or any other person
shall display specified anatomical areas in an adult cabaret.
   (C)   The owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall provide the
following information to the city concerning any persons who dance or perform
live entertainment at the adult cabaret: The person's name, home address, home
telephone number, date of birth and any aliases.
   (D)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall be under 18 years old.
   (E)   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform intended
for that purpose and which is raised at least two feet from the level of the
floor.
   (F)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall perform any dance or
live entertainment closer than ten feet to any patron.
   (G)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall fondle or caress any
patron and no patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
   (H)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any dancer, live
entertainer or performer.
   (I)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall solicit any pay or
gratuity from any patron.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.07 LICENSES; FEES.
   (A)   License required. All establishments, including any business operating
at the time this chapter becomes effective, operating or intending to operate
an adult oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license with the city.
A person is in violation of the city code if he or she operates an adult
oriented business without a valid license, issued by the city.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
      (2)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county, and local laws and codes by the Fire Marshal and
Building Official.
      (3)   Application for license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used; the names, address, phone numbers, date
of birth, of the owner, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all
employees; the name, address, and phone number of two persons, who shall be
residents of the state, and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant's, manager's, or operator's character; whether the applicant,
manager, or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a
traffic offense and, if so, complete and accurate information as to the time,
place, nature of such crime or offense including the disposition thereof; the
names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner, lessee, or
manager insofar as regarding credit which has been extended for the purposes of
constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating, or furnishing or acquiring the
premises, personal effects, equipment, or anything incident to the
establishment, maintenance and operation of the business.
      (4)   If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint
business venture, partnership, or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment, acquisition, maintenance,
and furnishings of said business and, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses, and dates of birth of all officers, general managers, members of the
board of directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for the
acquisition, maintenance, operation, or furnishing of the establishment
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in said operation.
      (5)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements, and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition, or maintenance of the
enterprise.
   (C)   Issuance or renewal of license. The City Administrator shall issue or
renew a license to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application
unless the Administrator denies the application, having found one or more of
the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in his payment to the city, county, or
state of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him or her or
imposed upon him or her in relation to an adult oriented business, or if the
state prohibits the issuance of such a license because of taxes, fees, fines,
or penalties assessed against him or her.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   The premises to be used for the adult oriented business have not
been approved by the Fire Marshal and the Building Official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances; such inspections shall be
completed within 30 days from the date the application was submitted, provided
that the application contains all of the information required by this chapter.
If the application is deficient, the inspections shall be completed within 30
days from the date the deficiency has been corrected.
      (5)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   (D)   Notice of decision on application. The City Administrator shall send
notice of a decision on the application within the 30-day review period to the
applicant by mail postage prepaid at the address on the application. The notice
shall state whether the City Administrator finds the application acceptable and
a license is to be issued or renewed, or whether the application is denied and
the reasons for the denial.
   (E)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the adult oriented business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
   (F)   Council action. If an application is denied by the City Administrator,
the applicant may appeal to the City Council by filing a written notice of
appeal within ten days after the notice of decision. Any such appeal must be
acted on by the Council within 30 days after the notice of appeal is received
by the city. If the Council denies the appeal, the application is denied.
Reapplication may be pursued according to the provisions of this chapter. If
Council determines to grant the appeal, the Council shall instruct the City
Administrator to issue the license.
   (G)   Correction of deficiency. If the application is denied by the City
Administrator, the applicant may correct any deficiency and the Administrator
shall act on the corrected application within 30 days from the date the
deficiency has been corrected. If the determination of deficiency has been
appealed to the City Council the Council shall act on the corrected application
within 30 days from the date that the city receives the appeal.
   (H)   Appeals. If the City Council denies the appeal, the applicant may
commence an action in state or federal court within 15 days after notification
by the city of the denial for the purpose of determining whether the city acted
properly. The applicant may not commence doing business unless the action is
concluded in his favor.
   (I)   Notification. Any notification required to be sent by the city is
deemed completed when mailed by first class mail to the applicant or licensee
at the address listed in the application.
   (J)   Fees. Fees shall be set by City Council resolution.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13)
§ 112.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Access. An applicant or license holder shall permit representatives of
the Police Department, Fire Department, and Building Inspection Division, to
inspect the premises of a adult oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates a adult oriented
business or his agent or employee commits an offense if she or he refuses to
permit a lawful inspection of the premises by representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Department, and Building Inspection Division at any time
it is occupied or open for business. Refusal to permit inspections may result
in the suspension of the license as provided in §
112.10.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.09 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
112.07(A)(1). Application for renewal should be made at least 60 days before
the expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration
date, the license may expire, depending on the timing of the application and
possible appeals as described §
112.07.
   (B)   When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
§ 112.10 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Cause of suspension. The City Council may suspend a license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of
a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Engaged in the use or sale of alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances while on the adult oriented business premises other than at an adult
hotel or motel.
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult oriented
business premises.
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Notice. A suspension by the City Council shall be proceeded by written
notice to the licensee and a hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
   (C)   Appeal. If the City Council suspends a license, the licensee may
commence an action in state or federal court within 15 days after notification
by the city of the suspension for purposes of determining whether the City
Council acted properly. The licensee may continue doing business until the
conclusion of the action.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
§ 112.11 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Causes of revocation. The City Council may revoke a license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises.
      (6)   If a cause of suspension in §
112.10 occurs within 36 months after suspension of a license.
   (B)   Appeals. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   (C)   Exceptions. Division (A)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
   (D)   Granting a license after revocation. When the city revokes a license,
the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued
an adult oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division (A)(5) above and applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required has elapsed.
   (E)   Notice. A revocation by the City Council shall be by written notice to
the licensee and a hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days notice of
the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges
against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee personally, or
by leaving the same at the licensed premises with the person in charge thereof.
   (F)   Appeal. If the City Council revokes a license, the license may
commence an action in state or federal court within 15 days after notification
by the city of the revocation for purposes of determining whether the City
Council acted properly. The licensee may continue doing business until the
conclusion of the action.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13)
§ 112.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer this license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor, as provided in § 10.99. In addition, the city may
enforce any provision of this chapter by mandamus, injunction, or any other
appropriate civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 828, passed 2-10-97)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   Transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Insurance required
   
113.09   Prohibited sales
   
113.10   Prohibited activities
   
113.11   Exclusion by placard
   
113.12   Posting requirements
   
113.13   Mobile food units (MFUs)
 
   
113.99   Penalties
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARMERS’ MARKET. An association or group of local producers who assemble at
a defined public location for the primary purpose of selling non-animal
agricultural, handmade, or home-crafted products directly to consumers.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A MOBILE FOOD UNIT as defined in M.S. § 157.15,
Subdivision 9.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term peddler shall mean the same as the term
"hawker."
   PERSON. Any individual, sole proprietorship, co-partnership or partnership
of any kind, limited liability company, corporation or unincorporated
association, whether functioning or acting as principal or agent.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, using "cold
calls" or preapproved appointments, for the purpose of obtaining or attempting
to obtain orders for goods, wares, products, merchandise, other personal
property or services of which he or she may be carrying or transporting samples
or that may be described in a catalog or by other means and for which delivery
or performance shall occur at a later time. The absence of samples or catalogs
shall not remove a person from the scope of this provision if the actual
purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or attempt to obtain orders as
discussed above. The term shall mean the same as the term "canvasser."
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who engages in or transacts any temporary and
transient business in the city who does not remain or intend to remain in any
one location for more than 21 consecutive days selling goods, wares and
merchandise and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business, hires,
leases, occupies or uses a building, structure, vacant lot or railroad car for
the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise. It shall be
conclusively presumed that a TRANSIENT MERCHANT includes any person who is not
a resident who is proposing to sell goods, wares, or other merchandise claiming
it to be stock to be closed out at reduced prices. The term TRANSIENT MERCHANT
does not include a seller or exhibitor in a firearms or coin collector show
involving two or more sellers or exhibitors.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1073, passed 8-12-13; Am. Ord. 1080, passed
7-14-14; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20)
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS ,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04)
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler, mobile food unit
or a transient merchant without first having obtained a license from the city.
Solicitors need not be licensed but are still required to register pursuant to
§
113.07.
   (B)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler, mobile food unit or transient merchant shall be made at least 14
regular business days before the applicant desires to begin conducting
business. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   Proposed place of business;
      (3)   The kind of business proposed to be conducted;
      (4)   The length of time desired to do business, number of days
conducting business in the city (maximum 21 consecutive days, unless an annual
license is obtained from the city);
      (5)   Applicant’s residence and business address along with telephone
numbers for a prior two-year period;
      (6)   Type of business applicant was engaged in during previous two
years;
      (7)   Name and address of salesperson who will conduct the sale. No such
sale shall be conducted in the name of a person other than the bona fide owner
of the merchandise;
      (8)   An itemized list of merchandise to be offered for sale, with a
description including the serial number if any, the owner’s actual cost and a
designation by number corresponding with a number to be affixed to each item by
a tag until the item is sold, shall be attached to the application; this shall
not apply to mobile food units licensed by the Department of Health.
      (9)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant can
be reached while conducting business within the city, including the location
where a transient merchant or mobile food unit intends to set up business;
      (10)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (11)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant or mobile food unit;
      (12)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (13)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (C)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city's fee schedule as adopted from
time to time by a resolution passed by the City Council.
   (D)   Procedure. An application shall be determined to be complete only if
all required information is provided to the City Clerk, who within two regular
business days of receipt shall determine if the application is complete. If the
City Clerk determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk shall
inform the applicant of the required necessary information which is missing.
Upon receipt of the completed application, bond or certificate of insurance and
the license fee, the City Clerk shall then issue the license based upon the
application.
   (E)   Duration. All licenses granted under this chapter shall be valid only
during the time period indicated on the license.
   (F)   Display of license. A "door-to-door" peddler shall be required to have
license from the city on his or her person and shall display it when requested
by the homeowner. A mobile food unit shall have displayed the license from the
City of Worthington when in operation.
    (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person, whether at a farmers’
market or otherwise, to sell or to take orders for any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on a farm or in a garden within a 100-mile radius of the
City of Worthington.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place when such activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption does not apply if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
(Am. Ord. 931, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1073,
passed 8-12-13; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 1180, passed 6-13-22)
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (B)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
mobile food unit or transient merchant.
   (C)   The applicant is conclusively presumed to have a bad business
reputation if evidence exists that three or more complaints against the
applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the Minnesota Attorney General's
Office or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency within the
preceding 12 months or three such complaints filed against the applicant within
the preceding five years.
(Am. Ord. 931, passed 12-26-01; Am. Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1074,
passed 10-28-13; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20)
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked by the City Council upon receipt of evidence of any of the following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity; or
      (3)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each such authorized person's authority
to conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the
licensee whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If the City Council determines that imminent harm to the
health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a peddler,
mobile food unit or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City
Council may immediately suspend the person's license and be subject to the
right of the licensee to request a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in
division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1074, passed 10-28-13; Am. Ord. 1165,
passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04)
Penalty, see § 113.99
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   All operators of farmers’ markets, solicitors, and any person exempt from
the licensing requirements of this chapter under §
113.03, shall be required to register with the city. Registration shall be made
on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall be
required. Operators of farmers’ markets shall supply a list of vendors to the
City Clerk upon application and update as changes are made. Immediately upon
completion of the registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the
registrant a certificate of registration as proof of the registration.
Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1073, passed 8-12-13) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
      All peddlers, transient merchants and mobile food units must have a
certificate of insurance for the amount determined by the city before being
granted a license.
(Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20)
§ 113.09 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   No transient merchant, mobile food unit or seller, except an
authorized manufacturer's representative, shall offer for sale at a flea market
any of the following items:
      (1)   Infant formula or other food intended primarily for consumption by
a child under the age of two years; and
      (2)   Over-the-counter drugs, medical devices and cosmetics.
   (B)   Neither the farmers’ market operators or vendors may display, sell,
barter, trade or give away any live animals as the term ANIMAL is defined in §
90.01.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1073, passed 8-12-13; Am. Ord. 1165, passed
11-9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, mobile food unit, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct
business in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, using an
amplified sound system or by any other noise that would violate the performance
standards set forth in §
155.044;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in such a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration and identification
when requested or using the license or registration of another person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, mobile food
unit, solicitor or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of
the city solely based on the city having issued a license or certificate of
registration to that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, mobile food unit, solicitor or transient merchant, unless
invited to do so by the property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of
another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, mobile food unit,
solicitor or transient merchant if the property is marked with a sign or
placard at least four inches long and four inches wide with print of at least
48 point in size stating “No Peddlers, Mobile Food Units, Solicitors or
Transient Merchants are allowed” or “Peddlers, Mobile Food Units, Solicitors
and Transient Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable statement. No person
other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise
tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 POSTING REQUIREMENTS.
   A peddler, mobile food unit or transient merchant shall post or have
available for inspection any license or certificate of exemption issued
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 MOBILE FOOD UNITS (MFUS).
   Mobile food units are required to meet the additional following standards:
   (A)   MFU licenses beyond 21 days in the same location per year require
approval from the city. The City Clerk shall be the one to grant approval for
such licenses.
   (B)   Licenses beyond 21 days shall be issued to operate on an annual basis
from January 1 to December 31 each year.
   (C)   MFUs must be licensed by the Minnesota Department of Health. Evidence
of the state license must be provided to the city as part of the local license
application.
   (D)   With the exception of MFUs serving city approved events or special
events for public or institutional uses, MFUs operations are limited to the
fairgrounds, business and industrial districts within the city. MFUs catering
to a private event that is not open to the public are also exempt from this
requirement.
   (E)   MFUs must be located on private property and the applicant must obtain
and provide written consent from the owner to the city at time of application
for a license. However, MFU's may be located in a public park with approval
from the city, or public right-of-way during a city approved event. They may
also be located on the public right-of-way on the east side of 2nd Avenue bound
from 9th Street to 10th Street and on the south side of 10th Street bound by
1st and 2nd Avenue during farmer's markets and other events hosted at the 10th
Street Plaza. MFU's may not occupy more than two parking spaces or be left on
public right-of-way overnight unless part of a city approved event.
   (F)   MFU sites shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner and shall adhere
to the following site and operational requirements:
      (1)   MFU's are responsible for the proper disposal of waste and trash
associated with the operation. MFU's shall provide trash/recycling collection
and shall remove all generated waste and trash from their approved location at
the end of each day or as needed to maintain the public health and safety. No
liquid waste or grease is to be disposed of in tree pits, storm drains,
sanitary sewers, onto the sidewalks, streets or other public or private space.
A written waste management plan indicating plans for waste handling,
sanitation, litter collection/prevention, recycling, and daily cleanup
procedures shall be submitted with the application for a license.
      (2)   MFUs shall not be connected to public utilities unless expressly
authorized by the city.
      (3)   MFUs shall be located on an asphalt or concrete surface.
      (4)   MFUs may not be located within 200 feet of existing restaurants or
coffee shops, as measured from the MFU to the food service building. However,
MFU's may be located closer than 200 feet when part of a city approved event or
with written permission of the owner of the restaurant or coffee shop within
200 feet.
      (5)   MFU's must not operate on a lot without hard-surfaced parking
spaces of at least six spaces that can be used by the general public unless
part of a city approved event or fair.
      (6)   Only one A-frame sign no more than eight square feet per side is
permitted outside of the MFU.
      (7)   MFUs must close during adverse weather conditions when shelter is
not provided.
      (8)   MFU applicants must provide evidence of liability insurance in
which the city is named an additional insured which shall provide a limit of
coverage as established from time-to-time by the City Council for both bodily
injury and for property damage. Written notice of cancellation of such
insurance must be given to the city not less than 30 days prior to actual
cancellation.
(Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20; Am. Ord. 1180, passed 6-13-22)
§ 113.99 PENALTIES.
   In addition to being grounds for a license suspension or revocation, any
license holder violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and their license will be suspended immediately at the time of
any arrest or citation for violating this chapter. Each day a violation
continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 974, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1165, passed 11-9-20)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
114.01   Intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Franchise required
   
114.04   Term of franchise; territory
   
114.05   Jurisdiction
   
114.06   Franchise non-transferable
   
114.07   Nonexclusive franchise
   
114.08   Multiple franchises
   
114.09   Franchise applications
   
114.10   Franchise renewal
   
114.11   Franchise fee
   
114.12   City's right to purchase system
   
114.13   Emergency use
   
114.14   Geographical coverage
   
114.15   Consumer protection and service standards
   
114.16   Rate regulation
   
114.17   Design and construction requirements
   
114.18   Technical standards
   
114.19   Trimming of trees
   
114.20   Use of grantee facilities
   
114.21   Programming decisions
   
114.22   Indemnification
   
114.23   Insurance
   
114.24   Records required and grantor's right to inspect
   
114.25   Annual reports
   
114.26   Franchise violation
   
114.27   Force majeure; grantee's inability to perform
   
114.28   Abandonment or removal of franchise property
   
114.29   Extended operation and continuity of services
   
114.30   Receivership and foreclosure
   
114.31   Rights reserved to grantor
   
114.32   Rights of individuals
   
114.33   Conflicts
   
114.34   Severability
§ 114.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to applicable laws, is authorized to grant one or
more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct
cable television systems within the city limits.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the development of cable television
systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact upon the residents
of the city. Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated
with cable television, the City Council further finds that the public
convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by establishing
regulatory powers which should be vested in the city or such persons as the
city shall designate. It is the intent of this chapter and subsequent
amendments to provide for and specify the means to attain the best possible
cable television service to the public and any franchises issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral part
thereof.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meaning.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. Any law, statute, charter, ordinance, code provisions,
rule, regulation, code, license, certificate, franchise, permit, writ, ruling,
award, executive order, directive, requirement, injunction (whether temporary,
preliminary or permanent), judgment, decree or other order issued, executed,
entered or deemed applicable by any governmental authority.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as defined herein shall
not be inconsistent with 47 USC 543(b)(7)(1993).
   CABLE ACT. Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. No. 98-549, 98
Stat. 2779 (1984) (codified at 47 USC 521-611 (1982 & Supp. V 1987)) as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub.
L. 102-385 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-458 and as the
same may, from time to time, be amended.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming, or
other programming service; and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM, SYSTEM, or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of
a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception
and control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a
community, but such term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public rights-
of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 USC 201-226, except that such facility shall be
considered a cable system (other than for purposes of 47 USC 541) to the extent
such facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; unless the extent of such use is solely to provide interactive on-
demand services;
      (4)   An open video system that complies with Section 653 of the Cable
Act; or
      (5)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel as defined by the Federal Communications Commission.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city,
whether such authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license,
resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the
construction or operation of a cable system over publicly owned rights-of-way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter containing
the specific provisions of the franchise granted, including references,
specifications, requirements and other related matters.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city or
any other governmental authority on a grantee or cable subscriber, or both,
solely because of their status as such. The term does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services but not including a tax, fee, or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs which are required by the franchise agreement to be
incurred by the grantee for PEG Access Facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of
the franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties or liquidated damages;
      (4)   Any fee imposed under USC Title 17.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY. Any court or other federal, state, county, municipal
or other governmental department, commission, board, agency or instrumentality.
   GRANTEE. Any person receiving a franchise pursuant to this chapter and its
agents, officers, designees, or any lawful successor, transferee or assignee.
   GRANTOR or CITY. The City of Worthington, Minnesota as represented by the
Council. The City Administrator shall be responsible for the continuing
administration of the franchise.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all revenue derived by the grantee from the or in
connection with the operation of the cable system to provide cable service in
the city. Gross revenues shall include, by way of example but not limitation,
revenues from basic cable service, all cable service fees, premium, pay-per-
view, pay television, franchise fees, late fees, guides, home shopping revenue,
installation and reconnection fees, upgrade and downgrade fees, advertising
revenue, converter rental fees and lockout device fees. GROSS REVENUE shall not
include FCC fee, PEG fees, refundable deposits, bad debt, investment income,
nor any taxes, fees or assessments of general applicability imposed or assessed
by any governmental entity. A franchise fee is not such a tax, fee or
assessment. The city acknowledges and accepts that grantee shall maintain its
books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
   INITIAL SERVICE AREA. The area of the city which will receive cable service
initially, as set forth in any franchise agreement.
   INSTALLATION. The connection of the system from feeder cable to the point of
connectivity.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the city are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must
include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the system.
   PERSON. Any individual or any association, firm, general partnership,
limited partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, trust, corporation,
limited liability company or other legally recognized entity, private or
public, whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
   PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES or PEG ACCESS
FACILITIES.
      (1)   Channel capacity designated for public, educational or governmental
use; and
      (2)   Facilities and equipment for the use of such channel capacity.
   SECTION. Any section, subsection or provision of this chapter.
   SERVICE AREA or FRANCHISE AREA. The entire geographic area within the
city as it is now constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless
otherwise specified in the franchise agreement.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   SHALL and WILL. Are mandatory.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STREET or PUBLICLY OWNED RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been
dedicated to the public or are hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained
under public authority or by others and located within the city limits:
streets, roadways, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements,
rights-of-way and similar public property and areas that the grantor shall
permit to be included within the definition of STREET from time to time.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who lawfully receives cable service via the cable
system. In the case of multiple office buildings or multiple dwelling units,
the SUBSCRIBER means each lessee, tenant or occupant not the building owner.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97; Am. Ord. 1052, passed 6-11-12)
§ 114.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, to
construct, install or operate a cable television system in the city in, on,
over, under, upon, along or across any street or publicly owned right-of-way
without a franchise properly granted pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   A franchise granted by the city under the provisions of this chapter
shall encompass the following purposes:
      (1)   To engage in the business of providing cable service, and such
other lawful services as may be permitted by the city, to subscribers within
the service area.
      (2)   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct,
replace, maintain and retain cables, lines, related electronic equipment,
supporting structures, appurtenances and other property in connection with the
operation of a cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across streets
within the service area.
      (3)   To maintain and operate said franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification and distribution of
television and radio signals for the delivery of cable services.
      (4)   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the franchise
agreement.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter relieves a person from liability
arising out of failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring grantee's
facilities while performing work connected with grading, regarding or changing
the line of a street or public place or with the construction or reconstruction
of a sewer or water system.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.04 TERM OF FRANCHISE; TERRITORY.
   (A)   A franchise granted hereunder shall be for the term established in the
franchise agreement and shall not exceed 15 years.
   (B)   A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon application by the
grantee pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and applicable laws.
   (C)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be valid within
the service area.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.05 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with applicable
laws.
   (B)   This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or renewed after
the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall further apply to the
extent permitted by applicable laws to all existing franchises granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   The rights of all grantees are subject to the policing powers of the
city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and
welfare of the public. All grantees shall comply with all applicable laws
enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
   (D)   No grantee shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   This chapter and any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall
be construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the city,
state, and applicable federal laws, including the Cable Act.
   (F)   This chapter together with any franchise granted hereunder shall
comply with the state franchise standards contained in M.S. § 238.084.
   (G)   Grantee and the city shall conform to state laws and rules regarding
cable communications not later than one year after they become effective,
unless otherwise stated, and shall conform to federal laws and regulations
regarding cable communications as they become effective.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.06 FRANCHISE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   Grantee shall not voluntarily, by operation of law or otherwise, sell,
assign, transfer, lease, sublet or otherwise dispose of, in whole or in part,
the franchise and/or cable system, without the prior written consent of the
Council and then only upon such reasonable terms and conditions as allowed
under applicable laws, which consent shall not be unreasonably denied or
delayed. Failure to comply with this section shall be grounds for termination
of grantee's franchise pursuant to § 114.26 hereof and the applicable
provisions of any franchise granted hereunder.
   (B)   Without limiting the nature of the events requiring the Council's
approval under this section, the following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise and/or cable system requiring
compliance with this section:
      (1)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of
grantee's assets or the assets comprising the cable system to any person;
      (2)   The merger of the grantee or any of its parents with or into
another person (including the merger of grantee or any parent with or into any
parent or subsidiary corporation or other person);
      (3)   The consolidation of the grantee or any of its parents with any
other person;
      (4)   The creation of a subsidiary corporation or other entity to which
the franchise and/or cable system is transferred or assigned;
      (5)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in grantee or any of its
parents by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other
equity owners so as to create a new controlling interest in grantee; and
      (6)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by grantee or any of its parents so as to create a new
controlling interest in grantee. The term CONTROLLING INTEREST as used herein
is not limited to majority equity ownership of the grantee, but also includes
actual working control over the grantee, any parent of grantee and/or the
system in whatever manner exercised.
   (C)   Grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any
other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the property and assets
comprising the cable system of the grantee or upon the termination of any lease
or interest covering all or a substantial part of said property and assets.
Such notification shall be considered by grantor as notice that a change in
control or ownership of the franchise has taken place and the provisions under
this section governing the consent of grantor to such change in control or
ownership shall apply.
   (D)   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to such
change, transfer or acquisition of control, grantor may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party, and grantee
shall assist grantor in any such inquiry. In seeking grantor's consent to any
change of ownership or control, grantee shall have the responsibility of
insuring that the transferee completes an application in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to grantor, which application shall include the
information required under this chapter and applicable laws of this chapter. An
application, acceptable to the city, shall be submitted to grantor prior to the
date of transfer. The transferee shall be required to establish to the
satisfaction of the city that it possesses the legal, technical and financial
qualifications to operate and maintain the system and comply with all franchise
requirements for the remainder of the term of the franchise. If, after
considering the legal, financial, character and technical qualities of the
transferee and determining that they are satisfactory, the Grantor finds that
such transfer is acceptable, the grantor shall permit such transfer and
assignment of the rights and obligations of such franchise as may be in the
public interest. The consent of the grantor to such transfer shall not be
unreasonably denied.
   (E)   Any financial institution having a security interest in any and all of
the property and assets of grantee as security for any loan made to grantee or
any of its affiliates for the construction and/or operation of the cable system
must notify the grantor that it or its designee satisfactory to the grantor
shall take control of and operate the cable television system, in the event of
a default in the payment or performance of the debts, liabilities or
obligations of grantee or its affiliates to such financial institution.
Further, said financial institution shall also submit a plan for such operation
of the system within 30 days of assuming such control that will insure
continued service and compliance with all franchise requirements during the
term the financial institution or its designee exercises control over the
system. The financial institution or its designee shall not exercise control
over the system for a period exceeding one year unless extended by the grantor
in its discretion and during said period of time it shall have the right to
petition the grantor to transfer the franchise to another grantee.
   (F)   In addition to the aforementioned requirements in this section, the
city and grantee shall, at all times, comply with the requirements of M.S. §
238.083 regarding the sale or transfer of a franchise and with all other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.07 NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be nonexclusive. The grantor
specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional
franchises for a cable television system as it deems appropriate subject to
applicable laws. The grantor also specifically reserves the right to operate a
municipal cable television system pursuant to applicable laws.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.08 MULTIPLE FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Grantor may grant one or more franchises for a service area. Grantor
may, in its sole discretion, limit the number of franchises granted, based
upon, but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable laws and
specific local considerations; such as:
      (1)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate multiple
coaxial cables in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility
systems, such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewage.
      (2)   The impact on the city of having multiple franchises.
      (3)   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents' property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights-of-way.
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed system for the duration of the franchise term.
   (B)   Each grantee awarded a franchise to serve the entire city shall offer
service to all residences in the city, in accordance with construction and
service schedules mutually agreed upon between grantor and grantee, and
consistent with applicable laws. Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter
shall contain terms and provisions no less burdensome nor more favorable than
those contained in any franchise already granted pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   The city may, in its sole discretion, require developers of new
residential housing with underground utilities to provide conduit to
accommodate cables for a minimum of two cable systems in accordance with the
provisions of § 114.17(D).
   (D)   Grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its own
underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in grantor's
opinion, the rights-of-way in any particular area cannot feasiblely and
reasonably accommodate additional cables.
   (E)   Any additional franchise granted by the city to provide cable service
in a part of the city in which a franchise has already been granted and where
an existing grantee is providing service shall
require the new grantee to provide service throughout its service area within a
reasonable time and in a sequence which does not discriminate against lower
income residents.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.09 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person other than the city, desiring an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall file an application with the city. A reasonable
nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by the city shall
accompany the initial application. Such application fee shall not be deemed to
be "franchise fees" within the meaning of Section 622 of the Cable Act (47 USC
542), and such payments shall not be deemed to be:
      (1)   "Payments in kind" or any involuntary payments chargeable against
the franchise fees to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant to § 114.11
hereof and applicable provisions of a franchise agreement, or
      (2)   Part of the franchise fees to be paid to the city by grantee
pursuant to § 114.11 hereof and applicable provisions of a franchise agreement.
   (B)   An application for an initial franchise for a cable television system
shall be in a form reasonably acceptable to grantor and shall contain, where
applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed service area.
      (2)   A resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field.
      (3)   A list of the general and limited partners of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the shareholders, if a corporation.
      (4)   The percentage ownership of the applicant of each of its partners,
shareholders or other equity owners;
      (5)   A list of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant
or its general partner, as applicable, together with a description of the
background of each such person;
      (6)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part,
or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (7)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by an audit or
otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city;
      (8)   Proposed construction and service schedule.
      (9)   Any additional information that the city deems applicable.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the City
Administrator shall prepare a report and make his or her recommendations
respecting such application to the City Council.
   (D)   A public hearing shall be set prior to any initial franchise grant, at
a time and date approved by the Council. Within 30 days after the close of the
hearing, the Council shall make a decision based upon the evidence received at
the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should be granted, and, if
granted subject to what conditions. The Council may grant one or more initial
franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.10 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable laws. Grantor and
grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at any time
during the term of the franchise. To the extent consistent with applicable
laws, a reasonable non-refundable renewal application fee in an amount
established by the city may be required to accompany any renewal application.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.11 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Following the issuance and acceptance of a franchise, the grantee
shall pay to the grantor a franchise fee in the amount set forth in the
franchise agreement.
   (B)   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
90 days of the close of the calendar year, certified by a financial officer of
the grantee, reflecting the total amounts of gross revenues and all payments,
and computations of the franchise fee for the previous calendar year. Upon ten
days prior written notice, grantor shall have the right to conduct an
independent audit of grantee's records. If such audit indicates a franchise fee
underpayment of 10% or more, the grantee shall assume all reasonable out-of-
pocket costs of such an audit and shall remit to grantor all applicable
franchise fees due and payable together with interest thereon at the lesser of
the maximum rate permitted by applicable laws or 18% per annum.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the grantor shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee under this chapter or any franchise agreement or for the
performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise fee payment or recomputed amount is
not made on or before the dates specified in the franchise agreement, grantee
shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge, computed from such due
date, at an annual rate equal to the lesser of the maximum rate permitted by
applicable laws or 18% per annum during the period for which payment was due.
   (E)   Franchise fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.12 CITY'S RIGHT TO PURCHASE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city shall have a right of first refusal to purchase the cable
system in the event the grantee receives a bona fide offer to purchase the
cable system from any person. BONA FIDE OFFER as used in this section means a
written offer which has been accepted by grantee, subject to the city's rights
under this chapter and any franchise agreement. The price to be paid by the
city shall be the amount provided for in the bona fide offer, including the
same terms and conditions as the bona fide offer. The city shall notify grantee
of its decision to purchase within 60 days of the city's receipt from grantee
of a copy of the written bona fide offer and such other relevant and pertinent
information as the city shall deem appropriate.
   (B)   Consistent with Section 627 of the Cable Act and all other applicable
laws, at the expiration, cancellation, revocation or termination of any
franchise agreement, the city shall have the option to purchase, condemn or
otherwise acquire and hold the cable system.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.13 EMERGENCY USE.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, grantee shall, upon request of the
city or emergency management personnel, make its cable system and related
facilities available to the city for emergency use.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.14 GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE.
   (A)   Grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable television
system to have the capability to pass every dwelling unit in the service area,
subject to any service area line extension requirements of the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, grantee shall provide cable service
to any requesting subscriber within that service area within 30 days from the
date of request, provided that the grantee is able to secure all rights-of-way
necessary to extend service to such subscriber within such 30-day period on
reasonable terms and conditions.
   (C)   No subscriber shall be refused service arbitrarily. However, for
unusual circumstances, such as a subscriber's request to locate his cable drop
underground, existence of more than 150 feet of distance from distribution
cable to connection of service to subscribers, or a density equivalent of less
than ten homes per ¼ cable mile, service may be made available on the basis of
a capital contribution in aid of construction, including cost of material,
labor and easements. For the purpose of determining the amount of capital
contribution in aid of construction to be borne by the grantee and subscribers
in the area in which service may be expanded, the grantee will contribute an
amount equal to the construction and other costs per mile, multiplied by a
fraction whose numerator equals the actual number of residences per 1320 cable-
bearing strand feet or its trunks or distribution cable, and whose denominator
equals ten residences. Subscribers who request service hereunder, will bear the
remainder of the construction and other costs on a pro rata basis. The grantee
may require that the payment of the capital contribution in aid of construction
borne by such potential subscribers be paid in advance.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.15 CONSUMER PROTECTION AND SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, grantee shall
maintain one or more customer service and bill payment offices at convenient
locations within the service area to provide the necessary facilities,
equipment and personnel to comply with the following consumer protection
standards under normal operating conditions:
   (A)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability.
      (1)   Grantee will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call telephone
access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a day, seven
days a week.
         (a)   Trained grantee representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
         (b)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by
a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
      (2)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90%
percent of the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly
basis.
      (3)   The grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless an historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
      (4)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
      (5)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours.
   (B)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four standards will be met no less than 95%
of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed. Standard installations are those that are
located up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system.
      (2)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of grantee, grantee will
begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no event later than 24
hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee must begin actions to
correct other service problems the next business day after notification of the
service problem.
      (3)   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. (The grantee may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer.
      (4)   Grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
      (5)   If grantee's representative is running late for an appointment with
a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted prior to the time of the scheduled appointment. The
appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient
for the customer.
   (C)   Communications between grantee and subscribers.
      (1)   Notifications to subscribers.
         (a)   The grantee shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
            1.   Products and services offered;
            2.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
            3.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
            4.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
            5.   Channel positions of the programming carried on the system;
and
            6.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the grantee's office within the service area.
         (b)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
30 days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control of the
grantee. In addition, the grantee shall notify subscribers 30 days in advance
of any significant changes in the other information required by division (C)(1)
(a) above.
      (2)   Billing.
         (a)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
         (b)   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
         (c)   Grantee shall be allowed to itemize franchise fees payments on
subscriber bills to the extent expressly permitted by Section 622 of the Cable
Act, but in no event shall grantee be allowed to refer to the franchise fee as
a "tax."
      (3)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         (a)   The customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier, or
         (b)   The return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if service
is terminated.
      (4)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.16 RATE REGULATION.
   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable service and
any other services offered over the cable system, to the extent not prohibited
by applicable laws. The grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation
provisions provided for herein, and those of the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC) at 47 CFR 76, Subpart N, as the same may be amended from time
to time. The city shall follow the rules relating to cable rate regulation
promulgated by the FCC at 47 CFR 76, Subpart N, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.17 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until grantee
has secured the necessary permits from grantor, or other applicable
governmental authorities.
   (B)   In those areas of the city where transmission or distribution
facilities of all the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and
maintain its transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
   (C)   In those areas of the city where grantee's cables are located on the
above-ground transmission or distribution facilities of the public utility
providing telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the
facilities of both such public utilities subsequently are placed underground,
then the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities underground, at grantee's cost.
Certain of grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power
supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in
above-ground closures.
   (D)   In new residential developments in which all the electric power and
telephone utilities are underground, the city may, in its sole discretion,
require that the following procedure apply with respect to access to and
utilization of underground easements:
      (1)   The developer shall be responsible for contacting and surveying all
grantees to ascertain which grantees desire (or, pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter and any franchise agreement, may be required) to
provide cable service to that development. The developer may establish a
reasonable deadline to receive responses from grantees. The final development
map shall indicate the grantees which have agreed to serve the development.
      (2)   If one or more grantees wish to provide service within all or part
of the development, they shall be accommodated in the joint utilities trench on
a nondiscriminatory shared basis. If fewer than two grantees indicate interest,
the developer shall provide conduit to accommodate a minimum of two sets of
cable television cables and dedicate to the city any initially unoccupied
conduit. The developer shall be entitled to recover the cost of such initially
unoccupied conduit in the event that grantor subsequently leases or sells
occupancy or use rights to any grantee.
      (3)   The developer shall provide at least ten business days notice of
the date that utility trenches will be open to the grantees that have agreed to
serve the development. When the trenches are open, such grantees shall have two
business days to begin the installation of their cables, and five business days
after beginning installation to complete installation.
      (4)   The final development map shall not be approved until the developer
submits evidence that:
         (a)   It has notified each grantee that underground utility trenches
are to open as of an estimated date, and that each grantee will be allowed
access to such trenches, including trenches from proposed streets to individual
homes or home sites, on specified nondiscriminatory terms and conditions; and
         (b)   It has received a written notification from each grantee that
the grantee intends to install its facilities during the open trench period on
the specified terms and conditions, or such other terms and conditions as are
mutually agreeable to the developer and grantee, or has received no reply from
a grantee within ten days after its notification to such grantee, in which case
the grantee will be deemed to have waived its opportunity to install its
facilities during the open trench period.
      (5)   Sharing the joint utilities trench shall be subject to compliance
with state regulatory agency and utility standards. If such compliance is not
possible, the developer shall provide a separate trench for the cable
television cables, with the entire cost shared among the participating grantee
(s). With the concurrence of the developer, the affected utilities and the
grantees, alternative installation procedures, such as the use of deeper
trenches, may be utilized, subject to the requirements of applicable laws.
      (6)   Any grantee wishing to serve an area where the trenches have been
closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and associated costs and
shall repair all property to the condition which existed prior to such
trenching.
      (7)   In the event that more than one franchise is awarded, the city
reserves the right to limit the number of drop cables and/or pedestals per
residence, or to require that the drop cable(s) and/or pedestals(s) be utilized
only by the grantee selected by the resident to provide service with
compensation and/or rent on commercially reasonable terms to the grantee who
owns the facilities.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.18 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system
in a manner consistent with all applicable laws and the Federal Communications
Commission technical standards, and any standards set forth in its franchise
agreement. In addition, the grantee shall provide to the grantor, upon request,
a written report of the results of the grantee's periodic proof of performance
tests conducted pursuant to Federal Communications Commission standards and
guidelines.
   (B)   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical
standards shall constitute a material breach of the franchise entitling the
city to utilize the procedures of § 114.26 hereof subject to § 114.27 hereof.
   (C)   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all applicable
sections of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, as well
as all other applicable laws.
   (D)   All installation of electronic equipment at the time of installation
shall be of a permanent nature, durable and installed in accordance with the
provisions of the National Electrical and Safety Code and National Electrical
Code, as amended, and as said code may from time to time be amended.
   (E)   Antennae and their supporting structures (towers) shall be painted,
lighted, erected and maintained in accordance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and all other applicable
laws.
   (F)   All of grantee's plant and equipment, including, but not limited to,
the antenna site, headend and distribution system, towers, house connections,
structures, poles, wire, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances shall be
installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced maintenance and construction personnel so
as not to endanger or interfere with improvements the city may deem appropriate
to make or to interfere in any manner with the rights of any property owner, or
to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (G)   Grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install and
maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing failures and
accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to the public.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.19 TRIMMING OF TREES.
   Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees, in accordance with all
applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement restrictions, upon and
hanging over streets and public places of the city so as to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of
grantee. City representatives shall have authority to supervise and approve all
trimming of trees conducted by grantee except in cases of emergency where
advance notification of required tree trimming may not be possible.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.20 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   The city shall, at its own expense, have the right to install and maintain
upon the poles and within the underground pipes and conduits of grantee, any
wires and fixtures, to be used for noncommercial purposes only, desired by the
city to the extent that such installation and maintenance does not interfere
with existing operations of grantee.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.21 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   All programming decisions shall be at the sole discretion of grantee;
provided, however, any change in the mix, quality or level of service pursuant
to 47 USC 545(a) shall require prior approval of the city. Such approval by the
city shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.22 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city, its officers,
boards, commissions, agents and employees (collectively the "indemnified
parties") harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims, causes of
action, actions, liability, demands, damages, judgments, settlements, losses,
expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) and costs of any nature that
any of the indemnified parties may at any time, directly or indirectly, suffer,
sustain or incur arising out of, based upon or in any way connected with the
grant of a franchise to grantee, the operation of grantee's system and/or the
acts and/or omissions of grantee or its agents or employees, whether or not
pursuant to the franchise. This indemnity shall apply, without limitation, to
any action or cause of action for invasion of privacy, defamation, antitrust,
errors and omissions, theft, fire, violation or infringement of any copyright,
trademark, trade names, service mark, patent, or any other right of any person,
whether or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or any franchise agreement, but shall exclude any
claim or action arising out of the acts or omissions of the indemnified parties
or related to any city programming or other access programming for which the
grantee is not legally responsible or any assertion of a franchise violation by
city.
   (B)   City shall promptly notify grantee in writing of any claim or legal
proceeding which gives rise to grantee's indemnification obligations. Grantee
shall be afforded the right to participate in and control any compromise,
settlement or other resolution or disposition of any claim or proceeding. City
and grantee shall fully cooperate with one another regarding such matters.
Grantee shall promptly notify the city of any pending or threatened litigation
that would be likely to adversely affect city.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.23 INSURANCE.
   Within 60 days following the grant of a franchise, the grantee shall obtain,
pay all premiums for and make available to the city at its request copies of
the following insurance policies:
   (A)   A general comprehensive liability insurance policy insuring,
indemnifying, defending and saving harmless the indemnified parties from any
and all claims by any person whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a
person or persons occasioned by the operations of the grantee under any
franchise granted hereunder, or alleged to have been so caused or occurred with
a minimum coverage of $1,000,000 for personal injury or death of one person,
and $3,000,000 for personal injury or death of any two or more persons in any
one occurrence. The policy limits provided for in this division (A) shall be
reviewed and adjusted by the city as necessary not more than once every three
years.
   (B)   Property damage insurance for property damage occasioned by the
operation of grantee under any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or
alleged to have been so caused or occurred, with minimum coverage of $1,000,000
for property damage to the property of any one person and $3,000,000 for
property damage to the property of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
The policy limits provided for in this division (B) shall be reviewed and
adjusted by the city as necessary not more than once every 3 years.
   (C)   Workers Compensation Insurance as provided by applicable laws.
   (D)   All insurance policies called for herein shall be in a form
satisfactory to the city with a company licensed to do business in the state
with a rating by A.M. Best & Co. of not less than "A," and shall
require 30 days written notice of any cancellation to both the city and the
grantee. The grantee shall, in the event of any such cancellation notice,
obtain, pay all premiums for, and file with the city, written evidence of the
issuance of replacement policies within 30 days following receipt by the city
or the grantee of any notice of cancellation.
   (E)   If grantee sells or transfers the cable system, or in the event of
expiration, termination or revocation of a franchise, insurance tail coverage
shall be purchased and filed with the city for the then applicable amounts,
providing coverage for the time periods according to applicable statutes of
limitation, insurance for any issues attributable to the period grantee held
its franchise.
   (F)   It shall be the obligation of grantee to promptly notify the city of
any pending or threatened litigation that would be likely to affect the
indemnified parties.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.24 RECORDS REQUIRED AND GRANTOR'S RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   (A)   Grantee shall at all times maintain:
      (1)   A full and complete set of plans, records and "as-built" maps
showing the location of the cable television system installed or in use in the
city, exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in
subscribers' homes.
      (2)   If requested by grantor, a summary of service calls, identifying
the number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis. A
summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the grantor within 30 days
following its request in a form reasonably acceptable to the grantor.
   (B)   Upon reasonable notice, and during normal business hours, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the grantor,
of all franchise property and facilities, together with any appurtenant
property and facilities of grantee situated within or without the city, and all
records relating to the franchise, provided they are necessary to enable the
grantor to carry out its regulatory responsibilities under applicable laws,
this chapter and the franchise agreement. Grantee shall have the right to be
present at any such examination.
   (C)   The city shall also have the right to inspect, upon 24 hours written
notice, at any time during normal business hours at grantee's office, all
books, records, maps, plans, financial statements, service complaint logs,
performance test results, records of request for service, and other like
materials of grantee.
   (D)   Copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports
submitted by grantee or on behalf of or relating to grantee to the Federal
Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission, or any other
governmental authority having jurisdiction with respect to any matters
affecting the cable system authorized pursuant to this chapter and any
franchise shall, upon request, be submitted, upon request to the city. Copies
of responses from the governmental authority to grantee shall likewise be
furnished to the city.
   (E)   Grantee shall have all rights under applicable laws to withhold
confidential trade secret and privileged information.
   (F)   To the extent permitted by applicable law, city shall notify grantee
if any person requests to inspect or copy any documents provided by grantee at
least three business days prior to complying with said request.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.25 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   (A)   Grantee shall, upon request, within 90 days of each calendar year end,
submit a written end of the year report to grantor with respect to the
preceding calendar year containing the following information:
      (1)   A summary of the previous year's (or in the case of the initial
reporting year, the initial year's) activities in development of the cable
system, including but not limited to, services commenced or discontinued during
the reporting year;
      (2)   A list of grantee's officers, members of its board of directors,
and other principals of grantee;
      (3)   A list of stockholders or other equity investors holding 5% or more
of the voting interest in grantee; and
      (4)   Information as to the number of subscribers, additional television
outlets, and the number of basic and pay service subscribers.
   (B)   All reports required under this chapter, except those required by law
to be kept confidential, shall be available for public inspection in the
grantee's offices during normal business hours.
   (C)   All reports and records required under this chapter shall be furnished
at the sole expense of grantee, except as otherwise provided in this chapter or
the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.26 FRANCHISE VIOLATION.
   In the event grantor believes that grantee has breached or violated any
material provision of this chapter or a franchise granted hereunder, grantor
may act in accordance with the following procedures. Grantor may notify in
writing grantee of the alleged violation or breach and demand that grantee cure
the same within a reasonable time, which shall not be less than ten days in the
case of an alleged failure of the grantee to pay any sum or other amount due
the grantor under this chapter or the grantee's franchise and 30 days in all
other cases. If grantee fails either to cure the alleged violation or breach
within the time prescribed or to commence correction of the violation or breach
within the time prescribed and thereafter diligently pursue correction of such
alleged violation or breach, the grantor shall then give written notice of not
less than 14 days of a public hearing to be held before the Council. Said
notice shall specify the violations or breaches alleged to have occurred. At
the public hearing, the Council shall hear and consider relevant evidence and
thereafter render findings and its decision. In the event the Council finds
that a material violation or breach exists and that grantee has not cured the
same in a satisfactory manner or has not diligently commenced to cure of such
violation or breach after notice thereof from grantor and is not diligently
proceeding to fully cure such violation or breach, the Council may revoke and
terminate the franchise or impose any other remedy permitted by the franchise
agreement or applicable laws. Grantee may appeal such action to any court and/
or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction and the franchise shall remain
in effect during the pendency of such appeal(s).
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.27 FORCE MAJEURE; GRANTEE'S INABILITY TO PERFORM.
   In the event grantee's performance of any of the terms, conditions or
obligations required by this chapter or a franchise granted hereunder is
prevented by a cause or event not within grantee's control, such inability to
perform shall be deemed excused for the period of such inability and no
penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of
this section, causes or events not within the control of grantee shall include,
without limitation, acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil
disturbances, equipment availability, unseasonal and/or unusual weather
conditions, restraints imposed by order of a governmental agency or court,
failure or loss of utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural
disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.28 ABANDONMENT OR REMOVAL OF FRANCHISE PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event that the use of any property of grantee within the
franchise area or a portion thereof is discontinued for a continuous period of
12 months, grantee shall be deemed to have abandoned that property.
   (B)   Grantor, upon such terms as grantor may impose, may give grantee
permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or equipment laid,
directly constructed, operated or maintained in, on, under or over the
franchise area. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise provided
in this chapter, the grantee shall remove all abandoned facilities and
equipment upon receipt of written notice from grantor and shall restore any
affected street to its former state at the time such facilities and equipment
were installed, so as not to impair its usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, grantee shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation made by or on behalf of grantee and shall leave all streets and
other public ways and places in as good condition as that prevailing prior to
such removal without materially interfering with any electrical or telephone
cable or other utility wires, poles or attachments. Grantor shall have the
right to inspect and approve the condition of the streets, public ways, public
places, cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The
liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this chapter and any security
fund provided for in the franchise agreement shall continue in full force and
effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by grantee with
the terms and conditions of this section.
   (C)   Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place, the grantee, if
required by the grantor, shall submit to grantor a bill of sale and/or other an
instrument, satisfactory in form and content to the grantor, transferring to
the grantor the ownership of the franchise property abandoned.
   (D)   At the expiration of the term for which the franchise is granted, or
upon its earlier revocation or termination, as provided for herein and/or in
the franchise agreement, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the grantor shall have the right to require grantee to remove, at its
own expense, all above-ground portions of the cable television system from all
streets and public ways within the city within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be less than 180 days provided, however, that if grantee is
legally providing in cable services over its cable system, city shall comply
with all applicable laws pertaining to grantees rights to continue using its
cable system to provide non-cable services.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter,
the grantee may, with the consent of the grantor, abandon any underground
franchise property in place so long as it does not materially interfere with
the use of the street or public rights-of-way in which such property is located
or with the use thereof by any public utility or other cable grantee.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.29 EXTENDED OPERATION AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICES.
   Upon the expiration, revocation or termination of the franchise, the grantor
and grantee may, to the extent not prohibited by applicable laws, agree to
permit grantee to continue to operate the cable television system for a period
of time not to exceed six months from the date of such expiration, revocation
or termination.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.30 RECEIVERSHIP AND FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   A franchise granted hereunder shall, at the option of grantor, cease
and terminate 120 days after appointment of a receiver or receivers, or trustee
or trustees, to take over and conduct the business of grantee, whether in a
receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless
such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Such receivers or trustees shall have, within 120 days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within the 120 days shall have remedied all the defaults and
violations under the franchise and/or this chapter or provided a plan for the
remedy of such defaults and violations which is satisfactory to the grantor;
and
      (2)   Such receivers or trustees shall, within the 120 days, execute an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby such receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and
every term, provision and limitation of the franchise and this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of a foreclosure or other judicial sale of the franchise
property, or any material part thereof, grantor may give notice of termination
of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter upon grantee and the
successful bidder at such sale, in which the event the franchise granted and
all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder shall cease and terminate 30
days after such notice has been given, unless:
      (1)   Grantor shall have approved the transfer of the franchise in
accordance with the provisions of the franchise and this chapter; and
      (2)   Such successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with
grantor to assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of the franchise.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.31 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter, the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is required
to be reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the franchise.
   (B)   The grantor shall have the right to waive any provision of the
franchise, except those required by applicable laws, if the grantor, in its
sole opinion, determines that it is in the public interest to do so, and that
the enforcement of such provision will impose an undue hardship on the grantee
or the subscribers in all cases subject to § 114.08(B) of this chapter. Waiver
of any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a waiver of such provision
subsequent to such instance nor be deemed a waiver of any other provision of
the franchise unless the statement so recites.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.32 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, channel users, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, disability, national origin, age, gender or sexual preference.
Grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable laws, relating to
nondiscrimination.
   (B)   Grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of applicable laws, as now written or as amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Neither grantee, nor any person, agency, or entity shall, without the
subscriber's consent, tap or arrange for the tapping, of any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection of unauthorized service, polling
with audience participating, or audience viewing surveys to support advertising
research regarding viewers where individual viewing behavior cannot be
identified.
   (D)   In the conduct of providing its services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's or general citizen's
right of privacy or other personal rights through the use of the system as such
rights are delineated or defined by applicable laws. Grantee shall not, without
lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority, utilize the
system's interactive two-way equipment or capability for unauthorized personal
surveillance of any subscriber or general citizen.
   (E)   No cable line, wire, amplifier, converter, or other piece of equipment
owned by grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber's premises,
other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any required
consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
subscriber's property shall be presumed. Where a property owner or his or her
predecessor was granted an easement including a public utility easement or a
servitude to another and the servitude by its terms contemplates a use such as
grantee's intended use, grantee shall not be required to service the written
permission of the owner for the installation of cable television equipment.
   (F)   No signals of a class IV cable communications channel may be
transmitted from a subscriber terminal for purposes of monitoring individual
viewing patterns or practices without the express written permission of a
subscriber. The request for permission must be contained in a separate document
with a prominent statement that the subscriber is authorizing the permission in
full knowledge of its provisions. The written permission must be for a limited
period of time not to exceed one year which is renewal at the option of the
subscriber. No penalty may be invoked for a subscriber's failure to provide or
renew the authorization. The authorization is revocable at any time by the
subscriber without penalty of any kind. The permission must be required for
each type or classification or class IV cable communications activity planned.
      (1)   No information or data obtained by monitoring transmission of a
signal from a subscriber terminal, including but not limited to the lists of
the names and addresses of the subscribers or lists that identify the viewing
habits of subscribers may be sold or otherwise made available to any person
other than to grantee and its employees for internal business use, or to the
subscriber who is the subject of that information, unless the grantee has
received specific written authorization from the subscriber to make the data
available.
      (2)   Written permission from the subscriber must not be required for the
systems conducting system wide or individually addressed electronic sweeps for
the purpose of verifying system integrity or monitoring for the purpose of
billing. Confidentiality of this information is subject to division (F)(1)
above.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a CLASS IV CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
CHANNEL means a signaling path provided by a system to transmit signals of any
type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the system.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.33 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of a direct conflict between any provision of this chapter and
a franchise agreement, the provisions of the franchise agreement shall control.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
§ 114.34 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or any franchise granted hereunder is held
by any governmental authority of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as
conflicting with any applicable laws now or hereafter in effect, or is held by
such governmental authority to be modified in any way in order to conform to
the requirements of any such applicable laws, such provision shall be
considered a separate, distinct, and independent part of this chapter, and such
holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other
provisions hereof. In the event that such applicable laws are subsequently
repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision hereof
which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such
laws, said provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall
thereafter be binding on grantor and grantee, provided that grantor shall give
grantee 30 days written notice of such change before requiring compliance with
said provision or such longer period of time as may be reasonably required for
grantee to comply with such provision.
(Ord. 836, passed 6-23-97)
CHAPTER 115: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Reserved
   
115.03   Application for license
   
115.04   Bonds, insurance and assurances
   
115.05   Reserved
   
115.06   Approval and issuance
   
115.07   Reports to police
   
115.08   Holding periods
   
115.09   Register of goods
   
115.10   Identification
   
115.11   Display of register, goods to police
   
115.12   Receipt to seller
   
115.13   Police order to hold property
   
115.14   Prohibited acts concerning minors
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. A person who loans money on deposit or pledge of personal
property or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing of personal
property or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same back again at
a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by a chattel mortgage on
personal property, taking possession of the property or any part thereof so
mortgaged.
   RECEIVE. To purchase, accept for sale on consignment, or take in pawn any
secondhand goods.
   WHOLESALE MERCHANT or WHOLESALER. A category 50 business under the
provisions of the federal Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) manual which
engages in the business of making sales to retailers, as defined in M.S. §
297A.01(4), for subsequent resale by the retailer in the regular course of its
business.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
§ 115.02 RESERVED.
§ 115.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person desiring a pawnbrokers license shall file with the City Clerk an
application in writing upon a form furnished by the City Clerk's office. Such
applications may require that any or all of the following information be set
forth upon the application, in addition to such further information as may be
required by other provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Full legal name and any aliases, date of birth, social security
number, driver's license number (if any), telephone number, marital status,
spouse's identity, residential address(es) and occupation(s) for the preceding
five years, citizenship of the applicant, and the legal name, business ID#,
address, character, and duration of any partnership, corporation, association
or other organization on behalf of which application is being made.
   (B)   Full legal name, home address, date of birth, telephone number, and
office address, title and extent of interest held for each partner in the case
of an application by a partnership or for each officer in an application by a
corporation.
   (C)   In the case of an application by a corporation, the date of
incorporation, state of incorporation, authority for the corporation to do
business in Minnesota, parent company name if a subsidiary, general corporate
purpose, and copies of current articles and by-laws.
   (D)   The business address, and the name and address of the owner of the
premises.
   (E)   A statement as to whether, within the preceding five years, the
applicant has been convicted of any law relating to theft, damage or trespass
to property, possession of stolen property, possession of burglary tools,
burglary, sale of a controlled substance, or other crimes in the operation of a
business; the statement shall include the nature, date and location of the
offense and the penalty assessed.
   (F)   The full legal name, date of birth, and address of the manager(s) or
proprietor(s) of the business, if different than the applicant.
   (G)   Nature and extent of any previous involvement of applicant or other
parties listed on the application in any business of a similar nature involving
the receipt of second-hand goods.
   (H)   The name, address, and nature of the interest held by any person or
entity other than the applicant in the premises or business proposed to be
licensed.
   (I)   The nature and extent of any taxes or other monies owed to the city or
any other governmental agency of the state by the applicant or the organization
on behalf of which application is being made.
   (J)   Proof of workers' compensation coverage.
   (K)   The application shall be signed, verified and sworn to at the City
Clerk's office: by that person if the applicant is a natural person; by an
agent or officer authorized to sign if the applicant is a corporation; or by a
partner if the applicant is a partnership.
   (L)   No person shall make any material false statement in any application.
In addition to other penalties, the licensee's license may be revoked by the
City Council for a violation of this section.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.04 BONDS, INSURANCE AND ASSURANCES.
   (A)   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit to the
City Clerk a bond with corporate surety, or in lieu thereof, cash or United
States government bonds in the amount of $5,000, which bond shall be approved
by the City Council. All bonds shall be conditioned that the principal will
observe all laws in relation to such licensed business, including in particular
complying with each and every requirement of this chapter; will pay when due
all fees, taxes, penalties and other charges provided by law; and will account
for the delivery to any person legally entitled thereto any goods of that
person which have come into the principal's possession through the principal's
business as a pawnbroker, or, in lieu thereof, will pay the reasonable value of
the goods in money to the person. All bonds shall be for the period of the
license year.
   (B)   The amount specified in the bond required is declared to be a penalty;
provided, however, that the surety thereof shall not be liable for any amount
in excess of the penal amount of the bond. Such bond shall run to the city, as
obligee, and in the event of a forfeiture of any such bond for violation of the
said conditions, the District Court of Nobles County may forfeit the penal sum
of the said bond to the city.
      (1)   The licensed business and its principals shall obtain and keep
current all insurance as required by the state, including workers compensation
coverage, and shall provide proof thereof upon demand to the City Clerk.
      (2)   The licensed business shall at all times be located and operated in
compliance with all existing requirements of the fire, building, zoning,
health, and all other applicable codes of the city.
      (3)   An application for renewal of a pawnbroker's license shall require
the applicant to reverify or up-date all of the information contained on the
original license application.
      (4)   An application seeking to obtain approval for the transfer of a
pawnbrokers license which is currently held by another person or organization,
shall complete and furnish to the City Clerk an application form as in the case
of an original application for the same type and class of license. In addition,
the current license holder must sign the application form indicating its
approval of the transfer.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.05 RESERVED.
§ 115.06 APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   An application for a pawnbroker's license shall be deemed completed when all
of the information required on the application form has been provided to the
City Clerk; all fees, bonds, insurance forms, and other required documentary
materials have been paid or filed, as appropriate, with the City Clerk; and all
investigation reports have been submitted to the City Clerk following
completion of the application investigation.
   (A)   At the first meeting of the Council following completion of the
application for a pawnbroker's license, the City Clerk shall present the same
to the Council for its consideration. The Council, if it deems the applicant a
proper and suitable one to be granted the license applied for, shall by motion
grant said application and approve the bond, cash or United States government
bonds and direct the Mayor to sign and the City Clerk to issue the license to
the applicant.
   (B)   No license shall be effective until:
      (1)   The license has been signed by the Mayor and City Clerk;
      (2)   The applicant has paid in full all taxes and other monies owed to
the city or to any other governmental subdivision or agency of the state.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.07 REPORTS TO POLICE.
   (A)   For the following items, regardless of what price the licensee intends
for their resale, the licensee shall make out, on forms approved by the Police
Department, and send monthly by mail to the Police Department, a copy of the
pawn ticket from any and all goods listed below and received in the city during
the preceding working day, together with the time received and a description of
the person from whom the goods were received:
      (1)   Items with a serial number, identification number, initials,
personalized inscriptions, personal brand, or "Operation Identification"
symbol;
      (2)   Cameras;
      (3)   Electronic audio or video equipment;
      (4)   Precious jewelry or gems and precious metals;
      (5)   Artist-signed or artist-attributed works of art;
      (6)   Firearms;
      (7)   Any item, except furniture and kitchen or laundry appliances, which
the licensee intends to sell for more than $200.
   (B)   All pawnbrokers shall send copies of all pawn tickets on a monthly
basis. Copies of pawn tickets shall be delivered to the Police Department by
the fourth day of the month following the reporting period.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the above, the licensee shall not be required to
report any of the above items which were purchased by the licensee from a
wholesale merchant and for which purchase the licensee has a purchase invoice
on file.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.08 HOLDING PERIODS.
   Any items received by a pawnbroker for which a report to the police is
required under § 115.07 shall not be sold or otherwise transferred for seven
calendar days after the date of such report to the police, unless otherwise
authorized by the police. However, an individual may redeem an item that he or
she pawned at any time more than 72 hours, exclusive of Sundays or legal
holidays, after the item was received on deposit.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.09 REGISTER OF GOODS.
   Each licensee shall keep at the place of business a register in which shall
be entered clearly in ink in the English language, a detailed description of
each article of personal property acquired by purchase or received on deposit
as a pledge in the course of the business. The licensee shall note particularly
in such entry any prominent distinguishing mark on such article, the date when
the same is received, and the name or names and residences of the person or
persons depositing or pledging the same. Such register shall be kept clean and
legible and without erasure or defacement of any proof of the entries made
therein.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.10 IDENTIFICATION.
   Every licensee shall require a seller or pawner of any item listed in §
115.07 to present to the licensee at the time of transaction an identification
card in the form of a driver's license with photo, State of Minnesota, photo
identification card, or passport with photo, which shall indicate the sell/
pawner's identity and current home address. The licensee shall record on the
register required by this section in connection with the transaction the type
of card presented, the agency issuing the card, and the serial number of the
card, if any.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.11 DISPLAY OF REGISTER, GOODS TO POLICE.
   Each licensee shall, at any time during business hours, exhibit to any
police officer the register and entries thereon, and shall also exhibit to such
officer when required, any article of personal property which such licensed
person may have received by purchase or on deposit or in pledge.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.12 RECEIPT TO SELLER.
   Every licensee shall provide upon request a receipt to the seller or
consignor of any item described in § 112.07 which shall include:
   (A)   The name, address, and phone number of the licensed business;
   (B)   The date on which the item(s) was received by the licensee;
   (C)   A description of the item(s) pawned or purchased;
   (D)   The amount paid for the items and each of them;
   (E)   The signature of the licensee or its agent;
   (F)   If pawned, a date after which the item(s) will be sold or otherwise
disposed of by the licensee.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.13 POLICE ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police or the Chief's designee, may by written notification
require a licensee not to sell, alter or remove any item described in § 115.07
if the Chief or the Chief's designee has probable cause to believe that the
item(s) is stolen. After receipt of such notification, the licensee or its
agents shall not sell, alter, or remove the item(s) from the licensed premises
until authorized in writing by the Chief or the Chief's designee to do so.
(Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.14 PROHIBITED ACTS CONCERNING MINORS.
   No person under the age of 18 years shall sell or pawn any secondhand goods
to any licensee, nor shall any licensee receive any goods from a person under
the age of 18 years, unless the person is accompanied by the person's parent or
guardian who is identified by an identification card containing a picture of
the parent or guardian and the parent's or guardian's address.
(M.S. § 325J) (Ord. 799, passed 4-11-94)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 116: LAWFUL GAMBLING
Section
   
116.01   Adoption of statutes by reference
   
116.02   Organizations eligible for a lawful gambling license
   
116.03   Disposition of profits
   
116.04   Gambling tax; proceeds
   
116.05   Records and reports
   
116.06   Accumulations of proceeds
   
116.07   Applications and reports to be submitted to state control board and
City Clerk
   
116.08   Limitation of licenses
   
116.09   Leases
   
116.10   Management
   
116.11   Authority of Council to disapprove license
   
116.12   Exempt organizations
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 ADOPTION OF STATUTES BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. Chapter 349 is hereby adopted by reference the same as if it were fully
set forth herein.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
§ 116.02 ORGANIZATIONS ELIGIBLE FOR A LAWFUL GAMBLING LICENSE.
   To receive a lawful gambling license from the Minnesota Gambling Control
Board and to become eligible to conduct lawful gambling in the city, an
organization must meet all of the requirements imposed by state law, and at
least one of the following conditions:
   (A)   The organization has at least 15 members that are residents of the
city; or
   (B)   The physical site for the organization's headquarters or the
registered business office of the organization is located within the city, and
has been located within the city for at least two years immediately preceding
application for a license; or
   (C)   The organization owns real property within the city and the lawful
gambling is conducted on the property owned by the organization within the
city; or
   (D)   The physical site where the organization regularly holds its meetings
and conducts its activities, other than lawful gambling and fund raising, is
within the city and has been located within the city for at least two years
immediately preceding application for a license.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.03 DISPOSITION OF PROFITS.
   Licensed organizations conducting gambling in the city shall expend 10% of
its net profits from the operation of gambling for lawful charitable purposes
conducted or located within the city trade area, which is limited to the city
and each contiguous township.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.04 GAMBLING TAX; PROCEEDS.
   (A)   A local gambling tax of 3% of the gross receipts from lawful gambling,
lawful gambling less prizes actually paid by the organization, shall be paid to
the city for the purpose of regulating such gambling. Such payment shall be
made on a monthly basis, accompanied by a monthly report containing the
following information upon such form as may be required:
      (1)   The total amount of receipts from lawful gambling activities during
the reporting period.
      (2)   The total amount of prizes actually paid out by the organization
during the reporting period.
      (3)   The signature of the person filing the return.
      (4)   The period covered by the return.
   (B)   All tax proceeds not utilized in conjunction with regulating such
gambling shall be returned to the contributing organizations annually on a pro
rata basis.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.05 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   All qualified organizations operating gambling devices in the city shall
keep monthly financial records of gambling proceeds and disbursements, and
shall submit copies of same to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 735, passed 4-24-89; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-
27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.06 ACCUMULATIONS OF PROCEEDS.
   No licensed organization may accumulate at any one time more than 25% of the
total net gambling proceeds from the previous calendar year without prior
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.07 APPLICATIONS AND REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED TO STATE CONTROL BOARD AND
CITY CLERK.
   A copy of all applications and reports required by and submitted to the
Minnesota Gambling Control Board shall also be submitted to the City Clerk at
the same time that they are submitted to said Board.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.08 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   No licensed organization shall be permitted to conduct gambling in more than
two establishments within the city. Further, only one organization shall be
permitted to operate or sell lawful gambling devices at an owned or leased
establishment.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.09 LEASES.
   No leases to an organization for lawful gambling shall have a monthly rental
payment in excess of the amount allowed by Minnesota Statutes. The monthly
payment shall include heat, electricity and janitorial services.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
§ 116.10 MANAGEMENT.
   All gambling operations must be managed by a bona fide member of the
licensed organization who is a resident of the city.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
Penalty, see § 116.99
2002 S-2
§ 116.11 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO DISAPPROVE LICENSE.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the City
Council's authority to disapprove a license for lawful gambling.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
§ 116.12 EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.
   Organizations conducting bingo or a raffle under a state or city approved
gambling exemption certificate or exclusion are exempt from the local gambling
tax under M.S. § 349.166. Such organizations must still obtain a permit from
the city and comply with all state law requirements, prior to conducting bingo
or a raffle.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, as provided in § 10.99. Additionally, a violation of this
chapter may result in the recommendation by the City Council that a license not
be renewed.
(Ord. 725, passed 8-8-88; Am. Ord. 924, passed 8-27-01)
CHAPTER 117: RESERVED
CHAPTER 118: TAXICABS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Prohibition
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE. The soliciting or accepting for transportation of passengers for
hire within the city.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, court, bridge, lane or public place
within the city.
   TAXICAB. Any vehicle engaged in the carrying of persons for hire, whether
over a fixed route or not, and whether the same be operated from a street stand
or subject to calls from a garage, or otherwise operated for hire; but the term
shall not include vehicles subject to control and regulation by the Public
Utilities Commission; vehicles regularly used by undertakers in carrying on
their business; or vehicles operated by or under contract to the School
District.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-11-99)
§ 118.02 PROHIBITION.
   No taxicab may operate upon the streets of the city without the approval of
the City Council.
(Ord. 883, passed 10-11-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 119: PUBLIC DANCES
Section
   
119.01   Regulation of public dances
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   License
   
119.04   License application
   
119.05   Insurance and license fee
   
119.06   Location
   
119.07   Persons and locations ineligible for a license
   
119.08   Reserved
   
119.09   License restrictions
   
119.10   Sanctions for license violations
 
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01 REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES.
   All public dances held in the city shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE.  Any dance where the general public may participate, whether
or not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE.  Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.03 LICENSE.
   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate a public dancing place
or conduct a public dance in the City of Worthington without first obtaining a
license from the city. No license shall be issued to any applicant under the
age of 18 years. Notwithstanding the forgoing, no license shall be required to
be obtained under this chapter if the public dance would take place on the
campus or in the facilities of a bona fide elementary or secondary school,
vocational or trade school, college or university, or similar educational
institution.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   A person, partnership, or corporation seeking a dance license shall complete
the application forms furnished by the City Clerk containing the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address, and date of birth of the applicant seeking the
license. In the case of a partnership, the names, dates of birth and addresses
of all partners shall be listed. In the case of a corporation, the names, dates
of birth, and addresses of all officers of the corporation shall be listed;
   (B)   The address of the property to be licensed, together with a floor plan
depicting the premises to be licensed and setting forth the square footage that
will be open to the public, and the number of off-street parking stalls that
will be available to the customers and employees of the premises to be
licensed;
   (C)   The date of the dance and the time of its beginning and end;
   (D)   A statement whether all real estate taxes and special assessments that
are due and payable for the property to be licensed have been paid to the date
of the application, and if not paid, the years and amounts that are unpaid;
   (E)   A copy of any lease governing the premises to be licensed, in the
event that the premises are not owned by the applicant;
   (F)   The name, date of birth, and address of any individuals employed by
the applicant as managers of the premises to be licensed;
   (G)   Proof of insurance required, and a request for any use of a city
building or property. No license shall be issued until the fees for the use of
the city facility or property has been paid;
   (H)   Such other information as the City Council, City Clerk, or Chief of
Police shall require.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.05 INSURANCE AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   All insurance policies required for the event, including any insurance
required by law for the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list the City of
Worthington as a named insured and provide a provision to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the city and any of its employees from any claims arising from
the event.
   (B)   The annual fee for a dance license shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.06 LOCATION.
   Prior to the granting of the license, the applicant must demonstrate that
adequate parking is available at the location of the dance, that the location
is safe and accessible, that it complies will all city zoning ordinances, that
it is properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms, and
lighting facilities, and that the applicant is capable of maintaining order at
the site. This information shall also be provided to the City Clerk before a
license shall be issued. No license shall be granted by the City Council for a
place having so-called private apartments or private rooms furnished or used
for any purposes other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins such
dancing place or which may be reached by stairs, elevators, or passageways
leading from such dancing place.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.07 PERSONS AND LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   (A)   Persons ineligible.  No license under this section will be approved if
the applicant or any of the applicant's listed managers (including all partners
in the case of a partnership and all officers in the case of a corporation):
      (1)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
      (2)   Is not at least 18 years of age on the date the application is
submitted to the City Council;
      (3)   Has a conviction of any crime that is directly related to the
occupation licensed herein, as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, and the
applicant has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and
present fitness to perform the duties as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3;
      (4)   Is not the real party in interest in the business being licensed;
      (5)   Knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on the license
application;
      (6)   Owes taxes or assessments to the state, county, school district, or
city that are due and delinquent.
   (B)   Locations ineligible.
      (1)   No license shall be approved for any premise on which taxes,
assessments or other financial claims of the state, county, school district, or
city are delinquent or unpaid. In the event that an action has been commenced
under M.S. §§ 278.01 - 278.13, contesting the amount or validity of such taxes,
the City Council may, on application, waive strict compliance with this
provision, provided, however, that no waiver may be granted for taxes, or any
portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
      (2)   No license shall be approved unless the premises proposed to be
licensed complies with all applicable zoning requirements.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.08 RESERVED.
§ 119.09 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting of license and presence of applicant at dance. The license
shall be posted in a visible place at said dance. The applicant shall be
present at all times while the dance is occurring.
   (B)   Liquor license required. No person shall give, hold, conduct or
license any public dance where liquor will be served, as defined in M.S.
Chapter 340A, without obtaining the appropriate separate liquor license from
the city.
   (C)   Security officer presence. A security officer or officers must be
present at all times while said public dance is being held, until all of the
participants have left the public dancing place.
   (D)   Hours.  No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
12:00 p.m. on any day.
   (E)   Minors denied admission. No person under the age of 21 shall be
allowed to be present by the license holder or any security officer at a public
dance where alcohol is sold or consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (F)   Intoxicated persons. A licensed premise shall not admit or permit to
remain on the premises any individual who is intoxicated or who appears to be
under the influence of alcohol, illegal controlled substances, or hazardous
substances.
   (G)   Illegal activities.  A licensee shall not allow any person to use or
sell illegal controlled substances anywhere on the licensed premises, including
any parking areas contiguous thereto.
   (H)   Conduct.  No person present shall engage in any disorderly conduct as
defined by M.S. § 609.72 or Wothington Code
§ 130.01, and any disorderly person shall be immediately removed from the dance
by the security officer present. Should a substantial number of persons engage
in disorderly conduct, the security officer shall terminate the dance and
remove all persons from the public dancing place.
   (I)   Lighting.  In order to protect the safety of the persons attending a
public dance, the location shall be adequately illuminated and dancing therein
while lights are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give inadequate or
imperfect illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall be
illuminated at all times during the public dance.
   (J)   Noise. All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this
code regulating unlawful noise.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.10 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may suspend or revoke a license issued pursuant to
this chapter for:
      (1)   A violation of fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement
contained in a license application or made in the course of carrying on the
licensed business; any violation of state law or city ordinances;
      (2)   A criminal conviction of a licensee, a partner in the case of the
licensee being a partnership, or an officer in the case of the licensee being a
corporation, that is directly related to the business licensed as defined by
M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, provided that the person so convicted cannot show
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties of the licensed business as defined by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3; or
      (3)   Conducting the licensed business in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the
health, safety, or general welfare of the community.
   (B)   A license suspension or revocation by the City Council shall be
preceded by a written notice to the licensee and the opportunity for a hearing.
The notice shall give at least eight days notice of the time and place of the
hearing and shall state the nature of the allegations against the licensee. The
notice shall be mailed by regular mail to the address of the licensed premises.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to being grounds for a license suspension or revocation, any
license holder violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and their public dance license is suspended immediately at the
time of any arrest or citation for violating this chapter.
(Ord. 937, passed 7-8-02)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   False fire alarms
   
130.04   Prohibited dangerous acts
   
130.05   Public urination
   
130.06   Administrative offenses
   
130.07   Possession of drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
130.08   Possession or sale of small amounts of marijuana
   
130.09   Discharge of firearms and explosives
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do the
following:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting; or,
   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character; or
   (C)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous and
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others; or,
   (D)   Willfully and lewdly expose his person or the private parts thereof,
or procure another to so expose himself; and any open or gross lewdness or
lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency; or,
   (E)   Race the motor of any motor vehicle; or,
   (F)   Cause the spinning or skidding of wheels or tires causing tire squeals
or similar noise; or,
   (G)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by shouting or
by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any automobile or
other vehicle horn; or,
   (H)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others; or,
   (I)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any premises or
any property located thereon; or,
   (J)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage or rubbish onto any premises except into receptacles provided for such
purposes; or,
   (K)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being requested
or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the
premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who
may be present thereon at that time as part of his official duty, nor shall it
include the wife, children, employee or tenant of such owner or occupant.
('69 Code, § 6.27) (Ord. 538-6, eff. 1-8-76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   16 – 17 years of age. 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day;

         (b)   16 – 17 years of age. 12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday
or Sunday;

         (c)   15 years of age and younger. 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and

         (d)   15 years of age and younger. 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday
until 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
      (2)   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes but is not
limited to a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      (3)   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      (4)   GUARDIAN. Includes a person who, under court order, is the guardian
of the person of a minor, or a public or private agency with whom a minor has
been placed by a court.
      (5)   MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      (6)   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
      (7)   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-
parent of another person, or a person who is at least 18 years of age and
authorized by a parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
      (8)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group
of the public has access and includes but is not limited to streets, highways
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      (9)   REMAIN. Means to linger or stay, or fail to leave premises when
requested to do so by a police officer or the owner, operator or other person
in control of the premises.
      (10) SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted
loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent or
guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew. That the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married.
      (j)   Homeless or uses a public or semi-public place as his or her usual
place of abode.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) of this section
that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
Police Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) is present.
   (E)   Review of subchapter.
      (1)   Within six months after the initial enforcement of this section,
the City Council shall review this section to determine its effectiveness and
the continuing need for the section.
      (2)   The City Council's review shall specifically include the following
information:
         (a)   The practicality of enforcing the section and any problems with
enforcement identified by the Police Department;
         (b)   The impact of the section on crime statistics;
         (c)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for a violation of
the section; and
         (d)   The city's net cost of enforcing the section.
   (F)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(2) of this section, a
person who violates a provision of § 130.14 is guilty of a separate offense for
each day or part of a day during which the violation is committed, continued or
permitted. Such violation shall be punished as provided in § 10.99.
      (2)   Any minor who is convicted of a violation of § 130.14 after the
case has been referred for prosecution in the trial court under M.S. § 260.125,
and any adult person having the care and custody of such minor, is guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
('69 Code, § 6.30) (Am. Ord. 710, passed 3-23-87; Am. Ord. 970, passed 10-25-
04)
§ 130.03 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   (A)   The third false fire alarm, burglar alarm or combination thereof, at
the same location within the calendar year, is hereby declared a public
nuisance and a safety hazard.
   (B)   The Public Safety Director shall send written notice to any property
owner who has had three false fire or burglar alarms or a combination thereof
within a calendar year, putting the owner on notice that each additional false
alarm will result in a $200 administrative fine during that calendar year.
   (C)   The owner of any property to which the Fire Department or Police
Department has responded to an excess of three false fire alarms, burglar
alarms or combination thereof in a calendar year, shall be charged a $200
administrative fine.
   (D)   The charge specified in division (C) may be abated by the Public
Safety Director in his or her discretion upon good and sufficient evidence that
the owner or the occupant has made a good faith effort to solve the problem
which has caused the false alarms.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall, upon direction of the Public Safety Director,
cause a bill to be sent to a violator of division (B). If a bill remains unpaid
after 30 days, the City Clerk shall present to the Council at its next regular
meeting notification of same and shall request the Council to determine by
resolution the manner of collection to be used as is provided in divisions (F)
or (G) of this section.
   (F)   The City Clerk shall, upon direction of the City Council, extend the
charge as specified in division (C), as a special assessment against the lots
or parcels of ground to which the Fire Department or Police Department was
falsely summoned in violation of division (B) herein. Such special assessments
shall at the time of certifying taxes to the County Auditor be certified for
collection as other special assessments are certified and collected.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall, in the alternative, upon direction of the
Council, bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover from the
persons owning land to which the Fire Department or Police Department was
falsely summoned in violation of division (B) herein, the charge for such
violation as is set forth in division (C) herein, and the costs and
disbursements thereof in a civil action therefor.
(Ord. 748, passed 2-12-90; Am. Ord. 996, passed 10-9-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.04 PROHIBITED DANGEROUS ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Smoke in the presence of explosives, or inflammable materials, or in a
building, or area, in which "No Smoking" notices have been prominently posted;
or,
   (B)   Interfere with or obstruct the prevention or extinguishing of any
fire, or destroy the lawful orders of a law enforcement officer or firefighter
present at the fire; or
   (C)   Show a false light or signal or interfere with any light, signal or
sign controlling or guiding traffic upon a highway, railway track, navigable
water, or in the air; or,
   (D)   Place an obstruction upon a railroad track; or,
   (E)   Expose another or his property to an obnoxious or harmful gas, fluid,
or substance, with intent to injure, molest or coerce; or,
   (F)   Trespass or permit animals under his control to trespass upon a
railroad track; or,
   (G)   Permit domestic animals or fowls under his control to go upon the
lands of another within the city; or,
   (H)   Interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or
marked to designate a point of a boundary, line or a political subdivision, or
a tract of land; or,
   (I)   Trespass upon the premises of another without claim of right; or,
   (J)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or injure any fruit,
fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the permission of the owner
or occupant; or,
   (K)   Without the permission of the owner tamper with or get into or upon a
motor vehicle, or ride in or upon such motor vehicles knowing it was taken and
is being driven by another without the permission of the owner.
('69 Code, § 6.23)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 PUBLIC URINATION.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes, but is not limited to, any street or highway, alley,
parking lot, driveway, sidewalk, boulevard, park, or other place open to public
view. A public place does not include an enclosure designed for use as a toilet
or lavatory.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to urinate in a public
place.
   (C)   Violation. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor, as provided in
§ 10.99.
('69 Code, § 6.66)
Penalty see, in § 10.99
§ 130.06 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to
this section are intended to provide the public and the City of Worthington
with an informal, cost effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional
criminal charges for violations of certain city code provisions. The procedures
are intended to be voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with
administrative offenses. At anytime prior to the payment of the administrative
penalty as is provided for thereafter, the individual may withdraw from
participation in the procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal
charges in accordance with law. Likewise, the City of Worthington in its
discretion may choose not to initiate an administrative offense and may bring
criminal charges in the first instance. In the event a party participates in
the administrative offense procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty
which may be imposed, the City of Worthington will seek to collect the costs of
the administrative offense procedures as part of a subsequent criminal sentence
in the event the party is charged and is adjudicated guilty of the criminal
violation.

   (B)   Administrative offense defined.  An administrative offence is a
violation of a provision of the city code and is subject to the administrative
penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in
division (H), hereafter.

   (C)   Notice.  Any officer of the City of Worthington Police Department or
any other person employed by the city, authorized in writing by the City
Administrator, and having authority to enforce this code, shall upon
determining that there has been a violation, notify the violator, or in the
case of a vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle a notice of the violation.
Said notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of the violation, the
name of the official issuing the notice, and the amount of the scheduled
penalty.

   (D)   Payment.  Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within
seven days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on
the schedule of penalties for the violation. The penalty may be paid in person
or by mail, and payment shall be deemed to be an admission of the violation.

   (E)   Court appearance request. Any person contesting an administrative
offense pursuant to this section may, within seven days of the time of the
issuance of the notice, request a court appearance. A person requesting a court
appearance will be issued a citation/summons for the violation and a court date
will be set. The administrative offense will then be dismissed.

   (F)   Failure to pay. In the event a party charged with an administrative
offense fails to pay the penalty, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge
will be brought against the alleged violator in accordance with applicable
statutes. If the penalty is paid, no such charge may be brought by the City of
Worthington for the same violation.

   (G)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be paid to the City of Worthington and deposited in the City's
General Fund.

   (H)   Offenses and penalties.  Offenses which maybe charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for such offenses may be established
by resolution of the City Council from time to time. Copies of such resolution
shall be maintained in the Office of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 949, passed 9-8-03)
§ 130.07 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to use or to
possess drug paraphernalia. Any violation of this section is a petty
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 950, passed 9-8-03)
§ 130.08 POSSESSION OR SALE OF SMALL AMOUNTS OF MARIJUANA.
   A person who unlawfully sells a small amount of marijuana for no
remuneration, or who unlawfully possesses a small amount of marijuana is guilty
of a petty misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $200. "Small amount" as
applied to marijuana means 42.5 grams or less. This provision shall not apply
to the resinous form of marijuana.
(Ord. 950, passed 9-8-03)
§ 130.09 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge within the limits
of the city any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm, firecracker, rocket or
other fireworks, air gun, air rifle or other similar device commonly referred
to as a BB gun.

   (B)   (1)   A BB gun may be discharged upon private property with permission
of the property owner. BB guns may not be used in a reckless manner. Minors
must be supervised by a parent.

      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
RECKLESS USAGE. To intentionally or unintentionally handle a BB gun in a
careless manner as such to cause or possibly cause injury to a person or
persons or damage to property.

   (C)   Nothing in this section shall apply to a display of fireworks by an
organization or group of organizations authorized in writing by the Council or
to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties or to a starter's
pistol used in conjunction with a sporting event.
(Ord. 968, passed 9-13-04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   PLANNING
      
152.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   AIRPORT ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Housing Code adopted
   
150.03   Moving buildings
   
150.04   Plumbers
Rental House Code
   
150.10   Rental housing maintenance and occupancy
GENERAL PROVISION
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Application, administration and enforcement.  
      (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minn. Rules, part 1300.2100, and as modified by Ch. 1305.
The code shall be enforced within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S.
§ 16B.62, Subd. 1 when so established by this section.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this city is called the City of
Worthington.
      (3)   A Minnesota certified Building Official must be appointed by this
jurisdiction to administer the code (M.S. § 16B.65).
   (B)   Permits and fees.  
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1 and as provided for in chapter 1 of the
1997 Uniform Building Code and Minn. Rules, parts 1305.0106 and 1305.0107.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule below. In addition to the fee schedule, a
surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by
this code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70.
Building Permit Fee Schedule One through Four Family Residential Structures
Valuation              Permit Fee        Plan Check Fee      State Surcharge
$1-$1,000              $15.80            65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $15.80 for the
$1,001 - $5,000        first $1,000      65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $11.06 per $1,000
                       over
                       $60.04 for the
$5,001 - $25,000       first $5,000         65% of Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                       $7.27 per $1,000  Fee
                       over
                       $205.44 for the
$25,001 - $50,000      first $25,000     65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $6.00 per $1,000
                       over
                       $355.44 for the
$50,001 - $100,000     first $50,000     65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $3.95 per $1,000
                       over
                       $552.94 for the
$100,001 - $500,000    first $100,000    65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $3.16 per $1,000
                       over
                       $1,816.94 for the
$500,001 - $1,000,000  first $500,000    65% of Permit Fee   0.05% of Valuation
                       $2.84 per $1,000
                       over
                       $3,236.94 for the                     $500 for first
$1,000,001 -           first $1,000,000  65% of Permit Fee   $1,000,000
$2,000,000             $2.29 per $1,000                      .040% of val. over
                       over
                       $3,236.94 for the                     $900 for first
$2,000,001 -           first $1,000,000  65% of Permit Fee   $2,000,000
$3,000,000             $2.29 per $1,000                      .030% of val. over
                       over
                       $3,236.94 for the                     $1,200 for first
$3,000,001 -           first $1.000,000  65% of Permit Fee   $3,000,000
$4,000,000          $2.29 per $1,000                      .020% of val. over
                       over
                       $3,236.94 for the                     $1,400 for first
$4,000,001 -           first $1,000,000  65% of Permit Fee   $4,000,000
$5,000,000       $2.29 per $1,000                      .010% of val. over
                       over
                       $3,236.94 for the                     $1,500 for first
$5,000,001 and over    first $1,000,000  65% of Permit Fee   $5,000,000
                       $2.29 per $1,000                      .005% of val. over
                       over
 
Building Permit Fee Schedule Other Than One - Four Family Residential
Structures
                                            Plan
Valuation                      Permit Fee   Check  State Surcharge
                                            Fee
                                            65% of
$1-$1,000                      $22.12   Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                                            Fee
                               $22.12 for
                               the first    65% of
$1,001 - $5,000             $1,000       Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                               $11.06 per   Fee
                               $1,000 over
                               $66.36 for
                               the first    65% of
$5,001 - $25,000               $5,000       Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                               $8.53 per    Fee
                               $,1,000 over
                               $236.96 for
                               the first    65% of
$25,001 - $50,000              $25,000      Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                               $6.32 per    Fee
                               $1,000 over
                               $394.96 for
                               the first    65% of
$50,001 - $100,000             $50,000      Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                               $4.74 per    Fee
                               $1,000 over
                               $631.96 for
                               the first    65% of
$100,001 - $500,000            $100,000     Permit 0.05% of Valuation
                               $3.71 per    Fee
                               $1,000 over
                               $2,115.96
                               for the      65% of
$500,001 -                     first        Permit 0.05% of Valuation
$1,000,000           $500,000     Fee
                               $3.24 per
                               $1,000
                               $3,735.96
                               for the      65% of
$1,000,001 - $2,000,000        first        Permit $500 for first $1,000,000   
                               $1,000,000   Fee    .040% of val. over
                               $2.37 per
                               $1,000 over
                               $3,735.96
                               for the      65% of
$2,000,001 - $3,000,000        first        Permit $900 for first $2,000,000
                               $1,000,000   Fee    .030% of val. over
                               $2.37 per
                               $1,000 over
                               $3,735.96
                               for the      65% of $1,200 for first
$3,000,001 - $4,000,000        first        Permit $3,000,000
                               $1,000,000   Fee    .020% of val. over
                               $2.37 per
                               $1,000 over
                               $3,735.96
                               for the      65% of $1,400 for first
$4,000,001 - $5,000,000        first        Permit $4,000,000
                               $1,000,000   Fee    .010% of val. over
                               $2.37 per
                               $1,000 over
                               $3,735.96
                               for the      65% of $1,500 for first
$5,000,001 and over            first        Permit $5,000,000
                               $1,000,000   Fee    .005% of val. over
                               $2.37 per
                               $1,000 over
 
   (C)   Building Code. The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant
to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to 16B.75 is hereby adopted as the building code for this
jurisdiction. The code is hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set
out herein. The Minnesota State Building Code includes the following chapters
of the Minnesota Rules:
      Chapter 1300   -   Minnesota Building Code
      Chapter 1301   -   Building Official Certification
      Chapter 1302   -   State building construction approvals
      Chapter 1305   -   Adoption of the 1997 Uniform Building Code including
Appendix Chapters:
               3, Division I, Detention and Correctional Facilities
               12, Division II, Sound Transmission Control
               15, Reroofing
               16, Division I, Snowland Design
               29 Minimum Plumbing Fixtures
               31, Division II, Membrane Structures
      Chapter 1307   -   Elevators and Related Devices, July 6, 1999
      Chapter 1315   -   Adoption of 1996 National Electrical Code 
      Chapter 1325   -   Solar Energy Systems
      Chapter 1330   -   Fallout Shelters
      Chapter 1335   -   Floodproofing Regulations
      Chapter 1341   -   Facilities for the Handicapped
      Chapter 1346   -   Adoption of the 1991 Uniform Mechanical Code
      Chapter 1350   -   Manufactured Homes
      Chapter 1360   -   Prefabricated Buildings
      Chapter 1361   -   Industrialized/Modular Buildings
      Chapter 1370   -   Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home Parks)
      Chapter 4715   -   Minnesota Plumbing Code
      Chapter 7672
      Chapter 7674
      Chapter 7676   -   Minnesota Energy Code
      Chapter 7678
§ 150.02 HOUSING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Uniform Housing Code, Volume III, most recent edition, published
by the International Conference of Building Officials, is hereby adopted by
reference as though set forth verbatim herein. Three copies of such code shall
be marked "CITY OF WORTHINGTON - OFFICIAL COPY" and kept on file in the office
of the City Clerk and open for inspection and use by the public.
   (B)   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the office of the City
Engineer, who shall be designated as Building Official.
   (C)   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the code hereby adopted,
it shall refer to the city.
   (D)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall be designated by the Mayor to act as
the Housing Advisory and Appeals Board.
('69 Code, § 7-21.03)
§ 150.03 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   Every building bigger than 1,000 cubic feet in size that is moved over a
public street shall require a moving permit from the city's Engineering
Department. There shall be a $5 fee for the permit. This requirement applies to
buildings with an origin or destination within the city and to buildings moved
through the city. Moving permit applications shall include dimensions and
weight of the building and route to be followed in the move. The applicant
shall pay in advance for labor and material costs (police, utility changes and
repairs) to the city.
('69 Code, § 7-21.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.04 PLUMBERS.
   (A)   Plumbing license required. No person shall engage in or work at the
business of a master plumber or journeyman plumber unless licensed to do so by
the State Board of Health. A master plumber may also work as a journeyman
plumber. Anyone not so licensed may do plumbing work which complies with the
provisions of the minimum standard prescribed by the State Board of Health on
premises or that part of premises owned and actually occupied by him or her as
his or her residence. Minnesota State licensed plumbers shall obtain a permit
from the city to engage in or work at the business of plumbing within the
corporate limits of the city. Upon application on a form prescribed by the
city, a license shall be issued without charge.
   (B)   Plumbing Inspector: qualifications and appointment.
      (1)   There is hereby created the office of Plumbing Inspector. The
person chosen to fill the office of Plumbing Inspector shall be of good moral
character, shall be possessed of such executive ability as is requisite for the
performance of his or her duties and shall have a thorough knowledge of the
standard materials and methods used in the installation of modern plumbing. He
or she shall be well versed in the approved methods of plumbing construction
for safety of persons and property, the statutes of the state related to
plumbing work, and any orders, rules
and regulations issued by authority thereof. He or she shall have a valid state
Masters Plumbing License.
      (2)   The salary to be paid to the Plumbing Inspector shall be determined
by the Council.
   (C)   Duties of the Plumbing Inspector. It shall be the duty of the Plumbing
Inspector to enforce the provisions of this section. He or she shall upon
application grant permits for the installation or alteration of plumbing
fixtures and equipment and plumbing systems and shall make inspections of
plumbing installations all as provided in this section. He or she shall keep
complete records of all permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and
other official work performed in accordance with the provisions of this
section. The Plumbing Inspector is empowered to employ, after receiving the
approval of the Council, any assistant inspectors and clerical assistants
necessary for the proper conduct of his or her office and the inspection of
plumbing installation as provided for in this section. The salaries of such
assistants shall be determined and fixed by the Council.
   (D)   Authority of Plumbing Inspector. The Plumbing Inspector shall have the
right during reasonable hours to enter any building or premises in the
discharge of his or her official duties or for the purpose of making any
inspection or reinspections or test of plumbing installations, systems or
equipment contained therein. When any plumbing equipment, fixture or
installations are found by the Plumbing Inspector to be dangerous to persons or
property because it is defective or defectively installed or does not meet
appropriate minimum standards, the person responsible for the plumbing
equipment, fixtures or installation shall be notified in writing and shall make
any changes or repairs required in the judgment of the Plumbing Inspector to
place such equipment, fixtures or installation of system in a safe condition,
and if such work is not completed within 15 days or any longer period that may
be specified by the Plumbing Inspector in such notice, the Plumbing Inspector
shall have the authority to disconnect or order the discontinuance of plumbing
service and sewage disposal service to the premises in question. In case of
emergency where necessary to insure the safety of persons or property or where
plumbing fixtures, equipment or plumbing system may interfere with municipal
operations, the Plumbing inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or
cause the disconnection immediately thereof.
   (E)   Permits. No plumbing systems, equipment or fixtures shall be installed
contrary to this section within or on any building, structure or premises,
publicly or privately owned, nor shall any alteration or addition thereto or to
existing fixtures, equipment or systems be made without first securing a permit
therefor from the Plumbing Inspector, except that no permit will be required to
execute any of the classes of plumbing work specified in the following
divisions:
      (1)   Public service corporations shall not be required to obtain permits
or inspections for work upon or in connection with their own properties.
      (2)   Manufacturers shall not be required to obtain permits or inspection
for work incorporated within equipment as a part of product manufacturing.
Application for such permit, describing the work to be done, shall be made in
writing to the Plumbing Inspector by the person installing the work. The
application shall be accompanied by such plans, specifications and schedules as
may be necessary to determine whether the installations as described will be in
conformity with the requirements of this section. If it shall be found that the
installation as described will conform with all legal requirements and if the
applicant has complied with all provisions of this section, a permit for such
installation shall be issued.
   (F)   Permits and inspections and fees therefor. The Council shall
promulgate and make public such regulations and provisions for applications for
and issuance of permits and making of inspections as the Council may from time
to time deem expedient and proper. The Council may further from time to time
provide for such fees, permits and inspections incident to or in connection
with the intent and purpose of this section as the Council may deem expedient.
   (G)   Inspections and certificates. Upon the completion of any installation
of plumbing or plumbing fixtures or equipment which has been made under a
permit, it shall be the duty of the person making the installation to give
notice of the completion thereof to the Plumbing Inspector within 24 hours,
exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays or as soon thereafter as
practicable, to permit the Plumbing Inspector to make inspection thereof. When
a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection and use of a
temporary installation, such certificate shall be issued to expire at a time to
be stated therein and shall be revocable by the Plumbing Inspector for cause.
When any plumbing equipment is to be hidden from view by the permanent
placement of parts of a building or by filling with earth or other material,
the person installing the equipment shall notify the Plumbing Inspector and
such equipment shall not be concealed until it has been inspected and approved
by the Plumbing Inspector or until 24 hours exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays shall have elapsed from the time of such notification; provided, that
on large installment, where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously,
the person installing the plumbing equipment shall give the Plumbing Inspector
due notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the process of the
work. At regular intervals the Plumbing Inspector may visit the premises where
work may be done under annual permits and may inspect all plumbing equipment
installed under such permit since the date of his or her last previous
inspection and shall issue a certificate of approval for such work as is found
to be in conformity with the provisions of this section, after the fee required
has been paid. If under inspection the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this section, the Plumbing Inspector shall at
once deliver personally or by mail to the person making the installation a
written notice stating the defects which have been found to exist.
   (H)   Connection to installations. It is unlawful for any person to make
connections with municipal water or sewage disposal systems with any plumbing
installation, fixtures or system for the installation of which a permit is
required. The public or private water or sewer utility providing service shall
discontinue the same upon a written order from the Plumbing Inspector, if the
Inspector considers any plumbing installation unsafe to life and property or
installed contrary to the code.
   (I)   Board of Review. The Council shall act as a Board of Review under this
section. Any person may register an appeal with the Council for a review of any
decision of the Plumbing Inspector, provided that such appeal is made in
writing within five days after such person shall have been notified by such
decision by the Plumbing Inspector. Upon receipt of such appeal the Council
shall proceed to determine whether the decision of the Plumbing Inspector
complies with this section and within five days shall make a decision in
accordance with its findings.
   (J)   Liability for damages. This section shall not be construed to affect
the responsibility or liability for any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any plumbing equipment for damages to persons or property caused by
any defect therein nor shall the city be held as assuming any such liability by
reason of the inspection or reinspection authorized herein or the certificate
of approval issued as herein provided or by reason of the approval or
disapproval of any equipment authorized herein.
('69 Code, § 4.22) (Ord. 534, eff. 9-4-74)
RENTAL HOUSING CODE
§ 150.10 RENTAL HOUSING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Legislative finding. It is hereby found that there exist and may in
the future exist, within the city, residential rental premises, rooming units
or parts thereof, and renter-occupied mobile homes which, by reason of their
structure, equipment, sanitation, maintenance, use or occupancy, affect or are
likely to affect adversely the public health, including the physical, mental
and social well-being of persons and families, safety and general welfare. To
correct and prevent the existence of such adverse conditions, to achieve and
maintain such levels of residential environmental quality as will protect and
promote public health, safety and general welfare, preserve property values and
prevent blight, it is further found that the establishment and enforcement of
minimum housing standards are required.
   (B)   Purpose.  It is hereby declared that the purpose of this section is to
protect, preserve and promote the physical and mental health and social well-
being of the people, to prevent and control the incidence of communicable
diseases, to reduce environmental hazards to health, to regulate privately and
publicly-owned rental units for the purpose of maintaining adequate sanitation
and public health, and to protect the safety of the people and to promote the
general welfare by legislation which shall be applicable to all rental housing
units, as defined herein, now in existence or hereafter constructed. It is
hereby further declared that the purpose of this section is to ensure that the
quality of rental housing units is adequate for protection of public health,
safety and general welfare, including: establishment of minimum standards for
basic equipment and facilities, for light, ventilation, the thermal conditions,
for safety from fire and accidents, for the use and location and amount of
space for human occupancy, and for an adequate level of maintenance;
determination of the responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants of
dwellings; and provision for the administration and enforcement thereof.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply uniformly to the
construction, maintenance, use and occupancy of all rental residential units
and structures and to all renter-occupied mobile homes, and shall apply
uniformly to the alteration, repair, equipment, use, occupancy and maintenance
of all rental residential units and structures, inclusive of rental units in
mixed-use structures, and to all renter-occupied mobile homes within the
jurisdiction of the city, irrespective of when or under what code or codes such
buildings or structures were originally constructed or rehabilitated. However,
the provisions of this section shall not apply to any county, state, or
federally licensed facilities/units.
   (D)   Schedule of fees and fines.
      (1)   The City Council shall adopt a schedule of fees and administrative
fines to defray the cost of inspection, enforcement, and administration of the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   In the event an owner fails or refuses to allow entry into the
rental property for inspection purposes, and the city is required to obtain a
court order allowing the city to do so, the owner shall, in addition to any
other fees or fines, be liable for all fees and costs incurred by the city in
connection with the enforcement of the rental housing code, including attorney
fees. Such fees and costs shall be in addition to any other remedies available
to the city under the rental housing code under divisions (R) and (S) of the
rental housing code, including the designation of the property as "unfit for
human habitation, the prohibition of occupancy of the property, by the current
or future occupants, or the demolition of the dwelling or other improvement of
the property as deemed necessary to eliminate the hazard to the public or
occupant.
   (E)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section. Whenever the words "dwelling,"
"dwelling unit," "rooming units," "premises," or "structure" are used in this
section, said words shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any
part thereof." Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
the singular; the masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine the
masculine.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. Any subordinate structure detached from but located
on the same lot, as the term "lot" is defined in §
155.010, as the primary structure, the use of which is incidental and accessory
to that of the primary structure.
      APPROPRIATE AUTHORITY. Any city employee or contract employee charged by
the City Administrator with enactment of this section.
      ATTIC. Any story situated wholly or partly within the roof, and so
designated, arranged or built as to be used for business, storage or
habitation.
      DORMITORY. A building or a group of rooms in a building used for
institutional living and sleeping purposes by four or more persons.
      DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants, provided that temporary
housing, as defined in this division (D), shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room occupied by one or more persons used or intended
for living, cooking, eating or sleeping purposes, but does not include
bathrooms, closets, water closet compartments, laundries, serving and storage
pantries, corridors, cellars and spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods.
      HABITABLE SPACE. The square feet of floor space in a dwelling unit
multiplied by the number of stories, excluding the basement unless the basement
is specifically designed for occupancy with egress facilities.
      HEATING DEVICE. All furnaces, unit heaters, domestic incinerators,
cooking and heating stoves and ranges, domestic water heaters and other similar
devices.
      KITCHEN. Any room used for the storage of foods, preparation of foods and
containing the following equipment: sink and/or other device for dishwashing,
stove or other device for cooking, refrigerator or other device for cool
storage of food, cabinets and/or shelves for storage of equipment and utensils,
and counter or table for food preparation.
      KITCHENETTE. A small kitchen or an alcove containing cooking facilities.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of individuals permitted to
reside in a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or dormitory.
      PREMISES. A tract of land including its building(s).
      PRIVACY. The existence of conditions which will permit an individual or
individuals to carry out an activity commenced without interruption or
interference, either by sight or sound, by unwanted individuals.
      RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit
which is leased by the owner or the owner's licensee to another party and any
renter-occupied mobile home.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or motel or that part of
any dwelling, containing one or more rooming units, and/or one or more
dormitory rooms and in which persons either individually or as families are
housed with or without meals being provided.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
      SMOKE OR FIRE DETECTION DEVICE. A device which gives an alarm when it
detects smoke or other emissions from a fire and meets the requirements of any
standards established by laws, rules or regulations established by or adopted
by the State of Minnesota.
      SPACE HEATER. A self-contained heating appliance of either the convection
type or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only a limited space or
area such as one room or two adjoining rooms.
      STRUCTURE. A building constructed with the intent that the primary use be
residential.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the control of the
owner, operator or agent.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, mobile home or any other structure
used for human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not
permanently attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utility
system on the same premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (F)   Conflict of ordinances; effect of partial invalidity.
      (1)   In any case where a provision of this section is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire safety or health
ordinance or code of this city existing on the effective date of this section,
or of any state or federal statute, rule or regulation, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a provision of this
section is found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or
code of this city existing on the effective date of this section which
establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and
safety of the people, the provisions of this section shall be deemed to
prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed
to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this section.
      (2)   If any division, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
section should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this section, which shall remain in
full force and effect; and to this end, the provisions of this section are
hereby declared to be severable.
   (G)   Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
      (1)   No owner or other person shall occupy a dwelling or dwelling unit
or let to another person any rental unit unless it and the premises are clean,
sanitary, fit for human occupancy, and comply with all applicable legal
requirements of the state and the city.
      (2)   Every owner of a rental unit containing two or more dwelling units
shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public area of
the rental unit and premises thereof.
      (3)   Every occupant of a rental unit shall maintain in a clean and
sanitary condition that part or those parts of the rental unit and premises
thereof that the occupant occupies and controls.
      (4)   Every occupant of a rental unit shall store and dispose of all the
occupant's rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner.
      (5)   Every occupant of a rental unit shall store and dispose of all the
occupant's garbage, refuse and any other organic waste which might provide food
for insects and/or rodents in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 52.
      (6)   The owner shall ensure that the city's municipal waste contractor
provides solid waste containers to meet the needs of the occupants of the
dwelling.
      (7)   Every owner of rental units containing three or more dwelling units
shall supply facilities or refuse containers for the sanitary and safe storage
and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the case of single- or two-family
dwellings, it may be the responsibility of each occupant to furnish such
facilities or refuse containers however, the owner shall retain the obligation
to ensure the occupant fulfills the requirement of such items.
      (8)   The owner of a rental unit shall be responsible for providing and
hanging all screens, storm windows, and storm doors whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this section or any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant thereto.
      (9)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, vermin, and rats on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
or her dwelling unit is the only one infested. If the occupant does not accept
such responsibility and fails to comply, the owner shall either cause
compliance by the occupant or accept responsibility for the extermination of
insects, vermin, and rats on the premises. Regardless of any agreement, written
or oral, the owner has with the occupant, the final responsibility remains with
the owner. Termite control shall always be the responsibility of the owner.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division (G)(9), whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a rat-
proof or reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the
dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (10)   No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall accumulate
rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal or any other materials in such a manner
that may provide a rat harborage in or about any dwelling or dwelling unit or
on the premises on which the dwelling or dwelling unit is located.
      (11)   No owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall accumulate or permit the accumulation of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap
metal or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat, insect or
vermin harborage in or about the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its
premises.
      (12)   No owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store,
place or allow to accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rats or
vermin in a site accessible to rats or vermin or food for insects in a site
accessible to insects.
      (13)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied fixtures
and facilities therein in a clean, sanitary and operable condition and shall be
responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation
thereof. The owner shall ensure that the occupant fulfills this responsibility.
      (14)   In every dwelling unit and/or rooming unit when the control of the
supplied heat is the responsibility of a person other than the occupant, a
temperature of at least 68ºF shall be maintained in all habitable rooms,
bathroom and water closet compartments.
      (15)   Every owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall provide and
maintain the dwelling or dwelling unit free from hazards to health due to the
presence of toxic substances as determined by the appropriate authority. Every
occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain the dwelling or dwelling
unit free from hazards to health due to the presence of toxic substances as
determined by the appropriate authority.
      (16)   No owner or occupant shall apply a lead-based paint to any surface
in any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house and/or rooming unit.
   (H)   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities. No person shall
occupy or let to another person for occupancy any rental unit, for the purpose
of living, sleeping, cooking or eating therein, which does not comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area
and which shall be equipped with the following:
         (a)   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected
to a water supply system which is approved by the appropriate authority and
which provides at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated running
water under pressure and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the
appropriate authority.
         (b)   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking, and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not, under ordinary summer
conditions, require refrigeration for safe-keeping; and a counter or table for
food preparation. Said cabinets and/or shelves and counter or table shall be of
sound construction furnished with surfaces that are easily cleanable and that
will not impart any toxic or harmful effect to food.
         (c)   A stove/oven, or similar appliance, in working order and with
all controls, designed for cooking food shall be provided by the owner.
Microwaves shall not be considered a suitable appliance to satisfy this
section. A refrigerator or similar device, for the safe storage of food at
temperatures less than 45ºF but more than 32ºF under ordinary maximum summer
conditions, which are properly installed with all necessary connections for
safe, sanitary and efficient operation must also be provided. Sufficient space
and adequate connections for the safe and efficient installation and operation
of such devices must be provided.
      (2)   Within every dwelling and dwelling unit there shall be a non-
habitable room which affords privacy to a person within said room and which is
equipped with a flush water closet in good working condition. Said flush water
closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable surfaces, be properly connected
to a water system that at all times provides an adequate amount of running
water under pressure to cause the water closet to be operated properly and
shall be properly connected to a sewer system which is approved by the
appropriate authority.
      (3)   Within every dwelling and dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory
sink. Said lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet or,
if located in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close
proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which said water closet
is located. The lavatory sink shall be in good working condition and properly
connected to a water supply system which is approved by the appropriate
authority and which provides at all times an adequate amount of heated and
unheated running water under pressure, and which is properly connected to a
sewer system approved by the appropriate authority. Water inlets for lavatory
sinks shall be located above the overflow rim of these facilities.
      (4)   Within every dwelling and dwelling unit there shall be a room which
affords privacy to a person within said room and which is equipped with a
bathtub or shower in good working condition. Said bathtub or shower may be in
the same room as the flush water closet or in another room and shall be
properly connected to a water supply system which is approved by the
appropriate authority and which provides at all times an adequate amount of
heated and unheated water under pressure, and which is connected to a sewer
system approved by the appropriate authority. Water inlets for bathtubs shall
be located above the overflow rim of these facilities.
      (5)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have at least two means of
egress (two doors or one door and one egress window) leading to safe and open
space at ground level. Every dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling shall have
immediate access to two or more approved means of egress leading to safe and
open space at ground level, or as required by the laws of Minnesota. Bedrooms
located below the fourth floor shall be provided with an exterior door or
window of such dimensions as will permit the door or window to be used as a
means of emergency egress. All parts of a means of egress shall be maintained
in good operating condition.
      (6)   Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps
containing four risers or more. Porches, patios, and/or balconies located more
than 30 inches higher than the adjacent area shall have structurally sound
protective guard or handrails.
      (7)   Access to or egress from each dwelling unit shall be provided
without passing through any other dwelling unit.
      (8)   No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit unless all exterior doors leading directly into the dwelling or
dwelling unit are equipped with functioning locking devices.
      (9)   Each dwelling unit shall have at least one fire extinguisher with a
minimum UL rating of at least 2-A:10-B:C in the kitchen. Fire extinguisher
shall be located in an easily accessible location and maintained in good
working condition at all times.
      (10)   In addition to the requirements of division (H)(9), all buildings
containing three or more dwelling units, shall supply on each floor, including
the basement, one fire extinguisher with a minimum UL rating of at least 2-A:
10-B:C. Fire extinguisher shall be conspicuously and conveniently located so
that the extinguisher is not more than five feet, nor less than two feet, above
the floor in public halls or corridors and so maintained as to be in good
working condition at all time.
      (11)   At least one smoke or fire detection device must be located on
each level of the dwelling unit. On the level containing the kitchen, the smoke
or fire detection device must be located within ten feet of the kitchen.
Additionally, one smoke or fire detection device must be located in each room
used for sleeping, plus one within ten feet of the outside each room used for
sleeping (or one outside a group of rooms used for sleeping). The smoke or fire
detection device outside sleeping rooms may qualify as the required one for
that level so as long as all other requirements specified are met.
      (12)   At least one carbon monoxide detector shall be located on each
level of a dwelling unit.
   (I)   Minimum standards for light and ventilation.
      (1)   No person shall let to another for occupancy any rental unit, for
the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the requirements of
this section:
         (a)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing outdoors, provided that if connected to a room or area used seasonally
(e.g. porch) adequate daylight must be possible through this interconnection.
         (b)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly outdoors which can be opened easily or such other device as
will ventilate the room adequately, provided that if connected to a room or
area used seasonally then adequate ventilation must be possible through this
interconnection.
      (2)   When facilities for interior climate control (heating, cooling,
and/or humidity) are integral functions of structures containing dwelling units
or rooming units, such facilities shall be maintained and operated in a
continuous manner and in accordance with the designed capacity of the installed
equipment.
      (3)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be connected to a public
electric utility and all public and common areas shall be supplied with
electric service, outlets and fixtures which shall be properly installed, shall
be maintained in good and safe working condition and shall be connected to a
source of electric power in a manner prescribed by the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city and state. The minimum capacity of such services and
the minimum number of outlets and fixtures shall be as follows:
         (a)   Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with at least one 60-
ampere service and such service shall not be shared with another dwelling unit,
unless such service is accessible to all occupants of the structure.
         (b)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two separate wall-
type duplex electric convenience outlets or one such duplex convenience outlet
and one permanently installed wall or ceiling type electric light fixture. No
duplex outlet shall serve more than two fixtures or appliances.
         (c)   Temporary wiring or extension cords shall not be used as
permanent wiring.
         (d)   All electric lights and outlets in bathrooms shall be controlled
by switches which are of such design as shall minimize the danger of electric
shock, and such lights and outlets shall be installed and maintained in such
condition as to minimize the danger of electrical shock.
         (e)   Provided the dwelling or dwelling unit is not unsafe, a dwelling
or dwelling unit which does not meet the minimum requirements as set forth in
this section on the date this section is adopted shall be allowed to continue
in noncompliance until the dwelling unit has to be repaired or remodeled.
      (4)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by natural or artificial light at all times, so as to
provide in all parts thereof at least ten footcandles of light at the tread of
floor level. Every public hall and stairway in structures containing not more
than two dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located light
switches controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when
needed instead of full-time lighting.
   (J)   Minimum thermal standards. No person shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy any rental unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does
not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Every dwelling shall have heating equipment and appurtenances which
are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working condition, and
are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located therein to a
temperature of at least 68ºF.
      (2)   No owner or occupant shall install, operate or use a heating
device, including hot water heating units, which employs the combustion of
carbonaceous fuel, which is not vented to the outside of the structure in an
approved manner, and which is not supplied with sufficient air to continuously
support the combustion of the fuel. All heating devices shall be constructed,
installed and operated in such a manner as to minimize accidental burns.
   (K)   Safe and sanitary maintenance of parts of dwellings and dwelling
units. No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any rental unit,
for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and interior wall, ceiling,
inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto, shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be
placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every
inside and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads
and head room of at least six feet, eight inches as measured from the nose of
the tread to the ceiling or other upper obstruction. An inside or outside stair
which does not have uniform risers and uniform treads and head room as
specified on the effective date of this section shall be allowed to continue to
exist until such time as the stairs are repaired or replaced.
      (2)   Every foundation, roof and exterior wall, door, skylight and window
shall be reasonably weather-tight, water-tight and damp-free and shall be kept
in sound condition and good repair. Floors, interior walls and ceilings shall
be sound and in good repair. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by a protective
covering or treatment. Walls shall be capable of affording privacy for the
occupants. Repairs may be required when conditions requiring the repair pose a
threat to the health or safety of the occupants, or when the structural/
physical integrity of the dwelling is adversely affected.
      (3)   Every premises shall be graded, drained, and maintained in a clean,
sanitary and safe condition.
      (4)   Unless other provisions are made, existing gutters, leaders and
downspouts shall be maintained in good working condition as to provide proper
drainage of stormwater.
      (5)   Every window, exterior door and hatchway or similar device shall be
so constructed to exclude insects during that portion of the year when there is
a need for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects.
      (6)   Every dwelling, multiple dwelling, rooming house or accessory
structure and the premises on which located shall be maintained in a rat-free
and rat-proof condition.
         (a)   All windows located at or near ground level used or intended to
be used for ventilation, all other openings located at or near ground level,
and all exterior doorways which might provide an entry for rats shall be
supplied with adequate screens or such other devices as will effectively
prevent the entrance of rats into the structure.
         (b)   All sewers, pipes, drains or conduits and openings around such
pipes and conduits shall be constructed to prevent the ingress or egress of
rats to or from a building.
         (c)   Interior floors of basements, cellars and other areas in contact
with the soil shall be rat- proofed in a manner which will effectively prevent
entry of rats.
         (d)   Except for fire wood, no stacking or piling of material shall
take place against the exterior walls of the structure.
      (7)   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent or
tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound and
be maintained in good repair and free of insects and rats, or such structures
shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of such structures shall be
made weather-resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials or
preservatives. Repairs may be required when conditions requiring the repair
adversely affect the physical/structural integrity of the accessory structure.
      (8)   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be
properly installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition and shall
be free of leaks.
      (9)   Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen subfloor
surface shall be constructed and maintained, which is reasonably impervious to
water and which will permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (10)   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this section to be removed from or
shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let or
occupied by such person except for such temporary interruption as may be
necessary while actual repairs or alterations are in process or during
temporary emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the
appropriate authority.
      (11)   All construction and materials, ways and means of egress and
installation and use of equipment shall conform with the appropriate statutes,
ordinances and regulations dealing with fire protection of this city and the
state.
   (L)   Maximum density, minimum space, use and location requirements. No
person shall occupy or let to be occupied any rental unit, for the purpose of
living therein, unless there is compliance with the requirements of this
section:
      (1)   The maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit shall not exceed the
following requirement: For the first occupant there shall be at least 150
square feet of floor space and there shall be at least 100 square feet of floor
space for every additional occupant thereof; the floor space to be calculated
on the basis of total habitable room area.
      (2)   The ceiling height of any habitable room shall be at least seven
feet; except that in any habitable room under a sloping ceiling at least 1/2 of
the floor area shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet, and the
floor area of that part of such a room where the ceiling height is less than
five feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area in computing the
total floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the maximum
permissible occupancy. Minimum height requirements shall not be applicable to
habitable rooms that are in existence at the time of adoption of this section.
      (3)   Every dwelling unit shall have closet/storage space for the
personal effects of each permissible occupant.
      (4)   All rooms used for sleeping shall have a minimum of 70 square feet
for one occupant. In the case of multiple occupants there shall be a minimum of
50 square feet per person.
   (M)   Rooming house, rooming units, dormitories, dormitory rooms.
      (1)   No person shall operate a rooming house or dormitory, or shall
occupy or let to another for occupancy any dormitory room and/or rooming unit
in any rooming house or dormitory, which is not in compliance with the
appropriate provisions of this section. No owner shall let to another person
any rooming unit or dormitory room unless it is clean and sanitary, and
complies with all applicable requirements of the city.
      (2)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless the person holds a
valid rental registration license issued by the city in the name of the
operator and for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall
apply to the city upon compliance by the operator with the applicable
provisions of this section and of any rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto. The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place within the
rooming house at all times. No such license shall be transferable. Every person
holding such a permit shall give notice in writing to the city within 24 hours
after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of ownership
of, interest in or control of any rooming house. Such notice shall include the
name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such
rooming house. Every license shall expire at the end of one year following its
date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided.
      (3)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the city and
in good working condition, shall be supplied for each six persons or fraction
thereof residing within a rooming house, including members of the operator's
family wherever they share the use of the facilities, provided that:
         (a)   In a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush
urinals may be substituted for not more than 1/2 the required number of water
closets and provided that there shall be at least one water closet.
         (b)   All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as
to be reasonably accessible to all persons sharing such facilities and from a
common hall or passageway. Such facilities shall not be located more than one
floor above or below the rooming unit or units served.
         (c)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower stall be supplied
with heated and unheated water under pressure at all times.
      (4)   The following provisions shall apply in all rooming houses and
dormitories:
         (a)   Cooking in dormitory rooms and rooming units is prohibited.
         (b)   Access doors to rooming units, dormitory rooms, shall have
operating locks to ensure privacy.
      (5)   Every rooming unit shall comply with all the requirements of this
section pertaining to a habitable room. Every rooming unit occupied by one
person shall contain at least 110 square feet of floor space and every rooming
unit occupied by more than one person shall contain at least 90 square feet for
each occupant thereof. Every rooming unit shall contain closet/storage space
for each occupant.
      (6)   Every rooming unit shall have immediate access to two or more
approved means of egress, appropriately marked, leading to safe and open space
at ground level or as required by the appropriate statutes, ordinances, and
regulations of this city and the state.
      (7)   Access to or egress from each rooming unit shall be provided
without passing through any other rooming unit.
   (N)   Collection and dissemination of information. The appropriate authority
is hereby authorized to collect and disseminate information concerning
techniques of maintenance, repair, and sanitation in housing, and concerning
the requirements of this section and applicable rules and regulations issued
pursuant thereto.
   (O)   Plans of inspection by the appropriate authority.
      (1)   The appropriate authority is hereby authorized and directed to
develop and adopt plans for the inspection of rental units subject to the
provisions of this section, including:
         (a)   A plan for the systematic inspection of rental housing units
contained within this city as follows:
            1.   Every three years: All rental units contained within this city
shall be inspected a minimum of once every three years.
            2.   Annually: Rental units found to be in violation of the
provisions of this section upon inspection, or units which complaints that are
deemed to be valid, shall be inspected annually. If the unit receives a good
inspection upon the next two regularly scheduled inspections, and has not been
subject to any complaint-based inspections within that time period, the unit
shall then be placed back on the three-year inspection cycle.
            3.   Exception for new construction: Newly constructed single and
multiple family dwelling units shall not be subject to inspections for a period
of five years from the date a certificate of occupancy is issued by the
authorized Building Official.
   (P)   Inspections; powers and duties of the appropriate authority.
      (1)   The appropriate authority shall enforce the provisions of this
section and is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections pursuant to
one or more of the plans for inspection authorized by division (O); or in
response to a complaint that an alleged violation of the provisions of this
section or of applicable rules or regulations pursuant thereto may exist, or
when the appropriate authority has valid reason to believe that a violation of
this section or any rules and regulations pursuant thereto has been or is being
committed. In the event of a tenant complaint, the appropriate authority shall
attempt to contact the manager or owner to verify and clarify the complaint
prior to acting on the complaint.
      (2)   The appropriate authority is hereby authorized to enter and
inspect, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday,
all rental units subject to the provisions of this section for the purpose of
determining whether there is compliance with its provisions.
      (3)   The appropriate authority is hereby authorized to inspect the
premises surrounding dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units,
dormitories and dormitory rooms subject to this section, for the purpose of
determining whether there is compliance with its provisions.
      (4)   The appropriate authority and the owner, occupant or other person
in charge of a rental unit subject to this section may agree to an inspection
by appointment at a time other than the hours provided in division (P)(2) of
this section.
      (5)   The owner, occupant or other person in charge of a rental unit,
upon presentation of proper identification by the appropriate authority of a
copy of any relevant plan of inspection pursuant to which entry is sought, and
a schedule of the specific areas and facilities to be inspected, shall give the
appropriate authority entry and free access to every part of the rental unit or
to the premises surrounding any rental unit.
      (6)   If any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a rental unit
subject to licensing under division (Q) fails or refuses to permit free access
and entry to the structure or premises under his or her control or any part
thereof with respect to which an inspection authorized by this section is
sought to be made, the appropriate authority may impose a fine pursuant to
division (D). If the owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a rental
unit continues to refuse the appropriate authority entry to inspect, the
appropriate authority shall impose a second fine pursuant to division (D) and
seek, the necessary legal authority, from a court of competent jurisdiction, to
conduct the inspection.
   (Q)   Licensing of the operation of all residential rental units and
structures inclusive of rental units in mixed-use structures and renter-
occupied mobile homes.
      (1)   No person shall operate a rental unit unless he or she holds a
current, valid operating license issued by the appropriate authority in the
person's name for the specific named rental unit. Failure to comply with this
requirement shall result in a fine as set forth in division (D) and may result
in the filing of a criminal complaint.
      (2)   Every operating license shall be issued for a period of time in
accordance with the plan for the systematic inspection of rental housing units
to be developed by the appropriate authority pursuant to division (O) of this
section.
      (3)   The appropriate authority is hereby authorized upon application
therefor to issue new operating licenses, and renewals thereof, in the names of
applicant owners or operators of rental housing units. All rental housing units
must meet the applicable standards set forth in this section.
      (4)   No operating license shall be issued or renewed unless the
applicant owner or operator has first made application therefor on an
application form provided by the appropriate authority. The appropriate
authority shall develop such forms and make them available to the public.
      (5)   (a)   No operating license shall be issued or renewed unless the
applicant owner or operator agrees in his or her application to such
inspections pursuant to divisions (O)(1) and (P)(1) as the appropriate
authority may require to determine whether the rental housing unit in
connection with which such license is sought is in compliance with the
applicable provisions of this section and with applicable rules and regulations
pursuant thereto.
         (b)   In the event that a rental unit, which previously held a valid
operating license, is found to not be in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this sections, and the appropriate authority has exhausted all
means of enforcement as set forth in this section, the appropriate authority
shall not issue a renewal of the license and shall close the unit. Notice of
unit closure shall be posted on the front door of the unit or in a conspicuous
place on the premises.
      (6)   No operating license shall be issued or renewed unless the
completed application form is accompanied by payment of a license fee pursuant
to the schedule of fees included in the inspection plan developed by the
appropriate authority.
      (7)   No operating license shall be issued or renewed for an applicant,
unless such applicant resides within 75 miles of the City of Worthington or
designates in writing to the appropriate authority the name of applicant's
agent for the receipt of service of notice of violation of the provisions of
this section and for service of process pursuant to this section. The applicant
may designate any person residing within the 75 mile radius as required above.
      (8)   No operating license shall be renewed unless an application
therefor has been made within 60 days prior to the expiration of the present
operating license.
      (9)   No operating license for a rental unit shall be issued or renewed
if the real estate taxes assessed against the rental unit are not current.
      (10)   Each license shall be displayed in a common area within the
structure housing the rental housing units, provided the structure has a common
area.
      (11)   Any license for a particular property shall be transferable to
another person, provided that the person holding the operating license give
notice in writing to the appropriate authority within 15 working days after
having transferred or otherwise disposed of the legal control of the licensed
rental housing unit. Such notice shall include the name and address of the
person or persons succeeding to the ownership or control of such rental housing
unit.
   (R)   Notice of violation.
      (1)    Whenever the appropriate authority determines that any dwelling,
dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming unit or the premises surrounding any of
these fails to meet the requirements set forth in this section or in applicable
rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto, the appropriate authority, in
accordance with existing legislation, shall issue a notice setting forth the
alleged failures and advising the owner, occupant, operator or agent that such
failures must be corrected. This notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Set forth the alleged violations of this section or of
applicable rules and regulations issued pursuant thereto;
         (c)   Describe the dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, or rooming
unit where the violations are alleged to exist or to have been committed. Such
written notice shall specify an appropriate or acceptable method of correction;
         (d)   Specify a specific date for the correction of any violation
alleged;
         (e)   State that unless the violations cited are corrected by the date
set, a fine pursuant to division (D) shall be issued and the operating license
for the specific unit in violation may be suspended;
         (f)   Be served upon the owner, agent of the owner, occupant, or
operator, of the dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, or rooming unit
personally or by registered mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the
owner, occupant, operator or owner's agent. If one or more persons to whom such
notice is addressed cannot be found after diligent effort to do so, service may
be made upon such persons by posting the notice in or about the dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit described in the notice, or by causing such
notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation once each week for
a period of three successive weeks; or
         (g)   Be served upon a resident agent for the receipt of such services
of notices designated pursuant to division (Q)(7).
      (2)   At the end of the period of time allowed for the correction of any
violation alleged, the appropriate authority shall reinspect the dwelling,
dwelling unit, rental unit, or rooming unit described in the notice.
      (3)   If upon reinspection the violations are determined by the
appropriate authority not to have been corrected, the appropriate authority
shall issue a fine pursuant to division (D) and schedule a reinspection within
a date specified by the appropriate authority. A fee shall be charged pursuant
to division (D) for this second reinspection. If the violations are determined
to not have been corrected the appropriate authority shall initiate legal
proceedings for the immediate correction of the alleged violations or shall
order the dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, or rooming unit vacated within
30 days or both. In addition, the operating license of the owner shall be
suspended.
   (S)   Repairs and other corrective action; designation of unfit units and/or
structures; demolition.
      (1)   Repairs and other corrective action.
         (a)   Whenever an owner, operator, or agent of a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rental unit, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room fails, neglects or
refuses to make such repairs or other corrective action called for by the order
or notice of violation issued pursuant to division (R), the appropriate
authority may undertake such repairs or action, when in the judgment of such
authority a failure to make them will endanger the public health, safety or
welfare, and the cost of such repairs and action will not exceed 50% of the
fair market of the structure to be repaired.
         (b)   Notice of the intention to make such repairs or take other
corrective action shall be served upon the owner, operator, or upon the
designated agent for service pursuant to division (Q)(7).
         (c)   Every owner, operator, or agent of a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rental unit, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room who has received notice
of the intention of the approved authority to make repairs or take other
corrective action shall give entry and free access to the agent of the
appropriate authority for the purpose of making such repairs. Any owner,
operator, or agent of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming unit,
dormitory or dormitory room who refuses, impedes, interferes with or hinders or
obstructs entry by such agent pursuant to a notice of intention to make repairs
or take other corrective action shall be subject to a civil penalty pursuant to
division (D). In addition, the owner, operator or agent may be subject to
criminal penalties for which provision is made in §
10.99.
         (d)   When repairs are made or other corrective action taken at the
discretion of the appropriate authority, the cost of such repairs and
corrective action shall constitute a debt in favor of the city against the
owner of the repaired structure. In the event the owner fails, neglects or
refuses to pay the city the amount of this debt, it shall be recoverable in a
civil action against the owner or his or her successor, brought in a court of
competent jurisdiction by the city which shall possess all rights of a private
creditor.
      (2)   Designation of unfit dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses,
rooming units, dormitories and dormitory rooms.
         (a)   Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house, rooming
unit, dormitory or dormitory room shall be designated as unfit for human
habitation when any of the following defects or conditions are found, and when,
in the judgment of the appropriate authority, such defect creates a hazard to
the health, safety or welfare to occupants or of the public:
            1.   Such dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room is damaged, decayed, dilapidated,
unsanitary, unsafe, and/or vermin- infested and/or contains levels of hazardous
material which could be harmful to health;
            2.   The dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room lacks illumination, ventilation and/
or required sanitation facilities to the extent that it is violation of the
provisions of this section.
         (b)   Whenever any dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming
house, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room has been designated as unfit
for human habitation, the appropriate authority shall placard the dwelling,
dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room,
indicating that it is unfit for human habitation, and, if occupied, shall order
such dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, or rooming unit vacated within a
reasonable time.
         (c)   Whenever any dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming
house, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room has been placarded and
vacated, the appropriate authority shall order services and utilities to be
turned off or disconnected and all utility meters to be removed.
         (d)   No dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house, rooming
unit, dormitory or dormitory room which has been designated as unfit for human
habitation, has been placarded as such and vacated shall be used again for
human habitation until written approval is secured from the appropriate
authority and the placard removed by the appropriate authority.
         (e)   The appropriate authority shall rescind the designation as unfit
for human habitation and remove the placard when the defect or condition upon
which such designation and placarding was based has been removed or eliminated
and the dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house, rooming unit,
dormitory or dormitory room is deemed by the appropriate authority as a safe,
sanitary and fit place for human habitation.
         (f)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling,
dwelling unit, rental unit, rooming house, rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory
room which has been designated as unfit for human habitation and has been
placarded as such, except as provided in division (S)(2)(b) above.
         (g)   Any person affected by any decision of the appropriate authority
or by any designation or placarding of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rental unit,
rooming unit, dormitory or dormitory room as unfit for human habitation shall
be granted a hearing on the matter before the appropriate authority under the
procedure set forth in division (T) of this section.
      (3)   Demolition of dwellings, dwelling units, rental unit, rooming
houses, rooming units, dormitories or dormitory rooms designated as unfit for
human habitation. Any demolition necessary as a result of a designation that
the rental unit is unfit for human habitation must be done in accordance with
the applicable Minnesota statutes, rules and regulations.
   (T)   Appeals. There is hereby created a two-tiered appeals process. All
appeals decisions and findings shall be made part of the public record:
      (1)   Step 1. Any person aggrieved by a notice of the appropriate
authority issued in connection with any alleged violation of this section or of
any applicable rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto, or by any order
requiring repair or demolition, may apply to the appropriate authority for an
administrative conference with the duly appointed representative of the
appropriate authority for reconsideration of such notice or order, provided
such application is made within ten days after the date the notice or order was
issued. Upon conclusion of an administrative conference for reconsideration of
notice or order, the appropriate authority shall prepare a summary of the
conference and shall state the decision reached. Such summary and statement
shall become part of the public record.
      (2)   Step 2. If the appeal is not settled in Step 1 of the process, any
person aggrieved by a notice of the appropriate authority issued in connection
with any alleged violation of this section, or of any applicable rule or
regulation issued pursuant thereto, or by any order requiring repair or
demolition, may appeal to the Legislative Hearing Officer for a reconsideration
of such notice or order provided such application is made within ten days after
the date of the decision reached in Step 1. The appeal shall then proceed as
provided in
Chapter 31.
      (3)   The continued occupancy of the dwelling or rental unit by the
current tenant may continue during any appeal process hereunder unless the
appropriate authority deems that the violation of the rental housing code poses
an immediate hazard or danger to the occupant, in which case the property shall
be vacated immediately and not further occupied by anyone until the hazard or
danger has been abated or otherwise removed and the city determines resumed
occupancy does not pose an immediate hazard or danger to the occupant.
   (U)   Emergencies.
      (1)   Whenever, in the judgment of the appropriate authority, an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health,
safety or welfare, an order may be issued, without a hearing or appeal,
directing the owner, occupant, operator or agent to take such action as is
appropriate to correct or abate the emergency. If circumstances warrant, the
appropriate authority may act to correct or abate the emergency, including
removal of the tenants from the unit.
      (2)   The owner, occupant, operator or agent shall be afforded the
opportunity to appeal, as soon as practicable, any order issued as per this
section by following the procedure detailed in division (T), above. Such appeal
shall in no case stay the abatement or correction of such emergency.
   (V)   Penalty. Any owner, occupant, operator, or agent of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, or rooming unit who has received an order or notice of an
alleged violation of this section shall be subject to a penalty established in
accordance with division (D). Said penalty shall be enforced beginning on the
day that the alleged violation continues after expiration of the specified
reasonable consideration period.
   (W)   Criminal penalties. Any owner, occupant, operator, or agent of a
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit who rents a dwelling, dwelling unit,
or rooming unit without registering the dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming
unit as a rental unit or without a license to lease the dwelling, dwelling
unit, or rooming unit may be charged with a misdemeanor. See end of section.
   (X)   Violation a public nuisance. If the violation constitutes a nuisance
as such term is defined by Minnesota Statute or
Chapter 92, the Enforcing Officer may seek to abate the nuisance in accordance
with the provisions of
Chapter 92.
   (Y)   Private cause of action. Any person who has been damaged by a
violation of any provision of this chapter shall have a private civil cause of
action against the violator which may be brought in State District Court in the
manner provided by law. Any action brought under this section shall be tried to
the Court. The Court shall hear the evidence, and if the case is proven by a
preponderance of the evidence, the Court shall issue an order for appropriate
relief, which may include an award of monetary damages, injunctive relief or
other remedies which the Court believes will effectuate the purpose of this
chapter. If the Court finds that the person bringing the action prevails, the
Court shall award the person his/her costs, disbursements and a reasonable
attorney's fee for pursuing the action.
(Ord. 998, passed 12-11-06; Am. Ord. 1183, passed 6-27-22; Am. Ord. 1195,
passed 1-9-23)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: PLANNING
Section
   
151.01   Planning Commission
   
151.02   Adoption of program of work
   
151.03   Comprehensive Guide Plan
   
151.04   Zoning plan
   
151.05   Official map of street extensions
   
151.06   Procedure for changes
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   A City Planning Commission is hereby established. The Commission shall
consist of nine members. Six members shall be appointed by the City Council and
may be removed by a four-fifths vote of the Council; the Mayor shall elect one
member of the Commission from the Council members; and the Director of
Community/Economic Development and the City Attorney shall be non-voting
members ex officio. The members of the Commission first appointed shall hold
office until the second Tuesday of April, and thereafter two shall hold office
for the term of one year, two for the term of two years, and two for the term
of three years, thereafter for three year terms all commencing the second
Tuesday of April. Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years.
Both original and successive appointees shall hold their offices until their
successors are appointed and qualified. The term of ex officio members shall
correspond to their respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term
shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every
appointed member shall before entering upon the discharge of his duties take an
oath that he will faithfully discharge the duties of his office. All members
shall serve without compensation. ('69 Code, §§ 7-23.01, 7-23.02)
   (B)   The Commission shall elect a Chairman from among its appointed members
for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and fill such other
offices as it may determine. The Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting each month. It shall adopt rules for the transaction and findings,
which record shall be a public record and submit to the City Council a report
of their findings for the next regular Council meeting. Expenditures of the
Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City
Council. ('69 Code, § 7-23.03)
(Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06)
§ 151.02 ADOPTION OF PROGRAM OF WORK.
   (A)   Upon the appointment and organization of the Planning Commission, it
shall proceed with the preparation and adoption of resolution of the program of
work, outlining activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of its
powers and the performance of its duties. Such program will include:
      (1)   An outline of date and information to be assembled as a basis for
the Comprehensive Guide Plan.
      (2)   An outline of subject to be covered by the Comprehensive Guide
Plan.
      (3)   An outline of types of procedure necessary to make the city plan
effective.
      (4)   And such other work as may be referred to the Commission by the
City Council.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may, by resolution, revise its program of work
from time to time.
('69 Code, § 7-23.04) (Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06)
§ 151.03 COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE PLAN.
   (A)   Preparation. It shall be the function and duty of the Planning
Commission to prepare and adopt a Comprehensive Guide Plan for the physical
development and well being of the city, including proposed public buildings,
street arrangements and improvements, public utility services, parks,
playgrounds, and other similar developments, the use of property, the density
of population and other matters relating to the physical development and well
being of the city. Such plan may be prepared in sections, each of which shall
relate to a major subject of the plan, as outlines in the Commission's program
of work. ('69 Code, § 7-23.05)
   (B)   Procedure for adoption. Before adopting the plan or any section of it
or any substantial amendment thereof, the Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the
day of hearing. The adoption of the plan or of any section or amendment thereof
shall be by resolution of the Commission, approved by the affirmative votes of
not less than five-sevenths of those members present and voting, but not less
than four votes in any case. The Commission may from time to time amend or add
to the plan or section thereof as herein provided for the adoption of the
original plan whenever changed conditions or further studies by the Commission
indicate such amendment or addition is necessary. An attested copy of the plan
or any section, amendment, or addition to the plan adopted by the Planning
Commission shall be certified to the City Council. ('69 Code, § 7-23.06)
   (C)   Means of executing plan. Upon the adoption of the plan or any section
thereof, it shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to recommend to the
City Council reasonable and practicable means for putting into effect such plan
or section thereof in order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for
the orderly physical development of the city and as a basis for the efficient
expenditure of the funds thereof relating to the subjects of such plan. Such
means shall consist of a zoning plan, the control of subdivision plats, a plan
of future streets, coordination of the normal public improvements of the city,
a long term program of capital expenditures and such other matters as will
accomplish the purposes of this section. ('69 Code, § 7-23.07)
(Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06; Am. Ord. 1129, passed 11-26-18)
§ 151.04 ZONING PLAN.
   The Planning Commission, upon its own motion, may and upon instructions by
the City Council shall prepare a revised zoning plan for the city. Before
recommending such plan to the City Council, the Planning Commission shall hold
at least one public hearing thereon after a notice similar to that required by
§
151.03(B). The same procedure shall apply for the preparation of any plan of
proposed rights of way for future streets or highways, or the future widening
of existing streets or highways, or for the reservation of lands for other
public purposes.
('69 Code, § 7-23.08) (Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06)
§ 151.05 OFFICIAL MAP OF STREET EXTENSIONS.
   The Planning Commission, with the assistance of the City Engineer, may, and
upon instruction by the City Council, shall prepare an official map of the
platted and unplatted portions of the city and adjoining territory, or portions
thereof, indicating upon such map the proposed future extensions or widening of
streets of the city within such existing platted and developed territory or
across such unplatted territory.
   (A)   After such map has been prepared and a hearing on it has been held as
provided in § 151.04, it shall be submitted to the Council, which shall
thereupon consider such map and may adopt it or any part of it with such
amendments as it deems advisable. Before such adoption by the Council, public
hearing shall be held upon the proposal at least ten days after a notice
thereof has been published in a newspaper published in the city.
   (B)   After such map has been adopted by the Council, whenever any existing
street or highway is widened or improved, or whenever any new street is opened
or acquired by action of the city, it shall not be required in such proceedings
to pay for any buildings or structures whatsoever constructed upon such mapped
street, or situated outside of any building line that may have been established
upon existing street, or within any area thus reserved by the map for public
purposes if such building or structure has been placed there after the adoption
and publication of such map.
('69 Code, § 7-23.09) (Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06)
§ 151.06 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGES.
   No change shall be made in the zoning plan, future street and public lands
plan, or regulations governing the platting of land after such plans or
regulations have been adopted by the City Council, until the proposed change
shall have been referred to the Planning Commission for report thereon and an
attested copy of such report shall have been filed with the Council, and no
ordinance or resolution establishing any of such place or regulations shall be
adopted by the City Council until such ordinance or resolution shall have been
referred to the Planning Commission for a report thereon and an attested copy
of such report shall have been filed with the Council. Failure of the Planning
Commission to so report within 40 days or such longer period as may be
designated by the Council after such reference shall be deemed to be an
approval of the proposed change.
('69 Code, § 7-23.11) (Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06) Penalty, see §
151.99 
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the provisions of §
155.999.
('69 Code, § 7-23.10, Subd. 1) (Am. Ord. 992, passed 9-11-06)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact and Purpose
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Purpose
General Provisions
   
152.010   How to use this chapter
   
152.011   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.012   Incorporation of maps by reference
   
152.013   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
152.014   Interpretation
   
152.015   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.016   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.017   Severability
   
152.018   Definitions
   
152.019   Annexations
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
152.020   Districts
   
152.021   Compliance
Floodway District
   
152.030   Permitted uses
   
152.031   Standards for floodway permitted uses
   
152.032   Conditional uses
   
152.033   Standards for floodway conditional uses
Flood Fringe District
   
152.040   Permitted uses
   
152.041   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses
   
152.042   Conditional uses
   
152.043   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses
General Floodplain District
   
152.050   Permitted uses
   
152.051   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations
Land Development Standards
   
152.060   In general
   
152.061   Subdivisions
   
152.062   Building sites
Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, and Bridges
   
152.070   Public utilities
   
152.071   Public transportation facilities
   
152.072   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems
Manufactured Homes, Manufactured Home Parks and Recreational Vehicles
   
152.080   Manufactured home parks
   
152.081   Placement of manufactured homes
   
152.082   Recreational vehicles
Administration
   
152.090   Zoning Administrator
   
152.091   Permit requirements
   
152.092   Board of Adjustment and variances
   
152.093   Conditional uses
Nonconformities
   
152.100   Continuance of nonconformities
Penalties and Enforcement
   
152.110   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor
   
152.111   Other lawful action
   
152.112   Enforcement
Amendments
   
152.120   Floodplain designation - restrictions on removal
   
152.121   Amendments require DNR approval
   
152.122   Map revisions require ordinance amendments
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the State of Minnesota has, in M.S. Chapter 103F and M.S.
Chapter 462, delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City Council of
Worthington, Minnesota, does ordain as follows:
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
Worthington. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation, which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose
of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
minimizing these losses and disruptions.
   (B)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59 -78, as amended, so
as to maintain the community's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (C)   This chapter is also intended to preserve the natural characteristics
and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and
storm water impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect
aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide
aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.010 HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER.
   This chapter adopts the floodplain maps applicable to Worthington and
includes three floodplain districts: floodway, floodway fringe, and general
floodplain.
   (A)   Where floodway and flood fringe districts are delineated on the
floodplain maps, the standards for either district will apply, depending on the
location of a property.
   (B)   Locations where floodway and flood fringe districts are not delineated
on the floodplain maps are considered to fall within the general floodplain
district. Within the general floodplain district, the floodway district
standards shall apply unless the floodway boundary is determined, according to
the process outlined in §
152.051. Once the floodway boundary is determined, the flood fringe district
standards shall apply outside the floodway.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.011 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all lands within the jurisdiction of
Worthington shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as
being located within the boundaries of the floodway, flood fringe, or general
floodplain districts.
   (B)   The floodway, flood fringe and general floodplain districts are
overlay districts that are superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The
standards imposed in the overlay districts are in addition to any other
requirements in this chapter. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.012 INCORPORATION OF MAPS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following maps together with all attached material are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of the official zoning map and this
chapter. The attached material includes:
      (1)   The Flood Insurance Study for Nobles County, Minnesota, and
Incorporated Areas, dated May 19, 2014, and subsequently revised December 31,
2020 due to Letter of Map Revision 20-05-0776P;
      (2)   Flood Insurance Rate Map panels 27105C0265C, 27105C0270C,
27105C0382C, 27105C0402C, and 27105C0425C dated May 19, 2014;
      (3)   Flood Insurance Rate Map panels 27105C0263C, 27105C0264C,
27105C0401C, dated December 31, 2020.
   (B)   All materials have been prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. These materials are on file in the offices of the Department of
Community and Economic Development.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14; Am. Ord. 1167, passed 11-23-20)
§ 152.013 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) is determined as follows:
   (A)   In Zone AE, the RFPE is an elevation no lower than one foot above the
elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   (B)   In Zone AO, the RFPE is established by adding the depth number
specified in feet for the Zone AO on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps adopted in §
152.012 to the highest adjacent grade to a structure's proposed location on the
ground.
   (C)   Structures that were built in Zone AE prior to February 8, 1998, may
continue to use the definition of RFPE that existed at the time of construction
until such time as one of the two following situations arises, and then the new
definition of RFPE shall apply:
      (1)   The structure is destroyed by any means where the cost of repair of
the damage equals or exceeds 50% of the pre-damage market value of the
structure; or
      (2)   The existing structure is removed from the lot and the lot is to be
redeveloped.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.014 INTERPRETATION.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are determined by scaling distances
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   (A)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on
the official zoning map and actual field conditions, the flood elevations shall
be the governing factor. The Zoning Administrator must interpret the boundary
location based on the ground elevations that existed on the site on the date of
the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area within the
regulatory floodplain, and other available technical data.
   (B)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment
and to submit technical evidence.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.015 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or other private agreements. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail.
All other chapters inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.016 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter does not create liability on the part of Worthington or
its officers or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.017 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the remainder of this chapter
shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.018 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give this chapter
its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation of the regional flood. The term BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood insurance survey.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist.
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conforms to the comprehensive land
use plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FARM FENCE. As defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. l(a)-(d). An open type fence
of posts and wire is not considered to be a structure under this chapter.
Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows, such as chain link
fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures under this chapter.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. FLOOD
FRINGE is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Nobles County, Minnesota.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see FLOOD).
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
cany or store the regional flood discharge.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term recreational vehicle.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   ONE HUNDRED (100) YEAR FLOODPLAIN. Lands inundated by the regional flood
(see definition).
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this chapter, the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the
term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 1% chance
or 100-year recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term
BASE FLOOD used in a flood insurance study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway, with the exceptions detailed in §
152.013.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes
synonymous with ONE HUNDRED YEAR FLOODPLAIN.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
152.082(A) and other similar items.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
start of construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
      (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure. For the purpose of this chapter, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is as
defined in 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 59.1.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.019 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference into §
152.012 may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to the
provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of annexation.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.020 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway district. The floodway district includes those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
152.012. For Lake Okabena, the floodway district shall include those areas
designated as Zone AE that are at or below the ordinary high water level
elevation of 1578.5 feet (NAVD 1988) as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14.
   (B)   Flood fringe district. The flood fringe district includes those areas
designated as floodway fringe on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
152.012, as Zones AE or AO located outside of the floodway. For Lake Okabena,
the flood fringe includes those areas designated as Zone AE that are below the
1% annual chance flood elevation (100-year flood elevation) but above the
ordinary high water level elevation of 1578.5 feet.
   (C)   General floodplain district. The general floodplain district includes
those areas designated as Zone A or Zone AE without a floodway on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
152.012.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.021 COMPLIANCE.
   Within the floodplain districts established in this chapter, the use of any
land, the use, size, type and location of structures on lots, the installation
and maintenance of transportation, utility, water supply and waste treatment
facilities, and the subdivision of land must comply with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations. All uses not listed as permitted uses
or conditional uses in §§
152.030,
152.032,
152.040,
152.042, and
152.050, respectively, are prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided here
that:
   (A)   New and replacement manufactured homes and certain recreational
vehicles are subject to the general provisions of this chapter and specifically
§§
152.080 through
152.082.
   (B)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal maintenance
and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming structures and
nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the general
provisions of this chapter and specifically §
152.100.
   (C)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood proofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §
152.091 and §
152.093.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW)
§ 152.030 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses, subject to the standards set forth in §
152.032, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district or any applicable overlay district:
   (A)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
   (B)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
   (C)   Open space uses, including but not limited to private and public golf
courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat
launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game
farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
   (D)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
   (E)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and pipelines,
provided that the Department of Natural Resources' Area Hydrologist is notified
at least ten days prior to issuance of any permit, and that the standards in §§
152.033(A),
152.033(C)(1) and
152.033(F) are met.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.031 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAY PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
   (B)   With the exception of the uses listed in §
152.030(E), the use must not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and must not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public must
be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of four upon occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.032 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be allowed as conditional uses following the
standards and procedures set forth in §
152.093 and further subject to the standards set forth in §
152.033, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district or any
applicable overlay district.
   (A)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in §
152.030 and the following uses.
   (B)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
   (C)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water control
structures.
   (D)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
   (E)   Placement of fill or construction of fences that obstruct flood flows.
Farm fences, as defined in §
152.018, are permitted uses.
   (F)   Road-ready recreational vehicles meeting the exception standards in §
152.082.
   (G)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops for a frequency
flood event equal to or less than the 10-year frequency flood event.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.033 STANDARDS FOR FLOODWAY CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   All uses. A conditional use must not cause any increase in the stage
of the 1% chance or regional flood or cause an increase in flood damages in the
reach or reaches affected.
   (B)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or stored
in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by vegetative cover, mulching,
riprap or other acceptable method. Permanent sand and gravel operations and
similar uses must be covered by a long-term site development plan.
      (3)   Temporary placement of fill, other materials, or equipment which
would cause an increase to the stage of the 1% percent chance or regional flood
may only be allowed if the City Council has approved a plan that assures
removal of the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time
available.
   (C)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   Accessory structures must not be designed for human habitation.
      (2)   Accessory structures, if permitted, must be constructed and placed
on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow of
flood waters:
         (a)   Whenever possible, structures must be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
         (b)   So far as practicable, structures must be placed approximately
on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
      (3)   Accessory structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
flood proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing classifications
in the State Building Code. All floodproofed accessory structures must meet the
following additional standards:
         (a)   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement and designed to equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls; and
         (b)   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood proofed.
      (4)   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be internally/wet
flood proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code, provided the accessory structure constitutes a minimal
investment and does not exceed 576 square feet in size. A detached garage may
only be used for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All structures must
meet the following standards:
         (a)   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two automatic openings in the outside walls of the
structure, with a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding; and
         (b)   There must be openings on at least two sides of the structure
and the bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot above the lowest
adjacent grade to the structure. Using human intervention to open a garage door
prior to flooding will not satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
   (D)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross section of protected wetlands or public waters are subject to
the provisions of M.S. § 103G.245.
   (E)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway must not cause
an increase to the 1% chance or regional flood. The technical analysis must
assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
   (F)   Floodway developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic capacity
of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse or
drainage system.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF)
§ 152.040 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses are those uses of land or structures allowed in the
underlying zoning district(s) that comply with the standards in §
152.041.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.041 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated
on fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. In a Zone AE, the finished fill elevation for
structures must be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. In AO zones, the finished fill elevation for structures must be no
lower than the depth shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for that zone,
measured from the highest adjacent grade to the structure. In all zones, the
fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside
limits of the structure.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, an accessory structure that
constitutes a minimal investment and that does not exceed 576 square feet in
size may be internally flood proofed in accordance with §
152.033(C).
   (B)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel must
not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with division (A) above, or if allowed as a
conditional use under §
152.042(C).
   (C)   The storage of any materials or equipment must be elevated on fill to
the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (D)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of flooding,
flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or plant life
is prohibited.
   (E)   Fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
   (F)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above an
elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. In an AO Zone, all new principal structures must have vehicular
access at an elevation not more than one foot below the required elevation of
fill for structures in that zone, or must have a flood warning/emergency
evacuation plan acceptable to the City Council.
   (G)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may be
at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation. However,
any facilities used by employees or the general public must be designed with a
flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area is
inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet) multiplied by
the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of four upon
occurrence of the regional (1% chance) flood.
   (H)   Interference with normal manufacturing/industrial plant operations
must be minimized, especially along streams having protracted flood durations.
In considering permit applications, due consideration must be given to the
needs of industries with operations that require a floodplain location.
   (I)   Flood fringe developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
   (J)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the standards
of §§
152.080,
152.081, and
152.082.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.042 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses and activities may be allowed as conditional uses, if
allowed in the underlying zoning district(s) or any applicable overlay
district, following the procedures in §
152.093. Conditional uses must meet the standards in §
152.041(D) through
152.041(J) and §
152.043.
   (A)   Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood proofed in
accordance with §
152.041(A).
   (B)   Storage of any material or equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   (C)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill when
the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with §
152.041(A).
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.043 STANDARDS FOR FLOOD FRINGE CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The standards listed in §§
152.041(D) through
152.041(J) apply to all conditional uses.
   (B)   (1)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls, and the like, or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck-under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area is
considered above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if:
         (a)   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         (b)   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood
resistant materials; and
         (c)   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
      (2)   These alternative elevation methods are subject to the following
additional standards:
      (3)   Design and certification. The structure's design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the State Building
Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment, including ductwork, and other service facilities
are placed at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or are
designed to prevent flood water from entering or accumulating within these
components during times of flooding.
      (4)   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood. The design plans must stipulate:
         (a)   A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal flooding
is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There must be a minimum of two
openings on at least two sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings
must be a maximum of one foot above grade. The automatic openings must have a
net area of at least one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding, unless a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that a smaller net area would suffice. The automatic openings may be
equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or devices, provided
that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without any form
of human intervention; and
         (b)   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the State
Building Code and will be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles,
or storage.
   (C)   Basements, as defined by §
152.018, are subject to the following:
      (1)   Residential basement construction is not allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory flood
protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry floodproofed in
accordance with §
152.043(D).
   (D)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be floodproofed in
accordance with the structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the State
Building Code. Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-
2 floodproofing classification in the State Building Code, which requires
making the structure watertight with the walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water and with structural components capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. Structures wet
floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification are not permitted.
   (E)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other similar
material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a structure to
the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an approved
erosion/sedimentation control plan.
      (1)   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize the
fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the regional (1% chance) flood
event.
      (2)   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the City
Council.
      (3)   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the
material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
   (F)   Storage of materials and equipment below the regulatory flood
protection elevation must comply with an approved emergency plan providing for
removal of such materials within the time available after a flood warning.
   (G)   Within an AO Zone, there must be adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures or structure additions.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GF)
§ 152.050 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The uses listed in §
152.030, floodway district permitted uses, are permitted uses.
   (B)   All other uses are subject to the floodway/flood fringe evaluation
criteria specified in §
152.051. Sections
152.031 through
152.033 apply if the proposed use is determined to be in the floodway district.
Sections
152.041 through
152.043 apply if the proposed use is determined to be in the flood fringe
district.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.051 PROCEDURES FOR FLOODWAY AND FLOOD FRINGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit or other approval within
the general floodplain district, the Zoning Administrator must obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any regional flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   If regional flood elevation and floodway data are not readily
available, the applicant must furnish additional information, as needed, to
determine the regulatory flood protection elevation and whether the proposed
use would fall within the floodway or flood fringe district. Information must
be consistent with accepted hydrological and hydraulic engineering standards
and the standards in §
152.051(C).
   (C)   The determination of floodway and flood fringe must include the
following components, as applicable:
      (1)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional (1% chance) flood.
      (2)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas.
      (3)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half (0.5) foot. A lesser
stage increase than 0.5 foot is required if, as a result of the stage increase,
increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of encroachment on both
sides of the stream within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway
boundaries.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator will review the submitted information and
assess the technical evaluation and the recommended floodway and/or flood
fringe district boundary. The assessment must include the cumulative effects of
previous floodway encroachments. The Zoning Administrator may seek technical
assistance from a designated engineer or other expert person or agency,
including the Department of Natural Resources. Based on this assessment, the
Zoning Administrator may approve or deny the application.
   (E)   Once the Floodway and Flood Fringe District Boundaries have been
determined, the Zoning Administrator must process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
152.032 through
152.033 and §§
152.041 through
152.043.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
LAND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.060 IN GENERAL.
   Recognizing that flood prone areas may exist outside of the designated
floodplain districts, the requirements of this section apply to all land within
the city.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.061 SUBDIVISIONS.
   No land may be subdivided which is unsuitable for reasons of flooding or
inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities. Manufactured
home parks and recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are considered
subdivisions under this chapter.
   (A)   All lots within the floodplain districts must be able to contain a
building site outside of the floodway district at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   (B)   All subdivisions must have road access both to the subdivision and to
the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation in a Zone AE. In an AO Zone, all new principal structures
must have vehicular access at an elevation not more than one foot below the
required elevation of fill for structures in that zone. An exception to these
requirements may be allowed if a flood warning emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people during the regional (1% chance) flood has
been approved by the City Council. The plan must be prepared by a registered
engineer or other qualified individual, and must demonstrate that adequate time
and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway and flood fringe
district boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (D)   In the general floodplain district, applicants must provide the
information required in §
152.051 to determine the regional flood elevation, the floodway and flood
fringe district boundaries and the regulatory flood protection elevation for
the subdivision site.
   (E)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood prone area, any such proposal must be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.062 BUILDING SITES.
   If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction
and substantial improvements (including the placement of manufactured homes)
must be:
   (A)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent floatation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
   (C)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
   (D)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES
§ 152.070 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All public utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and
water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be flood proofed in
accordance with the State Building Code or elevated to the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.071 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges to be located within the floodplain must
comply with §
152.030(E) and §
152.041. These transportation facilities must be elevated to the regulatory
flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of these facilities
would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities
are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or auxiliary roads
or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or
interruption of transportation services would not endanger the public health or
safety.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.072 ON-SITE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where public utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they must not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
   (B)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the state's
current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems is considered
to be in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
MANUFACTURED HOMES, MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 152.080 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   New manufactured home parks, expansions to existing manufactured home parks,
and new or replacement manufactured home units on lots of record are prohibited
in the floodway district. If allowed in the flood fringe district, these uses
are subject to the requirements of §§
152.041 and
152.043 and the following standards.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.081 PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   New and replacement manufactured homes in the flood fringe district must
comply with the following standards:
   (A)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in compliance
with §§
152.041 and
152.043 and must be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation
system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state or
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (B)   New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured home
parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in §
152.061(B).
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.082 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Placement of recreational vehicles in the floodplain must meet the exemption
criteria below or be treated as new structures meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this chapter
if they are placed in any of the following areas and meet the criteria listed
in §
152.082(B):
      (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record.
      (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
      (3)   Existing condominium-type associations.
   (B)   Criteria for exempt recreational vehicles
      (1)   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway use.
      (2)   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks.
      (3)   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
      (4)   The vehicle and associated use must be permissible in any pre-
existing, underlying zoning district.
      (5)   Accessory structures are not permitted within the floodway
district. Any accessory structure in the flood fringe district must be
constructed of flood-resistant materials and be securely anchored, meeting the
requirements applicable to manufactured homes in §
152.081(B).
      (6)   An accessory structure must constitute a minimal investment
   (C)   Recreational vehicles that are exempt in §
152.082(B) lose this exemption when development occurs on the site that exceeds
a minimal investment for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage
building. The recreational vehicle and all accessory structures will then be
treated as new structures subject to the elevation and floodproofing
requirements of §
152.041 and §
152.043. No development or improvement on the parcel or attachment to the
recreational vehicle is allowed that would hinder the removal of the vehicle
should flooding occur.
   (D)   New commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds, subdivisions
or condominium associations, and the expansion of any similar existing use
exceeding five units or dwelling sites may be allowed subject to the following:
      (1)   On any new or replacement recreational vehicle site in the flood
fringe district, the recreational vehicle and its contents must be placed on
fill at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation and adequate road
access to the site must be provided in accordance with §
152.061(B).
      (2)   Any new or replacement recreational vehicle site located in the
floodway district or as an alternative to division (A) above in the flood
fringe district, may be allowed as a conditional use in accordance with the
following provisions and the provisions of §
152.093.
         (a)   The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe
evacuation of all vehicles and people acceptable to the City Council, as
specified in §
152.061(B). The plan must demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to
carry out an evacuation, and that the exemption provisions of §
152.082(A) will be met;
         (b)   All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not be impaired
or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
152.072; and
         (c)   Any fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this
section must not increase the flood stage of the regional (1% chance) flood.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.090 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the City Council must
administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.091 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator prior to conducting the following activities:
      (1)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or alteration
of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance and repair
also requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction with other
planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement as defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The use or change of use of a building, structure, or land.
      (3)   The construction of a dam, fence, or on-site septic system,
although a permit is not required for a farm fence as defined in this chapter.
      (4)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
      (5)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
      (6)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
      (7)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse, unless a public waters
work permit has been applied for.
      (8)   Any other type of development as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The permit
application must include the following as applicable:
      (1)   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or proposed
buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an influence on
the permit.
      (2)   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the stream
channel.
      (3)   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal permits
or approvals.
      (4)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator as
necessary to property evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or nonconforming
use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any manner until
a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator
stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by a
registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing measures must be
certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (E)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator must
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures and alterations or additions to structures are
floodproofed.
   (F)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as adequate
notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago
Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (G)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease base
flood elevations. As soon as is practicable, but not later than six months
after the date such supporting information becomes available, the Zoning
Administrator must notify the Chicago Regional Office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.092 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such Boards by state
law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variance applications. The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon
appeal a variance to the provisions of this chapter in accordance with M.S. §
462.357, Title XV, § 155.219 of the city code, and the requirements of this
section.
   (D)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law.
   (E)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
      (1)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that:
      (l)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base or regional flood level increases
risks to life and property. Such notification must be maintained with a record
of all variance actions.
   (G)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
factors in granting variances and imposing conditions on variances and
conditional uses in floodplains:
      (1)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and the
ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease, contamination
and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed use
to the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of viable alternative locations for the proposed
use that are not subject to flooding;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive land use
plan and flood plain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
   (H)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
variances to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten days'
notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail
to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (I)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting variances must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such action.
The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the respective DNR
area hydrologist.
   (J)   Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must report
such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of the
National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.093 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use permit
under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with Title XV, §
155.186 of the city code.
   (B)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City Council must consider all relevant factors specified in
other sections of this chapter, and those factors identified in §
152.092(E).
   (C)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City Council may
attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it deems
necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
      (5)   Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the State Building Code
and this chapter. The applicant must submit a plan or document certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing measures
are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and associated
flood factors for the particular area.
   (D)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources
(DNR). The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed
conditional uses to the DNR sufficiently in advance to provide at least ten
days' notice of the hearing. The notice maybe sent by electronic mail or U.S.
Mail to the respective DNR area hydrologist.
   (E)   Submittal of final decisions to the DNR. A copy of all decisions
granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the DNR within ten days of such
action. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or U.S. Mail to the
respective DNR area hydrologist.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 152.100 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   A use, structure, or occupancy of land which was lawful before the passage
or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter may be continued subject to the following conditions. Historic
structures, as defined in §
152.018, are subject to the provisions of divisions (A) through (E) below.
   (A)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its nonconformity.
Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies within the floodway
district is prohibited.
   (B)   Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential
of that structure or use must be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 thru FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in
the State Building Code, except as further restricted in divisions (C) and (G).
   (C)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure may not exceed 50% of
the market value of the structure unless the conditions of this section are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions must include
all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the cost of all previous and proposed alterations and
additions exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
152.031 and
152.033 or §§
152.041 and
152.043 for new structures depending upon whether the structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
   (D)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure, is
discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the premises must
conform to this chapter. The assessor must notify the Zoning Administrator in
writing of instances of nonconformities that have been discontinued for a
period of more than one year.
   (E)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in §
152.018, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
152.031 and
152.033 or §§
152.041 and
152.043 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe, respectively.
   (F)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in §
152.018 of this chapter, it must not be reconstructed except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any substantial improvement, as defined in §
152.018, to a nonconforming structure requires that the existing structure and
any additions must meet the requirements of §§
152.031 and
152.033 or §§
152.041 and
152.043 for new structures, depending upon whether the structure is in the
floodway or flood fringe district.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.110 VIOLATION CONSTITUTES A MISDEMEANOR.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) constitute a
misdemeanor and will be punishable as defined by law.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.111 OTHER LAWFUL ACTION.
   Nothing in this chapter restricts the city from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. If the responsible
party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning Administrator within the
specified period of time, each additional day that lapses will constitute an
additional violation of this chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.112 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter will be investigated and
resolved in accordance with the provisions of § 10.99. In responding to a
suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning Administrator and City Council may
utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it including but not
limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders
for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood Insurance Program
for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty party. The city must
act in good faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance
violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.120 FLOODPLAIN DESIGNATION-RESTRICTIONS ON REMOVAL.
   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map must not be removed
from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error
or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory
flood protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain.
Special exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) if the Commissioner determines that,
through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the intended use.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.121 AMENDMENTS REQUIRE DNR APPROVAL.
   All amendments to this chapter must be submitted to and approved by the
Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) prior to adoption.
The Commissioner must approve the amendment prior to community approval.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
§ 152.122 MAP REVISIONS REQUIRE CHAPTER AMENDMENTS.
   The floodplain district regulations must be amended to incorporate any
revisions by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps
adopted in §
152.012.
(Ord. 1079, passed 4-14-14)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Intent
   
153.02   Definition
   
153.03   Exempted signs
   
153.04   Prohibited signs
   
153.05   Signs with multiple sign faces
Sign Regulations
   
153.15   Maintenance and removal of signs
   
153.16   Nonconforming signs
   
153.17   Illuminated signs
   
153.18   Temporary signs
   
153.19   Sign setbacks
   
153.20   District sign provisions
   
153.21   Scoreboards
Permit Provisions
   
153.30   Permit required
   
153.31   Application
   
153.32   Fees
   
153.33   Revocation of permit
   
153.34   Expiration of permit
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and public
welfare through the control of all signs so as to achieve the following:
   (A)   To control signs which violate privacy or which increase the
likelihood of accidents by distracting attention or obstructing vision;
   (B)   To preserve and protect property values and civic beauty and not allow
signs which detract from this objective due to excess size, height, number,
visual impact, undesirable location, maintenance, spacing or illumination;
   (C)   To establish standards which will permit businesses a reasonable and
equitable opportunity to advertise, but which will avoid excessive visual
competition among sign displays; and
   (D)   To provide signs which are compatible with their surroundings and
appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
§ 153.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SCOREBOARD. A structurally-engineered sign erected at an athletic field or
stadium and which is generally used to maintain the score or time expired in an
event at the field or stadium. This definition includes signs mounted or
applied to an athletic field.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, placard or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of
or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate information of
any kind to the public. Public art as defined and regulated pursuant to
Chapter 101 of the city code is not a sign under this chapter.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 1082, passed
7-14-14; Am. Ord. 1160, passed 4-14-20)
§ 153.03 EXEMPTED SIGNS.
   (A)   The following signs are exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Public signs, street signs, warning signs, railroad crossing signs,
and signs of public service companies for the purpose of safety.
      (2)   Private traffic directional signs of not over eight square feet;
such signs shall not be placed in the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Decorative banners attached to light poles, provided such
decorative banners are part of a community promotion program approved by the
right-of-way authority.
      (4)   Signs containing the name and logo of a business located on public
right-of-way, when part of a logo signing program conducted by the right-of-way
authority.
      (5)   Temporary portable special events signs in residential districts,
when such signs are used to announce weddings, anniversaries, graduation
parties, real estate open houses or similar special events, do not exceed 32
square feet in area, are not displayed for more than 72 hours in any 30-day
period, and are not located in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   The following signs shall be permitted and do not require a permit or
permit fee. The other requirements of this chapter shall apply.
      (1)   Temporary political campaign signs. (See § 153.18)
      (2)   Temporary real estate signs pertaining only to the sale, rental or
development of the premises upon which displayed. (See § 153.18)
      (3)   Construction signs designating the architects, lending
institutions, engineers or contractors, when placed on a site where
construction is to begin within 90 days. (See § 153.18)
      (4)   Temporary window signs in a commercial or industrial district. (See
§ 153.18)
      (5)   Other exterior temporary signs of under 20 square feet.
      (6)   Signs approved on a site plan submitted for review under §§ 155.160
through 155.171 of this title.
      (7)   Informational signs not exceeding two square feet in area displayed
strictly for the convenience of the public, including signs which identify rest
rooms, waste receptacles, addresses, doorbells, mailboxes or building
entrances; such signs shall not be placed in public right-of-way.
      (8)   Memorial plaques, cornerstones and historical tablets.
      (9)   Wall, marquee, awning or canopy signs giving the name, logo or
profession of a business, provided the sign does not exceed four square feet in
area.
      (10) Sponsorship signs within parks or adjacent to recreational trails,
provided such sign does not exceed four square feet in area, any commercial
message is limited to the name or logo of a business sponsoring said park or
recreational trail, the message on such sign is not legible from property used
for residential purposes, and the sign is not placed in public right-of-way.
      (11) Signs advertising a short-term sale accessory to a residence, such
as a rummage or garage sale, provided such signs are not in place for more than
72 hours, there are no more than two signs per street frontage on a lot, no
sign is greater than four square feet in area, and no sign is placed in a
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.04 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   No sign shall be attached to trees or utility poles.
   (B)   No sign shall be placed in a public right-of-way, and no sign shall
overhang the public right-of-way except in the B-2 Zoning District in
conformance with §
153.20(C).
   (C)   No sign shall be installed which by reason of position, movement,
shape, illumination or color would constitute a traffic hazard by obstructing a
driver's vision or by interfering, confusing or misleading traffic.
   (D)   Roof signs.
   (E)   Painted wall signs.
   (F)   All other signs not expressly permitted by this chapter are
prohibited.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.05 SIGNS WITH MULTIPLE SIGN FACES.
   In cases where a sign has more than one surface which falls under the
definition of a sign, each individual surface shall be considered to be a sign.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 153.15 MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL OF SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs shall be maintained by the owner in a safe condition. A sign
shall be repainted whenever its paint begins to fade, chip or discolor.
   (B)   If the Community Development Department shall find that any sign is
unsafe, a detriment to the public, not maintained, or constructed, erected or
maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall give written notice to the sign owner thereof. If the sign
owner fails to comply with the standards of this chapter within 20 days after
such notice, such sign may be removed, and the costs for removal charged
against the property in the manner prescribed for public nuisances.
   (C)   In cases where a sign has been placed in the public right-of-way in
violation of this chapter or other ordinances, or in cases where a sign
overhanging the public right-of-way is determined to be an immediate danger to
public health or safety, such sign may be removed by any city employee without
notice.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.16 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any sign legally existing on the effective date of this chapter which does
not conform to the requirements set forth in this chapter shall become a
nonconforming use. Nonconforming signs shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Nonconforming signs may be repaired and maintained in their existing
location, but shall not be enlarged or relocated unless done in compliance with
this chapter.
   (B)   On lots which exceed the maximum sign area under §
153.20, no new signs shall be added until the lot is in compliance with §
153.20. Existing signs may be replaced and their content may be altered, but
they shall not be relocated, enlarged or changed in shape until the lot is in
compliance.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.17 ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   (A)   There shall be no signs having blinking, flashing or fluttering lights
or having changing brightness or color, except in Commercial and Industrial
Zoning Districts or scoreboards in Residential, Institutional, or Natural
Features Districts subject to the requirements of §
153.21. Electric message signs other than scoreboards (see §
153.21) shall be permitted in residential districts through the issuance of a
conditional use permit provided that all of the following restrictions are
complied with:
      (1)   Sign is for a public institutional land use as defined in
Chapter 155 of this Title;
      (2)   Sign does not exceed 30 square feet;
      (3)   Message display limited to 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Message limited to change once every ten seconds;
      (5)   Message prohibited to flash or flutter (scroll only); and
      (6)   Messages may only display public service announcements.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may place any additional restrictions to
assure the integrity of the residential neighborhoods is protected.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 1002, passed
8-13-07; Am. Ord. 1066, passed 2-11-13; Am. Ord. 1160, passed 4-14-20) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.18 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Real estate signs.
      (1)   Two temporary real estate signs located on the premises are
permitted for the sale or lease of an existing building or vacant lot for each
street frontage of the parcel.
      (2)   Real estate signs shall be removed within ten days of the
completion of the project or when the property is sold.
      (3)   Real estate signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area in
residential districts and 32 square feet in all other districts.
   (B)   Construction signs. Two construction signs not exceeding 32 square
feet in total area in residential districts and 64 square feet in total area in
all other districts shall be permitted on each street frontage of a development
site. Such signs shall be removed within 14 days after the development is
constructed.
   (C)   Political signs. Political signs shall meet all applicable standards
of M.S. § 211B.045 during state general years. During non-state general
election years, political signs shall not exceed eight square feet in area in
residential districts and 32 square feet in all other districts. Such signs
shall not be erected prior to the first day of filing. Such signs shall be
removed within seven days after the election to which they are applicable. Each
such sign shall contain the name and address of the person responsible for the
placement of the sign. Such person shall be responsible for the removal.
   (D)   Window signs.  Temporary interior window signs shall only be permitted
in a commercial or industrial district, and in such cases shall be exempt from
the requirements of §
153.20.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.19 SIGN SETBACKS.
   A sight triangle shall be established at the intersection of two or more
streets, consisting of a triangle bounded by the property lines of a corner
lot, as extended if applicable, and a straight line joining points on such
property lines 25 feet from the intersection of such lines. Ground signs shall
not be constructed within this sight triangle, and building signs shall not be
constructed which extend beyond the building into the sight triangle between a
height of 2½ feet and eight feet above the established grade of the
intersection of the two street lines.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.20 DISTRICT SIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Residential and special districts. Multi-family residential complexes
having more than six units; principal residential uses J, K, L, M, O, P, S, T,
U, V, X and Y as enumerated in Chapter 155; Appendix E; Table 5 Schedule of Use
Regulations; and principal nonresidential use shall be permitted no more than
two signs of up to 50 square feet in total sign area on each frontage except
for §
153.21  (Scoreboards). Freestanding signs placed outside of the required front
yard setback area shall not exceed 8.5 feet in height except for §
153.21  (Scoreboards). Freestanding signs placed in any required front yard
shall not exceed five feet in height.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial and institutional districts. Signs in
commercial, industrial or institutional districts shall be subject to the
provisions of the following tables except for scoreboards (see §
153.21 :
 
MAXIMUM TOTAL SIGN AREA PER LOT
(Text provisions take precedence over regulations in the table)
                       Commercial Districts Industrial
(whichever is greater) B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4      Districts  Institutional Districts

Percent of the total
area covered by all    2%  6%  4%  4%       4%         2%
buildings on the lot
Square feet of signage
per linear foot of the 1   3   2   2        2          1
lot's street frontage
 
MAXIMUM SIGN SIZE
(Text provisions take precedence over regulations in the table)
                    Commercial Districts                       Institutional
                    B-1 B-2  B-3     B-4  Industrial Districts District

Maximum size of any 50  2001 2001, 2 2001 4001                 100
sign (sq.ft.)
Notes:   1   Signs which are attached to a building and display only the
name or logo of the occupant are not subject to the maximum size
restriction.
   2   Off-premises signs located along Interstate 90 shall be allowed 400
square feet.
 
MAXIMUM SIGN HEIGHT
(Text provisions take precedence over regulations in the table)
                     Commercial Districts                         Institutional
                     B-1   B-2   B-3   B-4   Industrial Districts District

Maximum height above
grade of any sign    122,3 302,3 402,3 402,3 402,3                123
(ft.)
Notes:   2   Each lot may have one sign which exceeds the maximum height for
the purpose of displaying the name or logo of the business located on the lot.
   3   The sign height shall not be greater than the sign setback from any
abutting property zoned and used for residential purposes.
 
   (C)   Projection of signs over public sidewalks in the B-2 Zoning District.
In the B-2 Zoning District awnings, marquees and signs may project over the
public sidewalks in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   All awnings, marquees, signs, or signboards shall be securely
fastened to the building or object to which attached, so that there will be no
danger of the same falling or causing damage to persons or property.
      (2)   There shall be 7½ feet clearance maintained between the sidewalk
level and the lowest portion of any awning or sign.
      (3)   There shall be 8½ feet clearance maintained between the sidewalk
level and the lowest portion of any marquee.
      (4)   Marquees, as defined by State Building Code, shall be constructed
in accordance with applicable building codes, and a building permit shall be
obtained in addition to the sign permit.
   (D)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs are those with a message which
is not directly related to the premises on which the sign is located. Off-
premises commercial signs shall only be permitted in commercial and industrial
districts, and in those parts of the Transition Zone District designated for
future commercial or industrial development in the comprehensive guide. Such
signs shall be subject to the requirements of this section; in the case of such
signs in the Transition Zone District, the standards to be applied shall be the
B-3 standard for areas designated for future commercial development, and the
industrial standard for areas designated for future industrial development. No
more than one off-premises sign or structure with multiple sign faces shall be
permitted on a lot or group of lots under common ownership, unless there is a
minimum separation distance of 500 feet between each sign or structure with
multiple sign faces.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 869, passed 10-12-98; Am. Ord. 880, passed
7-12-99; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06; Am. Ord. 1160, passed 4-14-20) Penalty,
see §
153.99
§ 153.21 SCOREBOARDS.
   (A)   Scoreboards not exceeding 16 feet in height or 200 square feet in
surface area are allowed for any playing field. These scoreboards shall be
allowed as long as the scoreboard does not contain a video display or
illuminated signs beyond the general function of the scoreboard (timekeeping,
score, statistics and the like). Commercial speech shall be limited to 30% of
the total scoreboard area.
   (B)   One scoreboard not exceeding 32 feet in height or 500 square feet in
area is allowed per athletic field, provided that the information on the
scoreboard does not create a traffic hazard for drivers on adjacent public
right-of-ways and provided that the scoreboard does not contain a video display
or illuminated signs beyond the general function of the scoreboard
(timekeeping, score, statistics and the like). Commercial speech shall be
limited to 30% of the total scoreboard area.
2021 S-23
   Signs   42A
   (C)   A scoreboard that exceeds 32 feet in height or 500 square feet or
contains a video display or illuminated signs beyond the general function of a
scoreboard (timekeeping, score, statistics and the like) shall be allowed
through the issuance of a conditional use permit in accordance with § 155.186
provided that all the following restrictions are met:
      (1)   Any such scoreboard must be at least 50 feet away from adjacent
property lines.
      (2)   Any such scoreboard shall not exceed 45 feet in height or 1,000
square feet in surface area.
      (3)   No other scoreboard at the park or school shall exceed 250 square
feet.
      (4)   No commercial speech shall be permitted on the video display or
illuminated signs except that commercial messages may be displayed during
events on the athletic field served by the scoreboard.
      (5)   The information and commercial speech on the scoreboard shall not
create a traffic hazard or easily be seen for drivers on adjacent public right-
of-ways.
      (6)   Any video display must comply with the following:
         (a)   The video display can only be operated during games or events at
the field.
         (b)   The brightness of the video display shall not exceed 6,000 nits
after sunrise and before sunset or 600 nits after sunset and before sunrise
each day.
         (c)   The sign shall be equipped with an automatic dimmer control or
other mechanism to comply with condition (6)(b).
         (d)   The display must be designed and equipped to freeze the device
in one position if a malfunction of the video display occurs.
         (e)   The display must also be equipped with a means to immediately
discontinue the display if it malfunctions, and the sign owner must immediately
stop and turn off the video display when notified by the city that it is not
complying with the stipulations of this section.
      (7)   Commercial speech shall be limited to 30% of the total scoreboard
area except for advertisements during games or events on the video display.
      (8)   Worthington City Council may place additional restrictions to
assure the integrity of a residential neighborhood is protected or to make sure
such scoreboards do not interfere with the health, safety and general welfare
of the public.
   (D)   All scoreboards must comply with the following standards:
2021 S-23
42B   Worthington - Land Usage
      (1)   A scoreboard must only face the field of play.
      (2)   The sound speakers of a scoreboard must only face the field of
play.
      (3)   The audio and video components of a scoreboard shall not be
operated except during the following:
         (a)   Weekdays from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
         (b)   Weekends from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
         (c)   The foregoing ending times shall not apply to minor extensions
due to weather delay or overtime, but in no event shall a scoreboard or any
audio be operated beyond 11:00 p.m.
      (4)   No scoreboard shall be operated before 8:00 a.m. or past 11:00 p.m.
on any day.
      (5)   No signage shall be affixed to the back of the scoreboard.
      (6)   Any replacement of a static commercial sign or expansion of a
scoreboard shall require a new sign permit.
      (7)   Scoreboards must comply with § 155.044 Performance Standards.
   (E)   The maximum square footage allowed for scoreboards in any district
shall be 2,000 square feet.
   (F)   All other signs for parks, fields and athletic venues must comply with
the applicable provisions in Chapter 153.
(Ord. 1160, passed 4-14-20)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 153.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The following provisions are applicable to all signs. It shall be unlawful
for any person to erect, alter, replace or relocate any sign or other
advertising structure without first obtaining a permit and paying the required
fees, except as herein otherwise provided.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.31 APPLICATION.
   An application for a sign permit shall be made to or at the Community
Development Department and shall state or have attached thereto the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant; location of the building,
structure or lot on which the sign is to be erected; the position of the sign
in relation to nearby buildings or structures; the name of the person that will
be erecting the sign; and the written consent of the owner, if different from
the applicant, of any land on which the sign is to be erected.
   (B)   A drawing of the plans, specifications and method of construction or
attachment to a structure on the ground.
   (C)   A copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the sign is designed
to withstand a wind pressure of 30 pounds per square foot.
   (D)   These requirements may be waived by the Zoning Administrator where
they are not applicable.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
§ 153.32 FEES.
   (A)   Initial sign fee. Every applicant shall pay a fee for each sign
regulated by this chapter before being granted a permit.
      (1)   The City Council shall establish the permit fee by resolution.
      (2)   Except for maintenance, any substantial alteration or relocation of
a sign shall constitute a new sign requiring an additional fee.
      (3)   A double fee shall be charged if a sign is erected without first
obtaining a permit for such sign.
   (B)   Inspection. All sign installations for which a permit is required
shall be subject to inspection by the Building Official to ensure that such
signs are safely secured, supported and braced.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
§ 153.33 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Community Development Department is hereby authorized to revoke a sign
permit upon failure of the holder thereof to comply with any provision of this
chapter, including failure to pay the required permit fee. Any party aggrieved
by such revocation may appeal the action to the Board of Zoning Adjustment by
filing a written appeal with the Community Development Department within ten
days after the revocation.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
§ 153.34 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall expire if the sign is not erected within 180 days after
issuance and no permit fees or inspection fees for such sign shall be refunded.
(Ord. 857, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
provisions of § 155.999.
(Ord. 993, passed 9-25-06)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Jurisdiction
   
154.03   Conflict and separability
   
154.04   Definitions and interpretation
   
154.05   Regulation of scattered development
   
154.06   Flood plain considerations
   
154.07   Shoreland considerations
   
154.08   Variances
Subdivision Procedures
   
154.11   Minor subdivision
   
154.12   Preliminary plat
   
154.13   Final plat
   
154.14   Townhouse subdivision
Standards of Design and Development
   
154.30   Compliance required
   
154.31   Required findings
   
154.32   Streets
   
154.33   Blocks
   
154.34   Lots
   
154.35   Easements
   
154.36   Construction of improvements
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the platting of land within
the city pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. Chapters 429, 462, 471,
and 505. The city deems these regulations necessary to protect the health,
safety and general welfare of this city and to implement the city's
Comprehensive Plan. It is also the purpose of these regulations to uniformly
guide development to allow for the orderly and cost-effective provision of
public and private investment in the community to maximize the benefit to
existing and future residents of the city, as well as subdividers of property.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.02 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations herein governing plats and subdivisions of land shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city and as expanded from time to time by
annexation.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.03 CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   The regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any
other ordinance, rule, regulation, statute, or other provisions of law. Where
these regulations impose a restriction different from those imposed by any
other regulation, rule, or ordinance, the more restrictive regulation, rule, or
ordinance shall apply.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Special words:
      (1)   Words used in the plural include the singular.
      (2)   The word “herein” means “in these regulations”.
      (3)   A “person” includes a corporation, a partnership, and an
incorporated association of persons, such as a club.
      (4)   “Shall” is always mandatory.
   (C)   Words and terms defined:
      ALLEY. A public vehicular way which affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property and which is not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
      BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by streets, railroad rights-of-way, waterways, or exterior
boundaries of the subdivision.
      BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form
satisfactory to the governing body. All bonds shall be approved by the
governing body wherever a bond is required by these regulations.
      CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the city.
      COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE PLAN). A compilation of
policy statements, goals, standards, and maps for guiding the physical, social,
and economic development, both private and public, of the municipality and its
environs and may include, but is not limited to, the following: statements of
policies, goals, standards, a land use plan, a community facilities plan, a
transportation plan, and recommendations for plan execution. A Comprehensive
Plan represents the Planning Commission's recommendations for the future
development of the municipality and adopted by the city.
      CROSSWALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. A municipally owned right-of-way which
crosses a block and furnishes pedestrian access to adjacent streets or
properties.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one end open to traffic and being permanently
terminated by a circular turnaround for vehicles.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a portion of land by
the public, a corporation or persons for use for specific purposes, such as the
construction of utilities, drainageways and roadways.
      ENGINEER. The City Engineer or a duly authorized consultant engineer.
      ESCROW. A deposit of cash in lieu of an amount required and still in
force on a performance or maintenance bond.
      FINAL PLAT. All required maps, information, and documents as set forth in
these Subdivision Regulations and as required by the Planning Commission and
Council.
      FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street.
      GOVERNING BODY. The body of the local government having the power to
adopt ordinances.
      GRADE. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of a foot for each
100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the center line of the street.
      LOT. The smallest unit of a subdivision individually numbered or
designated on the plat for purposes of description, recording, conveyance,
development and taxation.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the street right-of-way
line and the opposite rear line of the lot.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side property lines
of a lot.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of a parcel or parcels of property in
which more than one additional parcel or lot is created in unplatted lands, or
more than two additional parcels or lots are created in platted lands.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivsion of a parcel or parcels of property in
which no more than one additional parcel or lot is created in unplatted lands,
or no more than two additional parcels or lots are created in platted lands.
      MONUMENT. Concrete and/or metal markers utilized to establish survey
points and lot boundaries.
      MUNICIPAL ATTORNEY. The licensed attorney designated by the governing
body to furnish legal assistance for the administration of these regulations.
      OPEN SPACE. An area of land preserved from building development and
reserved for the use of the general public or a homeowners' association for the
purpose of active and passive recreation and certain necessary community
facilities.
      ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any
ordinance.
      PARKS. Area of public land developed and maintained primarily as
pleasurable, landscaped areas providing for both active and passive
recreational pursuits, including tot-lots, playgrounds, neighborhood parks,
play fields, and special purpose areas.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. A governmental agency appointed by the governing
body according to M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.363 or, in the event a Planning
Commission is nonexistent, the governing body shall assume all the
responsibility assigned to the Planning Commission by this chapter. Except as
otherwise expressly provided, the Planning Commission shall have only advisory
powers to the Council.
      PLAT. A map or drawing indicating the subdivisions or resubdivision of
land. Intended to be filed for record.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. All required maps, information, and documents as set
forth in these regulations and as required by the Planning Commission and
Council for approval.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage, ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, sewer,
water system, storm sewer, or other facility for which the local government may
ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which
may affect an improvement for which local government responsibility is
established. All such improvements shall be properly bonded.
      RESUBDIVISION. A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivsion
plat if such change affects any street layout on such map or area reserved
thereon for public use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan
legally recorded prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling
subdivisions.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street,
alley, or pedestrian path or bike path.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY/STREET WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured
at right angles to the center line of the street.
      STREETS. Streets shall be classified as follows:
         (a)   Collector. Roadways that provide movement connecting local roads
to arterials.
         (b)   Frontage road. A frontage road is adjacent to a major
thoroughfare. Its primary function is to preserve the safety and capacity of
the thoroughfare by controlling access to the major street while still
providing direct, private access to the adjoining properties. The roadway of
the frontage road abuts the thoroughfare's right-of-way.
         (c)   Local roads and streets. Roadways that provide local movement
and immediate access to abutting land.
         (d)   Major arterial. Roadways that provide regional movement with
high mobility, more controlled access points and generally connect to principal
arterials.
         (e)   Minor arterial. Roadways that provide movement to adjacent areas
and within the local area and generally connect to major arterials.
         (f)   Principal arterial. Roadways that provide regional movement with
high mobility and limited access points.
      SUBDIVIDER. A person who submits a plot for the purpose of land
subdivision as defined herein. The subdivider may be the developer, land owner
or authorized agent of the owner of the land to be subdivided and includes any
person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
the land sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a tract of land into two or more lots or
parcels of land for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development. The term includes resubdivision, except when the resubdivision is
the relocation of a common boundary between two lots or parcels which does not
create any new lots or parcels and all remaining lots or parcels affected by
the relocation conform to this chapter and the zoning regulations as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
      TOWNHOUSE SUBDIVISION. The subdivision of a tract of land into two or
more lots or parcels of land for the purpose of ownership, transfer of
ownership, or for the building/development of townhouse units.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by the governing body to
administer these regulations.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.05 REGULATION OF SCATTERED DEVELOPMENT.
   The City Council finds that the use of individual water and private sewer
systems within the city creates serious health and safety hazards. Scattered
development causes an unreasonable burden upon taxpayers of the city, creates
fiscal and engineering problems in the installation of improvements and
utilities, causes undue financial burdens upon the city for policing, street
and utility maintenance, fire protection and snow removal, disrupts orderly
planning and stable growth and reduces community cohesion. For these reasons
the Council has adopted the following:
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided, platted nor replatted unless city sewer
and water shall be available to such property.
   (B)   No land shall be subdivided, platted nor replatted unless such land
either adjoins an existing subdivision, or is in an area where city sewer and
city water are available.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.06 FLOOD PLAIN CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Subdivisions. No land shall be subdivided which is held unsuitable by
the city by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage or inadequate water supply
or sewage treatment facilities. All lots contained within the flood hazard
districts shall contain a building site at or above the flood protection
elevation. All subdivisions shall have access and water and sewage disposal
facilities that comply with the provisions of this title. All subdivisions
shall have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building
sites no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities, such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the flood plain
districts shall be designed and constructed in a manner to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. Sewer and water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize infiltration by flood waters.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.07 SHORELAND CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Inconsistent plats. Plats inconsistent with the shoreland regulations
of this title shall be reviewed by the Commissioner of Natural Resources before
approval by the municipality. Such review shall require that the proposed plats
be received by the Commissioner at least ten days before a hearing is called by
the municipality for consideration of approval of a final plat.
   (B)   Submission of plats. Copies of all plats within shoreland areas shall
be submitted to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of final
approval by the municipality.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
§ 154.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The Planning Commission may recommend that the City Council
may grant a variance from the strict compliance with the subdivision
regulations contained in this chapter when it finds that the conditions found
in § 155.219(C) are present.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the Planning Commission may
suggest, and the Council may require such conditions as shall, in its
judgement, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or requirements
of these regulations.
   (C)   Procedures. A request for any variances shall be submitted in writing
by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Planning Commission. The petition shall state fully the
grounds for the variance and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
§ 154.11 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A minor subdivision may not be considered unless the following is
true:
      (1)   The property to be subdivided shall not have been previously
divided in such a manner that the requested subdivision will result in a total
of not more than three lots or parcels, including those tracts or parcels
previously divided.
      (2)   The subdivision cannot involve the construction or extension of any
street, road or public utilities.
   (B)   A minor subdivision shall include the following:
      (1)   A completed application on a form approved by the Planning
Commission and Council.
      (2)   Application fee.
      (3)   Three reproducible copies of a registered land survey illustrating
the proposed minor subdivision.
   (C)   Review of a minor subdivision.
      (1)   Application for minor subdivision shall be submitted to the
Community/Economic Development Department.
      (2)   If the Director of the Community/Economic Development or his or her
designee determines that approval of the application for minor subdivision will
not interfere with the intent and purpose of this chapter, he or she shall
approve or deny the application. If the Director of the Community/Economic
Development or his or here designee determines that the application would
interfere with the intent and purpose of this chapter, the application shall be
forwarded to the Planning Commission and City Council for their consideration.
      (3)   Approval or denial of an application shall be in writing. A
certified copy of the written decision and accompanying findings shall be sent
to the applicant within five business days of the decision.
      (4)   The decision of the Community/Economic Development Director or his
or her designee may be appealed with § 155.218.
   (D)   Filing of a minor subdivision. If approved, the applicant shall file a
certified copy of the written decision and executed copies of the registered
survey with the Nobles County Recorder within 60 days of approval. The
applicant will also be responsible for providing a reproducible copy of the
recorded survey to the city. If the minor subdivision is not filed within 60
days of approval, it shall become null and void.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.12 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall include the following:
      (1)   A completed application on a form approved by the Planning
Commission and Council.
      (2)   Application fee.
      (3)   The preliminary plat drawing(s) drawn to a horizontal scale of one
inch equals 100 feet or less.
      (4)   Each preliminary plat shall be prepared by a Minnesota Registered
Engineer or a Minnesota Registered Land Surveyor. Each preliminary plat drawing
shall include the following:
         (a)   Identification. Date, scale, north point, and proposed name of
the subdivsion. The name shall not duplicate or closely approximate the name of
any other subdivsion in Nobles County.
         (b)   Legal description. Legal description of the land to be
subdivided.
         (c)   Principals. Names and owners of record and registered land
surveyor.
         (d)   Boundaries. The outside boundary lines of the plat shall be
correctly designated on the plat and shall show all bearings on all straight
lines, or angles at all angle points, and central angle and radii and arc
length for all curves.
         (e)   Lot and block layout. Approximate lot and block distances shall
be shown on the plat, including all curved lines within the plat. Central
angles, radii and arc distances shall be shown for all curved lines. Lots shall
be numbered progressively through each block, and blocks shall be numbered
progressively through each plat.
         (f)   Existing streets and public uses. Layout, width, and
identification of existing public streets, easements, drainage ditches, parks,
and other public property within and adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
         (g)   Existing utilities. Location of existing sanitary and storm
sewer lines, water mains, and culverts within and adjacent to the proposed
subdivision, with pipe sizes and grades indicated.
         (h)   Other existing features. Location of existing buildings and
structures, railroad rights-of-way, municipal lines, township lines, and lakes,
rivers, and streams and their known high and low water elevations. Water
elevation references shall be the United States Geological Survey Datum. Flood
hazard areas should be clearly labeled according to the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps, numbers 270321002B and 270321003B, both effective June 15, 1984.
         (i)   Proposed features. Layout, width and identification of proposed
streets, easements, drainage ditches, parks, and other property to be dedicated
to the public or reserved by covenants for the common use of property owners
within the subdivision. Location of proposed sewer lines, water mains,
culverts, streetlights, and a complete grading and drainage plan of the site,
including finished contours with two-foot intervals. Individual lot drainage
shall be shown by the use of arrows. In addition, each plat shall provide proof
of compliance with the NPDES requirements imposed by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency.
         (j)   The square footage of all lots included in the subdivsion.
         (k)   Building setback lines.
         (l)   Zoning. Identification of zoning classifications within the
plat.
      (5)   The preliminary street plan profile drawing drawn to a horizontal
scale of one inch equals 100 feet or less and a vertical scale of one inch
equals ten feet or less, showing the location of existing and proposed streets,
utility easements, and typical street cross-sections.
      (6)   A vicinity map drawn either on each preliminary plat or on a
separate sheet with a scale of not more than one inch equals 200 feet, showing
all existing subdivisions, streets, alleys, and tracts of land adjoining the
proposed subdivision.
      (7)   Copies of existing or proposed private deed restrictions, if any.
   (B)   Public hearing on preliminary plats. The Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the preliminary plat. Notice of public hearing shall
be given at least ten days before the date of such hearing by publication in
the official newspaper and by written notice mailed to the applicant and the
owners of record of all land within 350 feet of the outer boundary of the
preliminary plat. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners or defects in the notice shall not affect the validity of the
proceedings or of any action taken by the Planning Commission or the City
Council.
   (C)   Planning Commission recommendation. After considering the comments and
suggestions received at the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
recommend, in writing, to the City Council stating its reason therefor, either
that the preliminary plat be granted approval subject to certain conditions, if
any, or that the preliminary plat be disapproved. A copy of the recommendation
shall be forwarded to the City Council and the applicant with notice to the
applicant of the date when it will be considered by the City Council.
   (D)   City Council action on preliminary plat. The City Council shall
consider the preliminary plat at its next regular meeting following receipt of
the Planning Commission recommendation, or at a special meeting called for the
purpose of reviewing the preliminary plat. The City Council shall either
approve the preliminary plat subject to certain conditions, if any, or
disapprove the plat. Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat shall be
given within 60 days of receipt of the completed application unless an
extension is approved in accordance with M.S. § 15.99. The city shall notify
the applicant in writing of the City Council's action, stating the conditions
of approval, reasons for disapproval, or the length and reasons for the
extension.
   (E)   Effect of approval of preliminary plat. Approval of a preliminary plat
shall not constitute approval of the final plat or the subdivision. Unless
earlier rescinded by the City Council, approval of a preliminary plat is
limited to a period of one year after which time the applicant shall be
required to resubmit a preliminary plat. Upon submittal of a written request
file with the Community/Economic Development Department, the City Council may
continue the approval for an additional period of time. The written request
shall be filed at least 20 days prior to expiration of the approval of the
preliminary plat.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.13 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall include the following:
      (1)   The application on a form approved by the Planning Commission and
Council.
      (2)   Application fee.
      (3)   Each final plat shall be prepared and signed by a Minnesota
Registered Land Surveyor and shall contain all information pursuant to M.S.
Chapter 505, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Identification. Same as required for preliminary plat.
         (b)   Legal description. Same as required for preliminary plat.
         (c)   Principals. Same as required for preliminary plat.
         (d)   Boundaries. Same as required for preliminary plat.
         (e)   Lots and blocks. All lot distances shall be shown on the plat to
the nearest hundredth of a foot and all curved lines within the plat shall show
central angles, radii, and arc distances.
         (f)   Monuments. There shall be shown on the plat all survey and
mathematical information and data necessary to locate all monuments and to
locate and retrace any and all interior and exterior lines appearing thereon.
         (g)   Existing streets and public uses. Same as required for
preliminary plat.
         (h)   Existing utility easements. Location of easements.
         (i)   Proposed features. Layout, width, and identification of proposed
street rights-of-way, easements, drainage easements, parks, and other property
to be dedicated to the public or drainage easement for the common use of
property owners within the subdivision.
         (j)   Dedication. A statement of dedication, signed, acknowledged, and
witnessed as required by law for recording conveyances. The dedication shall be
in the format as provided by the city or county.
         (k)   Certificates.
            1.   Surveyor. A certificate of the surveyor that the plat was made
in accordance with this chapter and the laws of Minnesota, that the plat is a
correct representation of the survey, that all distances are correctly shown on
the plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed in the ground as shown,
and that the outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat.
            2.   Owner.
               a.   A certificate of the owners in substantially the form as
follows:
“As owners , we hereby certify that we caused the land describ ed on this plat
to be survey ed, divided , mappe d, dedicat ed as represe nted on the plat.”
               b.   This certificate shall be signed, acknowledged, and
witnessed as required by law for recording conveyances.
            3.   Taxes. A certificate by the County Auditor that all prior
taxes have been paid.
            4.   City Clerk. A certificate by the City Clerk that the plat has
been approved by the City Council.
      (4)   An electric file of the final plat shall be submitted with the
application. The file shall be compatible with the city's software and be on a
coordinate system utilized by the city.
      (5)   Reproducible mylars of the final plat, each of which shall contain
all of the certifications, signatures (except that of the Mayor, City Clerk and
County Recorder), and acknowledgment required to file and record the same in
the office of the County Recorder, shall be presented at the final plat
approval.
   (B)   Review of final plat.
      (1)   Planning Commission consideration. If the final plat is in
substantial conformance with the approved preliminary plat, Planning Commission
consideration shall not be required. A final plat will not be considered in
substantial conformance with an approved preliminary plat if any of the
following conditions exist:
         (a)   Any increase in the area covered by the plat.
         (b)   Any increase in the number of lots proposed.
         (c)   Any significant change in street layout.
         (d)   Failure to meet conditions placed on preliminary plat approval
      (2)   City Council action on final plat. The City Council shall, within
60 days after the filing of a complete application for approval of a final
plat, approve or disapprove the final plat. The reasons for disapproval shall
be recorded in the minutes of the City Council and reported to the applicant
and Planning Commission by the Zoning Officer. No final plat shall be approved
by the City Council unless satisfactory evidence is filed with the city that
the final plat is in a form acceptable for recording in the Nobles County
Office of the Registrar of Deeds or Registrar of Titles.
   (C)   Recording final plat. Upon approval by the City Council, the property
owner shall record the final plat in the Nobles County Recorder's office as
provided by law, and shall provide the city with a reproducible copy of the
recorded plat.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.14 TOWNHOUSE SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A townhouse subdivision application shall include the following:
      (1)   The subdivider shall include with the application three
reproducible copies of a registered land survey showing the proposed townhouse
subdivision, building plans showing the proposed townhouse, in addition to
those materials required by § 155.162(B)(2).
      (2)   The townhouse survey shall be accompanied by a development permit,
which states that the survey has been approved and lists any conditions for the
approval.
   (B)   Approval of townhouse subdivisions.
      (1)   Townhouse subdivisions may be undertaken in accordance with the
requirements set forth in § 155.162(B), governing the issuance of a
“Development Permit for Other than Construction,” provided that the townhouse
lots meet the requirements set forth in this title; do not require any public
improvements; and the existing or proposed wall or walls meet the requirements
of the State Building Code.
      (2)   Should the townhouse subdivision fail to meet any of the conditions
for approval by the Zoning Administrator as provided in this subchapter, the
subdivsion must be accomplished as a minor or major subdivision in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator must certify that the townhouse lots meet
the requirements of this title; the City Engineer must certify that the
townhouse lots do not require any public improvements; and the Building
Official must certify that the existing or proposed wall or walls separating
the townhouse units meets the requirements of the State Building Code.
      (4)   Townhouse lots, within an approved townhouse subdivision, may be
used, transferred, owned, or developed only for townhouse units.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
STANDARDS OF DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.30 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All subdivisions considered for approval must comply with the design
standards as outlined in §§ 154.31 through 154.36 of this chapter.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.31 REQUIRED FINDINGS.
   The Planning Commission and City Council, in the review of subdivision
requests and in the application of this chapter, shall take into consideration
the requirements of the city and the best use of the land being subdivided.
Particular attention shall be given to the width and location of streets,
sidewalks, suitable sanitary utilities, surface drainage, lot sizes and
arrangements, as well as requirements such as parks and playgrounds, schools
and recreation sites and other public uses. All of the following findings shall
be made prior to the approval of a subdivision:
   (A)   All the applicable provisions of the city code are complied with;
   (B)   The proposed subdivision will not be detrimental to the present and
potential surrounding land uses;
   (C)   The area surrounding the subdivision can be planned and developed in
coordination and compatibility with the proposed subdivision;
   (D)   The subdivision is in conformance with the Future Land Use and
Thoroughfare Plan;
   (E)   The subdivision preserves and incorporates the site's important
existing natural features, whenever possible;
   (F)   All land intended for building sites can be used safely without
endangering the residents by peril from floods, erosion, continuously high
water table, severe soil conditions or other menace; and
   (G)   The subdivision can be economically served with public facilities and
services.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.32 STREETS.
   (A)   Relation to adjoining street system.
      (1)   Streets shall be designed and located in relationship to existing
and planned streets, to natural terrain features such as streams, contours and
existing tree growth, to public convenience and safety and to the proposed uses
of land to be served by such streets.
      (2)   All arterials shall be properly related to existing and proposed
heavy traffic generators, such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches and shopping centers, to high population densities and to the pattern
of existing and proposed land uses.
      (3)   Local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible to
the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
      (4)   The use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or U-shaped streets
shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable layout than
that of a rectangular gridiron pattern.
   (B)   Half-streets.
      (1)   Half-streets may only be approved in a subdivision where they are
essential to the development of the subdivision and where it will be
practicable to obtain dedication of the other half of the street when the
adjoining land is subdivided. No buildable lots shall be subdivided onto a
half-street unless the City Council finds that the street will have a full
street right-of-way prior to the development of the proposed lots.
      (2)   Where an existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the
other half of the street shall be dedicated by the subdivider. Where a new
subdivision abuts an existing street which lacks the required right-of-way
width, the additional right-of-way width may be required to be dedicated by the
subdivider.
   (C)   Railroads and highways. Where railroad rights-of-way and arterial
streets abut a subdivision, the following shall be required:
      (1)   In residential districts, a buffer strip of at least 30 feet in
depth shall be added to a lot adjacent to a railroad right-of-way or arterial
street. Such buffer strips shall be landscaped pursuant to § 155.043(D).
      (2)   Streets parallel to the railroad when intersecting a street which
crosses the railroad shall, to the extent practicable, be at a distance
required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach
gradients.
   (D)   Access to arterial streets.
      (1)   Limiting access. Where a subdivision borders on or contains an
arterial or collector street, the Planning Commission may require that access
to such streets be limited by one of the following means:
         (a)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the arterial or
collector street and front onto a parallel local street. No access shall be
provided from the arterial or collector street, and screen planting pursuant to
§ 155.043(D) shall be provided in a strip of land along the rear property line
of such lots; or
         (b)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets or short loops entered
from and designed and generally at right angles to such a parallel street, with
the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the arterial or collector.
Such rear lines shall be provided with a screen planting strip pursuant to §
155.043(D); or
         (c)   A marginal access service street or frontage road (separated
from the major street by a planting strip and having access thereto at suitable
points). The number of residential streets entering an arterial or collector
street shall be kept to a minimum.
      (2)   Driveway access. Residential driveway access to arterial streets is
prohibited. In the platting of small tracts of land fronting on arterial
streets, temporary access to arterial streets may be permitted, provided such
access is eliminated when access becomes available to local or collector
streets.
      (3)   Control of access. As part of subdivision approval, the City
Council may require the developer to waive access to arterial and collector
streets.
   (E)   Street width.
      (1)   Major street width shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Minimum street widths shall be 70 feet.
   (F)   Dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs).
      (1)   Where a normal street pattern is not possible there may be a cul-
de-sac, provided that the proper access be given to lots and space provided for
building purposes.
      (2)   Dead-end streets shall terminate in a circular right-of-way of 150
feet diameter or more. No dead-end street shall be longer than 600 feet.
      (3)   Temporary cul-de-sac. Where a subdivision adjoins unsubdivided
land, streets shall be extended to the subdivision's boundary line and a
temporary cul-de-sac shall have a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter
of at least 75 feet. Such temporary cul-de-sac shall remain in existence until
the street is extended beyond the subdivision's boundary line.
   (G)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of any two streets at an angle of less
than 60 degrees shall not be acceptable. No more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point, unless approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with center line offsets of less than
150 feet along local streets shall not be permitted.
      (3)   Where streets intersect arterial streets, their alignment shall be
continuous. The intersections of local or collector streets with arterial
streets shall be kept to a minimum. Wherever practicable, the intersection of
local streets with collector streets shall be at least 300 feet apart.
   (H)   Alleys. The development of public alleys within residential,
commercial and industrial developments shall be discouraged. Where alleys are
deemed necessary for access to off- street parking, loading areas or for
utility service, alleys may be approved by the City Council, provided that:
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way width for an alley shall be 30 feet. The
minimum pavement width shall be 18 feet;
      (2)   Alleys shall intersect public street rights-of-way at right angles;
and
      (3)   Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited unless unavoidable. If
unavoidable, they shall have a minimum cul-de-sac pavement radius of 44 feet.
   (I)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets are
prohibited.
   (J)   Private streets. Private streets may be considered subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   Private streets shall be constructed to city street design
standards and specifications.
      (2)   Must be established as part of a Common Community Interest Plat.
      (3)   The proposed private street layout shall not prevent the
continuation of established street patterns or corridors, or prevent reasonable
access to or interfere with the future orderly development of adjacent
developable areas.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.33 BLOCKS.
   (A)   No block shall be longer than 1,320 feet between street lines.
   (B)   The width of blocks shall not be less than 225 feet, nor more than 300
feet, except where there are unusual topographic, geologic, hydrologic, or
environmental conditions present or to coordinate with the existing street
pattern.
   (C)   Where a block is more than 800 feet long, the City Council may require
a minimum five-foot wide walkway within a 15-foot right-of-way through the
block to provide circulation to schools, playgrounds, parks, shopping centers,
transportation or other community facilities.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.34 LOTS.
   (A)   All lot side lines shall be at right angles to straight street lines
or radial to curved street lines as far as possible.
   (B)   Double frontage. Except as provided elsewhere in this title, lots with
frontage on two parallel streets should be avoided where possible.
   (C)   Minimum dimensions of lots shall be according to the zoning district
in which the subdivision is to be located.
   (D)   Corner lots shall have extra width to allow for zoning requirements of
side yards on corner lots.
   (E)   Corners of lots on major street intersections and at all other points
likely to be dangerous in residential areas shall be rounded by a minimum
radius of 15 feet at the street corner.
   (F)   Lot remnants. Lot remnants which are below minimum lot area or
dimension must be added to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than to be
allowed to remain as an unsuitable outlet or parcel unless the subdivider can
show acceptable plans for the future use of such remnants.
   (G)   Lots shall be laid out to provide drainage away from buildings.
Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the storm drainage pattern
for the area.
   (H)   Each lot shall abut a public sanitary sewer main and a public water
main within a street right-of-way or public utility easement.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.35 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   A minimum easement of ten feet in width shall be provided for public
utilities. The width of easements for public sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and
water mains shall be not less than twice the planned depth of each main or 20
feet, whichever is greater. Proper coordination shall be established between
the subdivider and the applicable utility companies for the establishment of
utility easements.
   (B)   Where a subdivision contains a natural ponding area or is traversed by
a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream, a stormwater drainage easement
shall be provided, which substantially conforms to the ponding area or lines of
such watercourse. Such easements shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   There shall be no perennial plantings in utility easements.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.36 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Before any final plat or minor subdivision is approved by the
City Council or recorded, the subdivider shall make and install the applicable
improvements listed in division (E) of this section. In lieu of completion
prior to final approval, the city shall require a contract secured by a cash
deposit, certified check, or bond in an amount and with surety and conditions
satisfactory to it, to assure the city that such improvements will actually be
constructed and installed according to the approved specifications within one
year of final approval. The City Council may, on an annual basis and upon a
showing of good cause, agree to an extension of the aforesaid contract for up
to a period no longer than one year at a time as to all or any portion of the
required improvements.
      (2)   No building permits will be issued for construction within the
subdivision prior to the completion of the improvements in divisions (E)(1)
through (8) below or prior to the receipt of the security required above so as
to assure completion. No occupancy permit will be issued within the subdivision
prior to the completion of the improvements in divisions (E)(6) and (7) below.
      (3)   A final plat or minor subdivision shall be exempt from the
requirements of division (A)(1) if the improvements are otherwise financed
pursuant to the terms of the Workforce Housing Program, which was adopted by
the City Council on November 10, 2008.
   (B)   All required improvements shall be made in accordance with good
engineering practices and the accepted practices and ordinances of the city.
   (C)   All required improvements shall be approved in writing on the final
plat before construction of the improvements is begun. This approval shall be
given by the Fire Chief, Manager of Utilities, City Engineer, or by any public
officer under whose departments the installation may be affected. Sanitary
sewers and water mains shall be approved by the applicable regulatory agencies.
   (D)   All required improvements installed under this section shall be
inspected during the course of their construction by the City Engineer. All of
the inspection costs shall be paid by the subdivider.
   (E)   The following developer-installed improvements are required:
      (1)   Grading and installation of asphaltic aggregate or other approved
base courses of all streets, and installation of concrete curb and gutter.
      (2)   Residential streets must be designed for five-ton axle load and
commercial industrial streets for ten-ton axle load.
      (3)   Width of street surface between curbs shall be not less than 36
feet in residential or secondary streets, and 44 feet in through streets.
      (4)   Grading of lots to the extent of being salable and usable.
      (5)   Installation of storm sewers with proper inlets and manholes.
      (6)   Installation of sanitary sewers with proper manholes and sewer
service connections to each property line.
      (7)   Installation of water lines including fire hydrants, leads and
valves.
      (8)   Permanent reference monuments in the subdivision at all property
corners.
      (9)   Public sidewalks along both sides of streets designated as
collector and arterial streets.
      (10)   Street trees having a trunk diameter of not less than two inches
measured two feet above grade, at least one per lot and at least every 100 feet
along all streets, to be installed by the subdivider. Existing trees which meet
the standards of this section may be used to satisfy these requirements. Only
long-lived shade trees approved by the City Forester shall be planted. Trees
shall be placed in accordance with typical layout details on file in the City
Engineer's office.
   (F)   Prior to final plat approval by the City Council or recording, the
owners of the subdivision shall petition the City Council and the City Council
shall order the installation of the following improvements:
      (1)   Surfacing of all streets within the subdivision.
      (2)   Water service.
      (3)   Upon determination of the City Engineer that in order to provide
for the orderly and efficient extension of public utilities to property outside
of the proposed development, it is necessary to construct the improvements
listed in this section of a larger size or greater depth than would be normally
required for the development, the following improvements must be petitioned
for:
         (a)   Street.
         (b)   Storm sewer.
         (c)   Sanitary sewer.
         (d)   Water.
   (G)   Upon installation of said improvements, costs attributed to the
installation will be assessed to the property owner in accordance with the
established assessment policy.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06; Am. Ord. 1024, passed 2-9-09; Am. Ord. 1030, passed
11-9-09)   
Penalty, see § 154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
provisions of § 155.999.
(Ord. 989, passed 7-10-06)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Statement of purpose
   
155.003   City land use policy
   
155.004   Legal authority
   
155.005   Provisions severable
   
155.006   Nature of contents
   
155.007   Ordinances repealed
   
155.008   Jurisdiction
   
155.009   Interpretation
   
155.010   Definitions; rules of construction and interpretation
Zoning Map, Districts and Boundaries
   
155.025   Zoning map
   
155.026   Boundary interpretation
General Regulations
   
155.040   Lots and yards
   
155.041   Height and bulk
   
155.042   Parking and loading
   
155.043   Appearance and buffering
   
155.044   Performance standards
Uses
   
155.055   Permitted uses
   
155.056   Conditional uses
   
155.057   Use groups
   
155.058   Transitional uses
   
155.059   Accessory uses
   
155.060   Conversion of dwellings
Residence Districts
   
155.070   General purposes
   
155.071   Residential districts designated
   
155.072   General provisions
   
155.073   Multi-family special review
   
155.074   R-7 special review
   
155.075   Accessory buildings in R districts
Commercial and Industrial Districts
   
155.085   General provisions
   
155.086   Commercial districts
   
155.087   Industrial districts
Special Districts
   
155.100   General provisions
   
155.101   Major Institution District (I)
   
155.102   Flood Hazard District (F)
   
155.103   Transition Zone District (TZ)
   
155.104   Shoreland Overlay District
   
155.105   Heritage Preservation
   
155.106   Lakeshore District (L)
   
155.107   Natural Features District (S)
Mobile Home Park District
   
155.120   License provisions
   
155.121   Inspections
   
155.122   Minimum park requirements
   
155.123   Minimum mobile home lot requirements
   
155.124   Site improvements
   
155.125   Fire protection
   
155.126   Miscellaneous requirements
Shoreland Overlay District
   
155.140   Statutory authorization and policy
   
155.141   General provisions
   
155.142   Definitions
   
155.143   Administration
   
155.144   Shoreland classification system and land use districts
   
155.145   Zoning and water supply/sanitary provisions
   
155.146   Nonconformities
   
155.147   Subdivision/platting provisions
   
155.148   Planned unit developments (PUD's)
Development Permits
   
155.160   Compliance of all development
   
155.161   Four types of development
   
155.162   Filing; applications
   
155.163   Issuance of development permits
   
155.164   Hearings when required
   
155.165   Effect of permit
   
155.166   Expiration of a permit
   
155.167   Permits subject to conditions
   
155.168   Inspections
   
155.169   Certificates of occupancy
   
155.170   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
155.171   Non-permit general development
Special Development
   
155.185   Intent of special development for a conditional use
   
155.186   Conditional uses
   
155.187   Flood hazard use permits
   
155.188   Planned unit development
   
155.189   Shopping center, industrial park or major institutional development
   
155.190   Interim use permit
Nonconforming Lots, Uses and Structures
   
155.200   Intent
   
155.201   Nonconforming uses of land
   
155.202   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
155.203   Nonconforming structure
   
155.204   Nonconforming lots
   
155.205   Nonconforming characteristics of use
   
155.206   Nonconforming junk yards
Administration
   
155.215   Development Administrator
   
155.216   Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustment
   
155.217   Powers of Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments
   
155.218   Appeals
   
155.219   Variances
   
155.220   Limitations on powers
   
155.221   Fees for variances and appeals
   
155.222   Variance and appeal provisions for special districts
   
155.223   District boundary changes and text amendments
   
155.224   Zoning fee schedule
   
155.225   Remedies
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Table 1. Schedule of Density, Area and Bulk Regulations
   
Appendix B:   Table 2. Schedule of Required Off-Street Parking and Loading
Spaces
   
Appendix C:   Table 3. Required Fences
   
Appendix D:   Table 4. Required Distance Buffering
   
Appendix E:   Table 5. Schedule of Use Regulations
   
Appendix F:   Schedule of Use Regulations - Shoreland Overlay District
   
Appendix G:   Table 6. Parking - Six Block Core Area
   
Appendix H:   Table 7. Parking Lot Standards - Design Criteria
   
Appendix I:   Hydrology
   
Appendix J:   Specific Development Standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to and cited as the Zoning Ordinance
of Worthington, Minnesota.
('69 Code, § 7-1)
§ 155.002 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It is the legislative purpose of this title to protect the land, air, water,
natural resources and environment of this city, to encourage their use in a
socially and economically desirable manner to achieve excellence and
originality of design in future development, and to provide a mechanism by
which the city may carry out a city land use policy.
('69 Code, § 7-2.01)
§ 155.003 CITY LAND USE POLICY.
   The City Land Use Policy is as follows:
   (A)   The designation of the City Planning Commission as the primary
authority for planning and regulating development in this city according to a
system of uniform procedural standards;
   (B)   The encouragement for the creation and adoption of land development
plan to guide the use of land, water and natural resources of the city;
   (C)   The establishment of a system of administrative and judicial review of
land use decisions which encourages effective citizen participation and prompt
resolution of disputes;
   (D)   The provision of fair and efficient means for enforcement of land
development regulations including the discontinuance of existing uses;
   (E)   Establishment of a system for permanently recording development
regulations and decisions in a manner that will enable the most efficient and
accurate dissemination of this information;
   (F)   The encouragement of cooperation among governmental agencies to help
achieve land use policy goals; and
   (G)   The provision that financial support for capital improvements be made
in accordance with city land use policy.
('69 Code, § 7-2.02)
§ 155.004 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority granted by M.S. Chapter 462.
('69 Code, § 7-3.01)
§ 155.005 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE.
   This title and the various subchapters and divisions thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. If any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence or phrase of this title is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this title shall not be
affected thereby.
('69 Code, § 7-3.02)
§ 155.006 NATURE OF CONTENTS.
   The diagrams in this title are for illustrative purposes only and neither
these diagrams, the index, nor the table of contents to this title constitute a
part of this title and need not be officially published. Other tables are part
of this title.
('69 Code, § 7-3.03)
§ 155.007 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   All ordinances inconsistent herewith and to the extent of such inconsistency
and no further, are hereby repealed.
('69 Code, § 7-3.05)
§ 155.008 JURISDICTION.
   This title shall regulate the zoning and development of land within the City
of Worthington, Minnesota.
('69 Code, § 7-4)
§ 155.009 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever this chapter imposes a
greater restriction than is imposed or required by other provisions of law or
by other rules or regulations or ordinances, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern.
('69 Code, § 7-5)
§ 155.010 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words used in
the present tense shall include the future, the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the
word "structure," the word "used" shall include "arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased" or "intended to be used," the
word "may" is permissive and the word "shall" is mandatory and not
discretionary.
   ACCESSORY USE OF STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal
use of a building or to the principal use of land and which is located on the
same parcel serving a purpose customarily incidental to the use of the
principal building or land use. Accessory uses in residential districts shall
not involve the conduct of any business, trade or industry, except as defined
under HOME OCCUPATION, or any private way or walk giving access to such
activity and shall not include the boarding of animals or the keeping of fowl
or farm animals. Accessory uses or structures to residential principal uses may
include:
      (1)   Garages, carports, other parking spaces, swimming pools, tennis
courts, and tool sheds for the exclusive use of residents of the premises and
their guests; and
      (2)   Gardening and the keeping of a limited number of household pets
exclusively for the personal enjoyment of residents of the premises and not for
commercial purposes.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The enforcement officer and development administrator of this
title.
   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business that is engaged in any of the following
activities or which utilizes any of the following business procedures or
practices:
      (1)   A business that is conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage, either
by operation of law or by the owners of such business; or
      (2)   Any business that has at least 30% or 3,000 square feet, whichever
is less, of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms,
basements, attics or any portion of the business not open to the public), or at
least 30% of its merchandise on display to the public, devoted to items,
merchandise or other material that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on material depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating
to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS as defined by §
112.02 of the business regulations.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground, having at least one-half-of its height
below the ground.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The incorporation of labor and material into the
foundations or walls of the building or buildings.
   BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling or part thereof occupied by a single housekeeping
unit where meals and lodging are provided for three or more persons for
compensation by previous arrangement, excluding transients.
   BREWPUB. A brewer who is licensed for on-sale intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor license by a municipality for a restaurant operated in the place of
manufacture under M.S. § 340A.24.
   BUILDING. Anything, temporary or permanent, which is built or constructed
for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, or property of any
kind.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average contact ground
level at the front wall of the building to the highest point of the coping of a
flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING LINE. An imaginary line separating BUILDABLE LOT AREA and required
YARDS.
   BUILDABLE LOT AREA. That part of the lot not included within the open areas
required by this title.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A permit for restoration or change of a
landmark, landmark site or historic preservation district site which shall
accompany a building or demolition permit band which is issued by the Heritage
Officer upon direction of the Commission.
   CHAIRMAN. The Chairman of the Commission or the Chairman of the Board.
   CITY. The incorporated City of Worthington, Nobles County, State of
Minnesota.
   COMMERCIAL COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any pole, monopole, lattice, guyed tower,
spires or structure intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade for commercial purposes
subject to the requirements contained within §
155.072.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission of the City of Worthington,
Minnesota.
   COMPREHENSIVE GUIDE PLAN. The long-range plan (Master Plan) for the
desirable use of land in the city as officially adopted and as amended from
time to time by the City Council; the purpose of such plan being, among other
things to serve as a guide in the zoning and progressive changes in the zoning
of land to meet changing needs, in the subdividing and use of undeveloped land,
and in the acquisition of rights-of-way or sites for public purposes. This plan
establishes the goals, objectives, and policies of the community.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A document signed by the Zoning Administrator
specifying the requirements under which a conditional use may be permitted
within a zoning unit. A conditional use is a use permitted within a district
other than a principally permitted use or accessory use.
   CONVALESCENT (REST) HOME. Home designed and licensed to provide care for
aged or infirm persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care
complying with the standards established by the State Board of Health.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Worthington, Minnesota.
   DAY (CHILD) CARE CENTER. Facilities organized to provide all day care for
six or more children under state license and operated in accord with state and
federal standards.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement: The number of dwelling units per acre of
land. As used in this ordinance, the acreage involved includes only the land
devoted to residential uses (NET DENSITY). GROSS DENSITY is the number of units
per acre of the total land to be developed.
   DEVELOPMENT. Except where the context otherwise requires, and in the absence
of a more limiting provision in this title, DEVELOPMENT means the performance
of any building or mining operation, the making of any material change in the
use or appearance of any structure or land, the division of land into two or
more parcels, and the creation or termination of rights or access or riparian
rights.
      (1)   The following activities or uses shall be taken to involve
DEVELOPMENT unless expressly excluded by this title:
         (a)   A change in type or use of a structure or land, a change from
one class of use to a use in another class or designated in this title.
         (b)   A reconstruction, alteration of the size, or material change in
the external appearance, or a structure or land.
         (c)   A material increase in the intensity of use of land, such as an
increase in the number of businesses, manufacturing establishments, offices, or
dwelling units in a structure or on land.
         (d)   Commencement of mining or excavation or a parcel of land.
         (e)   Demolition or moving of a structure or removal of trees.
         (f)   Deposit of refuse, solid or liquid waste or fill on a parcel of
land.
         (g)   In connection with the use of land, the making of any material
change in noise levels, thermal conditions, or emissions of waste material.
         (h)   Commencement or change in the location of an advertising
structure or use of land, and the commencement or change in location of
advertising on the external part of a structure.
         (i)   Alteration of a shore, bank or flood plain of a waterfront,
river, stream, lake, pond, or artificial body of water.
         (j)   Reestablishment of a use which has been abandoned for one year.
         (k)   Departure from the normal use for which development permission
has been granted, or failure to comply with the conditions of this title
granting the development permission under which the development was commenced
or is continued.
         (l)   Curb cuts along a public right-of-way.
         (m)   Work for the maintenance, renewal, improvement or alteration of
any structure if: the work affects the interior or the color of the structure,
or affects the decoration of the exterior of the structure; and, the work has a
cost or value of $5,000 or more.
         (n)   Installation, alteration, or extension of any private well or
private sewage disposal facility.
      (2)   The following operations or uses do not constitute DEVELOPMENT for
the purposes of this ordinance:
         (a)   The maintenance or improvement of a public road or railroad
track not involving substantial engineering redesign if the work is carried out
on land within the boundaries of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Work by any utility not involving substantial engineering
redesign for the purpose of inspection, repair, renewal or construction on
established right-of-way of any sewer, mains, pipes, cables, utility tunnels,
power lines, towers, poles, tracks or the like.
         (c)   Work for the maintenance, renewal, improvement or alteration of
any structure, if the work affects only the interior or the color of the
structure or decoration of the exterior of the structure (but does not
otherwise materially affect the external appearance of the structure, and has a
cost or value of less than $5,000).
         (d)   The use of any structure or land devoted to dwelling uses for
any purposes customarily incidental to enjoyment of the dwelling.
         (e)   The use of any land for the purpose of growing plants, crops,
trees, and other agricultural or forestry products other agricultural purposes
except the growing or storage of livestock.
         (f)   A change in use of land or structure from a use within a class
specified in this ordinance to another use in the same class.
         (g)   A transfer of title to land not involving the division of land
into parcels.
         (h)   The creation of time units in existing parcels of land.
         (i)   The creation or termination of easements, covenants concerning
development of land, or other rights in land not otherwise involving
development.
      (3)   Development as designated in the ordinance or development permit
includes all other development customarily associated with it unless otherwise
specified. Activities which may result in development as defined herein include
erection, construction, redevelopment, alteration, or repair when appropriate
to the result of development. Reference to any specific operation as not
involving development is not intended to mean that the operation or activity
when part of other operations or activities is not development. Reference to
particular operations is not intended to limit the generality of this
definition.
   DEVELOPMENT CONTRACT. A written agreement made prior to the issuance of a
development permit between the city and a developer, detailing the
responsibilities of the city and the developer regarding a development,
formulated by the Planning Commission and executed by the developer and the
City Council.
   DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A document issued by the Administrator authorizing
development consistent with the terms of this title and for the purpose of
carrying out or enforcing its provisions.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as
the residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, excluding a tent,
cabin, mobile home, trailer, or other temporary or portable housing.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed for or used
by three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building designed for and exclusively used for
residence purposes by one family.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A dwelling joined to other dwellings by party wall or
party walls.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for and exclusively used for
residence purposes by two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or suite of private or interconnecting rooms,
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes and
having cooking, toilet, and bathing facilities.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT (FLOOD). A method of determining the location
of encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of flood plain lands on
each side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the
increases in flood stages due to flood plain encroachments.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipe, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories
in connection therewith; reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public utilities or governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. A person living alone, or two or more persons living together as a
single housekeeping unit, in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding house, motel or hotel, fraternity or sorority house,
provided that unless all members are related by blood, adoption, marriage, or
are legally cared for, no such family shall contain over five persons.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation
of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for which
it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equalled or
exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered with the regional flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   FLOOR AREA. For the purpose of determining the floor area ratio the FLOOR
AREA of a building is the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the center line of walls separating two buildings. The FLOOR AREA of a
building shall include basement floor area (but not cellar floor area),
elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor, floor space used for mechanical
equipment (except when located on the roof, penthouses, attic space having
headroom of seven feet or more, interior balconies and mezzanines, enclosed
porches and floor area devoted to accessory uses. However, any space devoted to
parking and loading shall not be included in FLOOR AREA. The FLOOR AREA for
enclosed space having a floor to ceiling height in excess of 20 feet shall be
computed on the basis that each 15 feet of height shall be equal to one floor
for purposes of computation. Space intended for recreational use in apartment
buildings may be excluded from these calculations if the Zoning Administrator
finds that said recreational uses are suitable for the size and use of the
proposed structure.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The floor area of the building or buildings on a lot
divided by the area of such lot. The FLOOR AREA RATIO requirements, as set
forth under each zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area
allowable for the building or buildings (total floor area of both principal and
accessory building) in direct ratio to the gross area of the lot.
   FRONTAGE. All the property abutting on one side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, end of a dead-end street, or city boundary measured along the street
line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage
of the side of the street which it intercepts.
   HERITAGE FEATURE. The characteristics of a LANDMARK or LANDMARK SITE which
are to be preserved under this title. They include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   The architectural style.
      (2)   The general design and general arrangement of the exterior of a
structure including height; gross volume, street elevation; proportion between
width and height of facades; proportions and relationships between doors and
windows; the rhythm of solids and voids created by openings in the facade; and
the kind, texture, colors, and patterns of building materials.
      (3)   The exterior type, design and style of doors, windows, chimneys,
light fixtures, walls, fences, ornamentation and other details.
      (4)   The directional expressions of the street facades should blend with
other buildings. That is, dominant horizontal or vertical elements should be
carried over and reflected in adjacent buildings.
      (5)   The existing rhythm created by building setbacks, masses, and
spaces between them.
      (6)   The rhythm, proportion, materials and arrangement of exterior
spaces, lawns, gardens, patios, walks, drives, and natural features such as
shrubbery and trees.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
immediate family residing on the premises as an accessory use, provided no
exterior storage of equipment or materials is used in connection with the home
occupation; the use occupies no more than one-quarter of the area of one floor;
that no structural alterations or construction involving features not
customarily  found in dwellings are required, and the entrance to the space
devoted to such use shall be from within the dwelling. There shall be no
detriments to the residential character of the neighborhood due to the emission
of noise, odor, smoke, dust, gas, heat, glare, vibration, electrical
interference, traffic congestion, or any other annoyance resulting from the
home occupation.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste or second hand materials are bought and
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including but
not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, used
lumber and bottles. A junk yard includes automobile wrecking yards, and
includes any area of more than 200 square feet for storage, seven or more
inoperable vehicles on an auto repair lot, keeping or abandonment of junk but
excludes uses established entirely within enclosed buildings in nonresidential
districts. It also excludes establishments for the sale or purchase of used
operable automobile, and the processing of used, discarded or salvage materials
as part of those manufacturing operations which conform to this title.
   LANDMARK. Any identified improvement, which has a special character or
special historic interest or cultural value as part of the heritage of the
city, and which has been designated as a landmark pursuant to this title.
   LANDMARK SITE. Any parcel of historic significance having value in tracing
the history of aboriginal man or upon which a historical event has occurred,
and which has been designated as a landmark site pursuant to this title. A
LANDMARK SITE includes the parcel upon which a landmark has been built.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LOT. A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
principal building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or
utilized for a principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such
open space as required by this title, and having frontage on a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of intersection
of the street lines is the corner.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by buildings, accessory buildings,
and structures measured as a percentage of the total area of the lot.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from a street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from a street is called a side street lot line. A side
lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an interior side
lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth.
   MAJOR STREET. An officially designated federal or state numbered highway or
county or other road or street designated on the official Thoroughfare (or
Major Streets) Plan of the city.
   MINIMUM FLOOR AREA. For the purpose of determining MINIMUM FLOOR AREA, the
floor area shall be determined by multiplying the length times the width
outside dimensions of the structure, excluding the dimensions of accessory
structures and attached garages.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured relocatable unit designated for long-term human
occupancy which is 30 feet or more in overall
length.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any tract of land under single ownership which has been
planned, improved and approved by the city for the placement of two or more
mobile homes for nontransient use.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot which does not comply with the minimum lot area or
width requirements of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which does not comply with the bulk,
yard, setback or height regulations of the district in which it is located, and
does not comply with all other applicable regulations of this title.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND. Any use of a lot which does not conform to the
applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES. A use of a structure which does not conform
to the applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   OBJECTIONABLE ELEMENT. Any use operated in the manner described under the
performance standards of this title.
   OBSTRUCTION (FLOOD). Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across, or
projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood hazard area which
may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or that is
placed where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of
life or property.
   OUTDOOR SEATING AREA.  An outdoor seating/serving area compact and
contiguous to a bar, tavern, restaurant, café, coffee shop, brewery, brewpub,
or distillery subject to §
155.085(G).
   PARCEL. A parcel of land means any contiguous quantity of land capable of
being described with such definiteness that its location and boundaries may be
established, which is designated by its owner or developer as land to be used
or developed as a unit, or which has been used or developed as a unit. Parcel
includes an easement supporting or related to a primary parcel, and a
condominium unit.
   PARKING SPACE. A permanently surfaced area of not less than 200 square feet,
either within a structure or in the open, exclusive of driveways or access
drives for the parking of a motor vehicle.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A standard established in the interest of protecting
the public health and safety for the control of noise, odor, smoke, noxious
gases and other objectionable and dangerous elements, which are generated by
and inherent in or incidental to land use.
   PETROLEUM BULK STORAGE. The storage of chemicals, petroleum products, or
hazardous materials in above ground tanks designed for subsequent sale for
wholesale distribution or mass consumption off-premises.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. A district which is established by
special Council action in order to encourage more efficient use of land and
public services, and to encourage greater amenity by allowing - under certain
circumstances - a more flexible means of land development and redevelopment
than is otherwise permissible under the lot by lot restrictions of each use
district. A Planned Unit Development District may be located in any existing
zone district or districts.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public
purpose, as defined in M.S. § 105.37(6). However, no lake, pond or flowage of
less than ten acres in size and no river or stream having a total drainage area
less than two square miles shall be regulated for the purposes of these
regulations. A body of water created by a private user where there was no
previous shoreland, as defined herein, for a designated private use
authorized.by the Commissioner of Natural Resources shall be exempt from the
provisions of these regulations.
   REACH (FLOOD). A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal
segments of a stream or river influenced by a natural or man- made obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would most typically constitute a REACH.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the water surface
profile associated with the regional flood plus any increases in flood heights
attributable to encroachments on the flood plain. It is the elevation to which
uses regulated by this ordinance are required to be elevated or flood proofed.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A preplanned group of retail stores with common use areas
for access, pedestrian, auto and service circulation, common parking and
landscaping.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
      (1)   1,000 feet from the ordinary high water mark of a lake, pond, or
flowage; and
      (2)   300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a flood
plain designated by ordinance on such a river or stream, whichever is greater.
The practical limits of shorelands may be less than the statutory limits where
such limits are designated by natural drainage divides at lesser distances, as
shown on the official zoning map of the municipality.
   SIGN, AREA OF. The total area enclosed by a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the sign structure computed in square feet for
      (1)   A sign having but one exposed exterior surface and
      (2)   One-half the total of the exposed exterior surface computed in
square feet of a sign having more than one such surface intended for display.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude. (That is a 3:1 slope is a three
feet horizontal and one foot vertical.)
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way more than 30 feet in width,
approved or accepted by public authority or user, which provides a primary
means of public access to abutting property. The term STREET shall include
avenue, drive, circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any
other similar term.
   STRUCTURE. Any building; or any piece of work artificially built up or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a
permanent location on the ground.
   TAPROOM. A brewer who is licensed for on-sale of malt liquor produced by the
brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery location
owned by the brewer under M.S. § 340A.26, Subd. 1.
   TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY. The living in or use of property or in building thereon
for a limited time only without intent to use property as a year-round
residence. (Ord. 590, eff. 6-26-78)
   TOWNHOUSE. Any one of two or more attached dwellings in a continuous row,
each such dwelling designed and erected as a townhouse unit on a separate lot
and separated from one another by an approved wall or walls.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or structure constructed in such a manner as to permit
occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters or the conduct of any business, trade or
occupation or used for storage or conveyance for merchandise, tools, equipment,
machinery, or other personal property, and so designed that it is or may be
mounted on wheels and used as a. conveyance on highways and streets. Any
trailer less than 30 feet in overall length is defined as a travel trailer and
any relocateable unit over 30 feet in overall length is defined as a MOBILE
HOME.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which either land or a building or structure is,
or may be, occupied or maintained.
   YARD. An open space other than a court, on a lot, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this title.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and a line
parallel thereto on the lot. Such depth shall be measured from the right-of-way
line of the existing street on which the lot fronts (the front lot line);
provided, however, that if the proposed location of the right-of-way line of
such street as established on the Thoroughfare Plan or on the Official Map of
the City of Worthington differs from that of the existing street, then the
required front yard least depth shall be measured from the right-of-way line of
such street as designated on said Thoroughfare Plan or Official Map.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and a line parallel
thereto on the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width
of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the side lot line and a
line parallel thereto on the lot.
   YARD, SIDE, LEAST WIDTH, HOW MEASURED. Such width shall be measured from the
nearest side lot line and, in case the nearest side lot line is a street lot
line, from the right-of-way line of the existing street; provided, however,
that if the proposed location of the right-of-way line of such street as
established on the Thoroughfare Plan or on the "Official Map of the City of
Worthington" differs from that of the existing street, then the required side
yard least width shall be measured from the right-of-way of such street as
designated on the Thoroughfare Plan or Official Map.
('69 Code, § 7-6.02) (Am. Ord. 812, passed 7-10-95; Am. Ord. 829, passed 2-24-
97; Am. Ord. 846, passed 9-8-97; Am. Ord. 1065, passed 12-10-12; Am. Ord. 1112,
passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 1116, passed 7-9-18; Am. Ord. 1157, passed 3-9-20; Am.
Ord. 1159, passed 3-23-20; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1168,
passed 3-22-21)
ZONING MAP, DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 155.025 ZONING MAP.
   The city is hereby divided into zoning districts as shown on the zoning map.
The zoning map together with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this title. ('69 Code, § 7-7)
   (A)   Signature and seal. The zoning map shall be identified by the
signature of the Chairman of the Planning Commission attested by the City Clerk
and bearing the seal of the city under the following words: "This is to certify
that this is the Official Zoning Map of the City of Worthington, Minnesota."
('69 Code, § 7-7.01)
   (B)   Changes in map. If, in accordance with the provisions of this title,
changes are made in district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the zoning
map, such changes shall be made on the zoning map promptly after the amendment
has been approved by the City Council. The Administrator shall make such
changes. ('69 Code, § 7-7.02)
   (C)   Unauthorized change. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this title and punishable
as provided under the provisions of this title. ('69 Code, § 7-7.03)
   (D)   Final authority. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of
the zoning map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official
zoning map shall be the final authority of the current zoning status and shall
be located in the office of the Administrator. ('69 Code, § 7-7.04)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.026 BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any districts as
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply: ('69 Code, § 7-8)
   (A)   Centerlines as boundaries. Where district boundaries are indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streets or highways, street lines
or highway right-of-way lines, such center lines, street lines, or highway
right-of-way lines shall be construed to be such boundaries. ('69 Code, § 7-
8.01)
   (B)   Lot lines as boundaries. Where district boundaries are so indicated
that they approximately follow the lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed
to be said boundaries. ('69 Code, § 7-8.02)
   (C)   Boundaries parallel with center lines or right-of-way lines. Where
district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately parallel to or
extensions of the center lines or street lines of streets, or the center lines
or right-of-way lines of highways, such district boundaries shall be construed
as being
parallel thereto or extensions thereof, and at such distance therefrom as
indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is given, such dimension shall be
determined by the use of the scale shown on said zoning map. ('69 Code, § 7-
8.03)
   (D)   Water body or railroad line. Where the boundary of a district follows
a water line or railroad line, said boundary shall be deemed to be located
midway between the shores of the water body or the main tracks of said railroad
line. ('69 Code, § 7-8.04)
   (E)   Boundary dividing lot. Where a district boundary divides a lot which
was in single ownership at the time of enactment of this title, the use
authorized thereon and the other district requirements applying to the most
restricted portion of such lot under this title shall be construed as extending
to the entire lot. This provision shall not pertain to flood hazard overlay
districts. ('69 Code, § 7-8.05)
   (F)   Effect of vacation on boundary. Whenever any street, alley or other
public way is vacated by official action, the zoning district adjoining such
public way shall be extended automatically and include all land attached by
reversion and it shall be subject to all regulations of the extended district
or districts. ('69 Code, § 7-8.06)
   (G)   "E" District. All properties not specifically included within a
district are hereby declared to be in the "E" District. Whenever land is
annexed or consolidated with the city, it shall automatically fall within an
"E" District unless otherwise provided by ordinance adopted at the time of
annexation or consolidation. ('69 Code, § 7-8.07)
   (H)   Administrator to interpret. Where physical or cultural features
existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on the zoning map, or
in other circumstances not covered above, the Administrator shall interpret the
district boundaries. ('69 Code, § 7-8.08)
   (I)   Board to interpret. Where there appears to be a conflict between the
mapped flood hazard overlay district and actual field conditions, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting
the location of the district boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to present his case to the Board and submit his own technical evidence if he so
desires. ('69 Code, § 7-8.09)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.040 LOTS AND YARDS.
   (A)   Required area or space cannot be reduced. No lot, yard, court, parking
area or other space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to make said
area or dimension less than the minimum required by this title, except as
provided in division (B) below of this section. No part of a yard, court,
parking area, or other space provided about, or for, any building or structure
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title, shall be
included as part of yard, court, parking area, or
other space required under this title for another building or structure except
for parking as provided in §§ 155.216 through 155.222. The required yard and
lot dimensions are shown on Table 1. (See Appendix A following this chapter.)
('69 Code, § 7-9.01)
   (B)   Required yards reduced. Under certain conditions, a required yard on a
subject property may be reduced when the applicant secures a conditional use
permit and meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant holds a minimum four-foot easement and deed
restriction on all properties which will abut the reduced set-back lot line.
Said easement and deed restriction shall:
         (a)   Permit access to the abutting property by the subject property
owner, or his representatives, for the purposes of construction, reconstruction
and maintenance of the subject property,
         (b)   Allow necessary footings and eaves for the subject structure,
         (c)   Require maintenance and paint color to be as close to the
original construction and color as possible, except by written permit of the
affected neighbor and
         (d)   Make the city an interested party to said easement and deed
restriction.
      (2)   The reduced setback lot line wall must be a solid masonry wall
except for windows facing the abutting property's front yard.
      (3)   The height of the structure shall not exceed 14 feet within any
portion of the previously required yard, except when the structure is joined by
a party wall with a structure on the abutting lot.
      (4)   The minimum distance between eaves of any building on the subject
lot and any building on an abutting lot shall be eight feet, except when joined
by a party wall.
      (5)   A reduced setback on a north lot line shall be approved only when
the applicant can demonstrate that the abutting property's use of the adjacent
space will not be restricted by the sun's shadow.
      (6)   The Administrator shall establish that the proposed development is
compatible with the neighborhood.
('69 Code, § 7-9.02)
   (C)   Division of lots. No lot improved with a building or buildings shall
hereafter be divided into two or more lots and no portion of any lot which is
improved with a building or buildings shall be sold, unless all lots resulting
from each such division or sale and improved with building or buildings shall
conform with all of the bulk regulations of the district in which the property
is located.
   (D)   Frontage and front yards.
      (1)   Street frontage required. Except as permitted by other provisions
of this title, no lot shall contain any building used in whole, or part, for
residential purposes unless such lot abuts for at least 40 feet on a street;
and there shall be not more than one single-family dwelling for such frontage.
      (2)   Frontage modifications. In the case of curvilinear streets and cul-
de-sacs, the Administrator may authorize a reduction of the otherwise specified
lot frontage in R Districts provided that the lot width measured at the
building line shall equal the frontage required in the district where located.
All buildings shall be so placed so they will not obstruct the provision of
future streets when so requested by the Commission.
      (3)   Double frontage lots. Lots having frontage on two non-intersecting
streets shall be deemed as double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be
subject to maintain the required front yard setback along both streets, except
those yards along county, state or federal highway right-of-ways in the
following subdivision: Castlewood Knolls, Dano Addition, Glenwood Heights First
Addition, Homewood Hills 7th Addition, and Watlands Second Addition.
      (4)   Average depth of front yards. In any R District, where the average
depth of at least two existing front yards on lots within 150 feet of the lot
in question and with in the same block front is less or greater than the least
front yard depth prescribed elsewhere in this title, the required depth of the
front yard on such lot shall be modified to be not less than the average depth
of said existing front yards on the two lots immediately adjoining, less five
feet; provided, however, that the depth of a front yard on any lot shall be at
least ten feet and need not exceed 35 feet.
      (5)   Vision clearance on corner lots. On any corner lot, no foliage,
fence, sign or other structure shall extend or be erected between a height of
2½ feet and eight feet above the elevation of the established grade at the
intersection of the two street lines on that part of the lot which is bounded
by the street lines of the two intersected streets and a line connecting two
points of said street lines 25 feet from their point of intersection.
('69 Code, § 7-9.04)
   (E)   Side yard - corner lots. A side yard along the side street lot line of
a corner lot, which lot abuts in the rear, either directly or across an alley,
the side lot line of another lot in an R District, shall have a width of not
less than one-half the required depth of the front yard on such other lot
fronting the side street. ('69 Code, § 7-9.05)
   (F)   Yard projection in R Districts. Certain architectural features may
project into required yards or courts as follows:
      (1)   Front and side yards. Into any required front yard, or required
side yard adjoining a side street lot line, cornices, canopies, eaves or other
architectural features may project a distance not exceeding two feet, six
inches; fire escapes and decks may project a distance not exceeding five feet,
an
uncovered stair and necessary landings may project a distance not to exceed six
feet, provided such stair and landing shall not extend above the entrance floor
of the building except for a railing not exceeding three feet in height; bay
windows, balconies, uncovered porches and chimneys may project a distance not
exceeding three feet, provided that such features do not occupy, in the
aggregate, more than 1/3 of the length of the building wall on which they are
located. Other canopies may be permitted under a conditional use permit issued
by the Administrator.
      (2)   Interior side yards and rear yards. Subject to the limitations
above, the above-named features may project into any required yard adjoining an
interior lot line, a distance not to exceed one-fifth (1/5) of the required
least width of such yard, but not exceeding three feet in any case, except that
an uncovered deck may project into the required rear yard a distance not to
exceed ten feet.
('69 Code, § 7-9.06) (Ord. 627, eff. 10-14-80)
   (G)   Fences, walls, hedges and signs. Fences, walls, hedges and signs may
be located in any required yard or buildable lot area as required elsewhere in
this title. ('69 Code, § 7-9.08)
   (H)   Rear dwellings. No building in the rear of a principal building on the
same lot shall be used for residential purposes unless it conforms to all the
lot area, yard and other open space and off-street parking requirements of this
title. For the purpose of determining the front yard in such cases, the rear
line of the required rear yard for the principal building in front shall be
considered the front lot line for the building in the rear. In addition, there
must be provided for any such rear dwelling, an unoccupied and unobstructed
accessway to a public street of not less than 24 feet width. ('69 Code, § 7-
9.09)
   (I)   Side yard exception in R-1 and R-2 Districts. On lots created prior to
August 1, 1969, the required side yard shall not exceed 13.33% of the frontage
width. ('69 Code, § 7-9.10)
   (J)   Setback exceptions for handicap/wheelchair ramps in all R districts.
The Zoning Administrator may authorize installation of a handicap/wheelchair
ramp within a required setback in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   The applicant has submitted a letter from a licensed physician
specifying that the handicap/wheelchair ramp is necessary to accommodate a
resident of the property.
      (2)   The handicap/wheelchair ramp shall be designed so as to encroach
into the required setback the minimum distance feasible. In no case shall the
ramp be closer than three feet from a property line unless in the opinion of
the Zoning Administrator there is no other feasible alternative to the location
of the ramp.
      (3)   The handicap/wheelchair ramp shall not encroach into any recorded
easement or into the public right-of-way.
      (4)   The encroachment into the required setback shall be removed when
the individual requiring the handicap/wheelchair ramp no longer resides on the
property or the ramp is no longer required.
      (5)   The handicap/wheelchair ramp shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA).
(Am. Ord. 896, passed 8-28-00; Am. Ord. 1152, passed 10-14-19)
§ 155.041 HEIGHT AND BULK.
   (A)   Maximum height limits and maximum bulk requirements set. The required
height and bulk regulations are shown on the table Schedule of Density, Area
and Bulk Regulation. (See Appendix A following this chapter.) ('69 Code, § 7-
10.01)
   (B)   Height exceptions other than those specified for airport zoning. The
height limitations of this title shall not apply to church spires, belfries,
cupolas, penthouses and domes, not used for human occupancy, nor to chimneys,
ventilators, skylights, wireless towers, water tanks, bulk heads, similar
features and necessary mechanical appurtenances usually carried above the roof
level. Such features however, shall be erected only to such height as is
necessary to accomplish the purpose they are to serve. ('69 Code, § 7-10.02)
   (C)   Ornamental features. The provisions of this title shall not apply to
prevent the erection above the building height limit of a parapet wall or
cornice for ornament (and without windows) extending above such height limit
not more than five feet. ('69 Code, § 7-10.03)
   (D)   Institutions. Public, semi-public hospitals, institutions, schools or
public utility and service buildings, when permitted in a district, may be
erected to a height not exceeding 60 feet, provided said specified buildings
shall be set back from the front, rear and side lot lines on the ratio of two
feet for every one foot of building height greater than 40 feet; provided,
however, that said specified requirements shall apply in addition to the other
requirements for building line setbacks and for rear and side yards
specifically set forth in this title. ('69 Code, § 7-10.04)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.042 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Requirements.
      (1)   All parking and loading space needs generated by development shall
be accommodated off-street. Such spaces shall not be less in number than the
parking and loading space requirements of Table 2 (See
Appendix B following this chapter), except as provided in division (L).
      (2)   An exception to division (A)(1) above shall be made in the six
block core area of the city bounded by 2nd Avenue, 5th Avenue, 9th Street and
11th Street. Table No. 6 designates the off-street parking required for the
following uses in that six block core area:
         (a)   Residential use groups (Table 6 Parking Six Block Core Area).
Table 6 lists the residential use groups and designates whether a particular
use is required to provide off-street parking in the six block core area of the
city, as defined above. To determine if a use is required to provide parking:
            1.   Find the use in the first column.
            2.   Read across to the second column. The Schedule of Uses for the
B-2 Central Business District has been listed for information only, since the
six block core area listed above is located entirely within the B-2 District.
Table 5 designates the only uses permitted within this district.
            3.   Read across to the third column. If the word “Required” is
listed then off-street parking spaces shall be required. If the words “Not
Required” are listed, then off-street parking spaces shall not be required. If
the phrase “may be exempt as determined through conditional use permit process”
is listed, the use may or may not be required to provide off-street parking
depending upon the outcome of the conditional use permit process required for
that use.
         (b)   Nonresidential use groups (Table 6 Parking Six Block Core Area.
Table 6 lists the nonresidential use groups and designates whether a particular
use is required to provide off-street parking in the six block core area of the
city, as defined above. To determine if a use is require to provide parking:
            1.   Find the use in the first column.
            2.   Read across to the second column. The Schedule of Uses for the
B-2 Central Business District has been listed for information only, since the
six block core area listed above is located entirely within the B-2 District.
Table 5 designates the only uses permitted within this district.
            3.   Read across to the third column. If the word “Required” is
listed then off-street parking spaces shall be required. If the words “Not
Required” are listed, then off-street parking spaces shall not be required. If
the phrase “may be exempt as determined through conditional use permit process”
is listed the use may or may not be required to provide off-street parking
depending upon the outcome of the conditional use permit process required for
that use.
      (3)   The sole purpose of Table 6 is to specify whether or not a
particular use is required to provide parking in the six block core area of the
city as defined in division (A)(2) above. Some uses listed in Table 6 may not
be permitted by the underlying zoning district which encompass the six block
core area. Table 6 shall not be read or utilized in any way to determine
whether or not a specific use is permitted or not permitted by the underlying
zoning district.
('69 Code, § 7-11.01) (Am. Ord. 821, passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. 853, passed 1-12-
98)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   LOADING SPACE. A dustless and durable, hard surfaced area of
adequate size for the delivery vehicles expected to be used, logically and
conveniently located for bulk pickup and delivery, readily accessible when
required parking spaces are filled, which shall be located totally outside of
any street or alley right-of-way.
      (2)   PARKING SPACE. A dustless and durable, hard surfaced area adequate
for parking an automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together
with a clear properly related access to a public street or alley and
maneuvering room, which shall be located totally outside of any street or alley
right-of-way.
('69 Code, § 7-11.02)
   (C)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses listed in
this section shall be determined by the Administrator.
      (2)   Fractional numbers shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
      (3)   Parking and loading spaces which were in existence on the effective
date of this title or were provided voluntarily after such date shall not
hereafter be reduced in number except to conform to the requirements herein.
      (4)   Parking and loading spaces shall be used solely for the intended
use and not for the storage of goods, or of vehicles which are inoperable, for
lease, rent or sale.
('69 Code, § 7-11.03) (Am. Ord. 847, passed 10-27-97)
   (D)   Proximity.
      (1)   Parking and loading spaces generated by development shall be
located on the same parcel as the use which they are intended to serve.
      (2)   An exception to the provisions of division (D)(1) above may be made
in the B-2 district, or whenever required parking and loading spaces cannot be
located on the parcel in other districts because of development restrictions
imposed by the presence of an existing principal structure which is to continue
in use. Required parking may then be provided off the parcel, for permitted
uses only, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   If the use is residential, hotel, motel, or tourist home, the
off-lot spaces shall be within 200 feet of the principal entrance or the
entrance for individual occupants for whom spaces are reserved.
         (b)   If the use is other than residential, hotel, motel, or tourist
home, the farthest portion of the parking lot shall be within 500 feet of an
entrance to the establishment.
         (c)   Distances indicated above shall be measured along routes
generally available to the pedestrians involved.
         (d)   Parking spaces may be at greater distances than those indicated
above when approved by the Commission.
         (e)   Such off-lot spaces shall be located only in districts in which
similar off-street parking is permitted.
         (f)   The off-lot parking area shall be:
            1.   Held in fee simple by the same owner as the use requiring the
off-street parking space, or
            2.   Under lease, rental, or other form of agreement satisfactory
to the administrative official as assuring continuing availability for required
off-street parking for the use, or
            3.   Established by the city for the purpose of providing such off-
lot parking for specified areas and/or land uses, and with number of spaces
allocated by specific individual lots.
('69 Code, § 7-11.04) (Am. Ord. 821, passed 4-8-96)
   (E)   Collective usage.
      (1)   Mixed occupancies. In the cases of two or more uses in the same
building, the total requirements for off-street parking facilities shall be the
sum of the requirements for the several uses computed separately. Off-street
parking facilities for one use shall not be considered as providing required
parking facilities for any other use, except as herein after specified in
division (E)(3) below, for joint use.
      (2)   Cooperative parking facility. Up to 15% reduction in the number of
required parking spaces for three or more separate uses; and 10% for two
separate uses may be authorized by the Administrator following approval of a
plan which provides for a collective parking facility, serving two or more
buildings or uses developed through voluntary cooperation or under any parking
district which may hereafter be provided by law.
      (3)   Joint but alternative use. The Administrator may authorize the
joint use of parking facilities under the following conditions:
         (a)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities by night-time uses may be
supplied by the off-street parking facilities of day-time uses.
         (b)   Up to 50% of the parking facilities of day-time uses may be
supplied by the off-street parking facilities of night-time uses.
         (c)   Up to 100% of the parking facilities of a church or auditorium
incidental to a graded school may be supplied by the off-street parking
facilities of day-time uses.
         (d)   For the purpose of this section:
            1.   DAY-TIME USES are defined as offices, banks, retail stores,
personal service or repair shops, household equipment or furniture stores,
manufacturing or wholesale or similar primarily day-time uses, and
            2.   NIGHT-TIME USES are defined as auditoriums incidental to
graded schools, churches, bowling alleys, dance halls, theaters, bars or
restaurants, motels, or similar primarily night-time or Sunday uses.
         (e)   Conditions required for joint use:
            1.   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use,
shall be located within 500 feet of such parking facilities.
            2.   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
            3.   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney shall be filed with the
Administrator. Joint use parking privilege shall continue in effect only so
long as such an instrument, binding on all parties, remains in force. If such
instrument becomes legally ineffective, then parking shall be provided as
otherwise required by division (A) above of this section.
('69 Code, § 7-11.05)
   (F)   Parking and storage of certain vehicles.
      (1)   The parking of a disabled vehicle within a residential or
commercial district for a period of more than two weeks shall be prohibited,
unless such vehicle is stored in an enclosed garage or other accessory
building.
      (2)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type without current
license plates or trucks over one ton shall not be parked or stored on any
residentially zoned property other than in completely enclosed buildings.
However, two recreation vehicles (i.e. one boat and one travel trailer) may be
stored in the rear yard if they have a current license.
('69 Code, § 7-11.06)
   (G)   Design.
      (1)   Plot plan. Any application for a building permit shall include
therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any
parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this Ordinance.
      (2)   Size. The minimum acceptable parking lot design criteria shall be
that corresponding to the nine-foot stall width in Table 7 Parking Lot
Standards - Design Criteria. (See
 Appendix G following this chapter.)
      (3)   Surfacing and drainage.
         (a)   Parking and loading areas shall be graded and drained to dispose
of all surface water accumulated within the area. All required parking and
loading spaces and access drives shall be paved, except for residential uses of
less than four units.
         (b)   In order to better protect and enhance public health, safety,
and general welfare, construction of a dustless and durable hard surface is
required on any part of a parcel of property used primarily for parking, where
such parcel is located in the B-3 General Business District, and where such
parcel abuts property located within a residential zone.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or
loading areas shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way
as not to create a nuisance to either residential properties or oncoming
vehicles.
('69 Code, § 7-11.07) (Am. Ord. 821, passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. 847, passed 10-27-
97)
   (H)   Procedures on publicly established parking. Where the city proposes to
establish parking lots to provide off-lot parking for specific uses within such
areas, and where off-lot parking spaces in such lots are to be allocated to
lands within such areas in order to assist in meeting the off-street parking
requirements of this title, these procedures shall be followed:
      (1)   A report shall be prepared by the Commission for official action by
the City Council, containing the following information and recommendations:
         (a)   Reasons for establishing area (a statement of the arguments for
public action in the case, including a recital of the peculiar problems of the
area which make it difficult or impossible for individual property owners to
provide parking as required by this title and the public benefits to be
expected as a result of public participation in the provisions for such
parking.)
         (b)   Boundaries include all land intended to be primarily benefited
by the establishment of the facility shall not extend farther than provided in
division (D)(2) above.
         (c)   Boundaries and layout of the proposed lot, total number of
parking spaces to be provided, and location of vehicular and pedestrian
accessways and other features, including buffering, general landscape
treatment, and the like.
         (d)   Net area, within the boundaries established under division (G)
above of this section of lots on which uses requiring off-street parking under
the terms of this title exist or might be expected to be established, or net
area of lots which are or might be expected to be occupied by particular
classes of uses to which spaces are to be allocated.
         (e)   Allocation formula to be applied, expressed as number of parking
spaces per 1,000 square feet of net lot area.
      (2)   Upon formal approval of such proposal by the Council and completion
of the parking lot, allocation of off-lot parking spaces according to the
formula approved shall become effective. The Council shall establish an annual
fee per off-street parking space in such lot, and may from-time to time amend
such fee. No owner of land shall be required to pay such fee except in
connection with reservation or use of all or part of his allocation, but no
portion thereof shall be alienated from the land to which it applies except on
written consent of the owner if the fee has been paid or by consent of the city
on payment of the fee, if the owner has not paid such fee. Such allocation may
be for periods of only one year, renewable for periods of only one year.
Subject to these requirements:
         (a)   An owner of land desiring to use all or part of the allocation
running with such land to satisfy all or part of the requirements of this
chapter for off-street parking may do so upon payment of the annual fee per
space established by the Council.
         (b)   An owner of land who has used all of the allocation running with
such land to satisfy part of the requirements of this title for off-street
parking may use remaining unused allocations of others for temporary
satisfaction of all or part of the remaining parking requirements, but only
upon written consent of the owner or owners of other allocations who have paid
the fee to reserve them, but are not using them, or from remaining unreserved
allocations upon which no fee has been paid. Written consent of owners
assigning unused spaces shall specify number of spaces released, and that
number of spaces remaining under the control of such owners is sufficient to
meet the requirements of this title for his use. Unreserved allocations may be
assigned by the city upon payment of the annual fee per space. In either case,
assignment shall be for a period of one year only, and the person to whom
spaces are assigned shall agree that unless the number of off-street parking
spaces required by the use is maintained, the nature or extent of the use will
be changed to conform with the off-street parking provided.
      (3)   In connection with temporary assignments of unused allocation of
parking spaces, no owner of land shall be permitted temporary use of a number
of spaces equal to more than his full allocation, or more than 25% of the total
number of unreserved spaces.
('69 Code, § 7-11.08)
   (I)   Off-street nonconformities. The requirements of this chapter shall be
subject to
§§ 155.200 through
155.206.
 ('69 Code, § 7-11.09) (Am. Ord. 853, passed 1-12-98; Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-
14-02; Am. Ord. 1118, passed 9-10-18)
   (J)   Enforcement. This section is subject to
§§ 155.225 and
155.999. ('69 Code, § 7-11.10)
   (K)   Installation of required parking.
      (1)   The hard surfacing of all parking and loading spaces generated by
development shall be accomplished within one year from the date that the
development occurred requiring the hard surfaced parking and loading spaces,
except as provided in division (K)(2) below of this section.
      (2)   The one year time limit, stated in division (K)(1) above, for
providing the hard surfacing of all parking and loading spaces generated by
development, may, upon a finding of no significant impact, be suspended by the
Planning Commission if the property on which development is to occur does not
abut on any hard surfaced street. The Planning Commission may, at its
discretion, suspend the one year time unit for all the area required to be hard
surfaced, as specified in this section, or only a portion of the required hard
surfaced parking area. Such suspension may be for a specified time period or
until certain specified conditions exist, but under no circumstances shall the
suspension exceed the date on which the street on which the subject property
abuts is hard surfaced. A suspension of the time limit shall, without further
notice to the owner of property allowed such a suspension, automatically expire
at such time as the time period suspended by the Planning Commission expires,
the specified conditions exist, or the street on which the subject property
abuts is hard surfaced.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall base a finding of no significant
impact shall be based on the following criteria:
         (a)   Location of the proposed development and its proximity to uses
that may have a significant impact from the generation of dust, erosion or
other pollution.
         (b)   Size and layout of the required parking area, including number
and type of vehicle traffic.
         (c)   Potential erosion and other pollution from the parking area.
      (4)   The suspension of the time limit shall be requested in writing by
the owner of the property and this request must be submitted together with the
following:
         (a)   Site plan.
         (b)   Floor area of the existing uses and any proposed uses in the
development.
         (c)   Number of employees, and number of employees by shift.
         (d)   Estimates of volume of any type of vehicular traffic to, from or
within the development, i.e. scheduled deliveries or shipments.
(Ord. 818, passed 11-13-95)
   (L)   Low volume occasional uses.
      (1)   As an alternative to hard surfacing of parking and loading areas
required under division (A) above and Table 2, high density crushed rock may be
used to surface areas of low volume occasional use.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (L), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         (a)   LOW VOLUME OCCASIONAL USE. An area which is used infrequently
and in such a manner as to minimize dust and surface maintenance problems.
"Infrequently" would require that the area:
            1.   Generate no more than five tractor-trailer trips per week; and
            2.   Generate no more than 20 automobile trips per week, or in the
case of a mini storage facility no more than two automobile trips per week per
storage unit; and
            3.   The area is not typically used by pedestrians.
         (b)   HIGH DENSITY CRUSHED ROCK. A type of material which will not
generate quantities of fugitive dust and polluted runoff in excess of that
typically found to be generated by conventional hard surfacing; and of which
not more than 3% of the material by weight shall pass through a standard number
200 sieve. Examples of acceptable materials would include:
            1.   Crushed stone such as crushed granite, quartzite or other
durable natural stone excluding sandstone, shale and limestone;
            2.   Crushed bituminous but not crushed concrete pavement; and
            3.   Washed natural gravel substantially free of material less than
1/8-inch in diameter.
      (3)   Any required parking or loading area which utilizes high density
crushed rock under the terms of this section shall be maintained in such a way
as to provide safe, all weather access to such parking or loading area.
      (4)   Upon any change in use from a low volume occasional use to another
use, hard surfaced parking shall be installed within one year of the change in
use as required in division (A) above, Table 2 and Table 7.
(Ord. 847, passed 10-27-97; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-12-16; Am. Ord. 1203,
passed 4-22-24) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.043 APPEARANCE AND BUFFERING.
   (A)   Purpose. In the enforcement of this title, consideration shall be
given to the character of intended uses and that of the surrounding area. All
development shall harmonize with its surroundings. Development shall not offend
the educated observer's aesthetic sense of design, form, proportion, color,
material, position or other development feature. ('69 Code, § 7-12.01)
   (B)   Screening. Whenever development cannot be placed in harmony with its
surroundings adequate screening and distance buffering shall be provided to
make it so. Screening shall be an obscuring wall or fence or other method
approved by the Administrator. Table 3, entitled Required Fences, indicates
those conditions which are considered inherently disharmonious and adequate
screening shall be provided at the side and rear of the parcel between
conflicting areas. ('69 Code, § 7-12.02)
   (C)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   All walls and fences hereafter erected shall be durable, weather
resistant, rust proof and easily maintained. Masonry walls shall be erected on
foundations which are a minimum of 42 inches below grade. All fences shall be
constructed of stone, brick, wood, wrought iron, PVC, vinyl, aluminum, plastic
lumber or chain link materials. Snow fencing and chicken wiring is prohibited.
Any material not specified in this section may be permissible through the
issuance of a conditional use permit. All walls and fences shall be kept in
good condition, plumb and true without damage.
      (2)   All required walls and fences shall have no openings except those
approved by the Administrator.
      (3)   No fence in a residential area shall exceed eight feet six inches
in height with rear and side yards nor five feet within front yards.
      (4)   Exception from maximum height of fences in the front yard for
institutional and recreational uses in residential districts.
         (a)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this division is
to provide a limited exception for fences to exceed the maximum height in the
front yard in residential districts, to accommodate those institutional and
recreational uses which customarily need such fences to conduct their
operations.
         (b)   Applicability. The provisions of this division shall apply to
institutional uses such as schools, churches, health care facilities, nursing
homes, licensed group child care facilities and similar uses, but shall not
apply to family or in-home child care where such care is provided in a way
which is incidental to the building's primary use as a residence. The
provisions of this division shall also apply to recreational uses such as
parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, swimming pools and similar uses.
         (c)   Conditional use. Fences which are located in the required front
yard in residential districts and which exceed the maximum height as
established in Subd. 3 may be allowed as a conditional use, provided such
fences do not exceed eight feet six inches in height, are not sight obscuring,
and are incidental to an institutional use or recreational use. In such cases a
conditional use permit shall be required for such fences to exceed the maximum
height in the front yard as established in division (C)(3) above of this
section.
('69 Code, § 7-12.03) (Am. Ord. 856, passed 3-9-98; Am. Ord. 1028, passed 7-13-
09)
   (D)   Greenbelts.
      (1)   Obscuring greenbelts may be substituted for obscuring walls or
fences when approved in detail by the Administrator.
      (2)   Whenever a buffer or greenbelt approved as an obscuring greenbelt
under division (D)(1) above is required, it shall be planted within six months
from the date of issuance of a certificate of occupancy and shall thereafter be
maintained in healthy condition so as to screen abutting properties.
      (3)   Plant materials shall provide an evergreen screen and shall be
planted so as to not extend over the property line from ground level to eight
feet in height and in no case shall they be planted closer than four feet from
the fence or property line. Multiple rows of deciduous and evergreen trees and
shrubs are desirable.
      (4)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum of two inches in diameter and
shrub material shall be a minimum of 2½ feet in height when planted.
('69 Code, § 7-12.04)
   (E)   Distance buffering. Certain uses and activities are inherently
incompatible with other uses and activities and are hereby separated so as to
reduce conflict and to maintain amenity as indicated on the Table 4, entitled
Required Distance Buffering. ('69 Code, § 7-12.05)
   (F)   Landscaping. Required front yards for all residential districts shall
consist of a green space area of not less than 60%. A green space area shall be
defined as an area designated for decorative landscaping and/or lawns. Green
space shall not include surfaces designed for vehicular and pedestrian movement
or other impervious surfaces. All green space areas shall be properly
maintained and in well-kept condition. ('69 Code, § 7-12.06)
   (G)   Required trash areas. Except in the case of single family uses, all
uses that provide trash or garbage collection areas shall enclose these areas
on at least three sides by opaque screening at least six feet in height. The
open side of the trash or garbage collection area shall not face any street, or
the front yard of any abutting property. ('69 Code, § 7-12.07)
   (H)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The Administrator may temporarily waive screening requirements for
an initial period not to exceed 12 months. Granting of subsequent waivers for
periods of no more than one year shall be permitted.
      (2)   In the event that terrain or other natural features are such that
the erection of obscuring greenbelts, walls or fences will not serve the
intended purpose, as determined by the Administrator, then no such fences, wall
or green belt shall be required.
      (3)   The Administrator shall be considered an educated observer.
('69 Code, § 7-12.08)
   (I)   Nonconforming uses. The requirements stated in this section shall be
subject to the Nonconforming Lots, Uses and Structures provisions stated in §§
155.200 through
155.205. ('69 Code, § 7-12.09)
(Am. Ord. 889, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 1067, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord. 1102,
passed 12-12-16) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.044 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   It is the intent of this title that no land or building in any district
shall be used or occupied in any manner so as to create any hazard or otherwise
objectionable element which will adversely affect the surrounding area or
adjoining premises. ('69 Code, § 7-13)
   (A)   Performance standards regulations. The following provisions, standards
and specifications shall apply:
      (1)   Noise. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable due
to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or intensity as measured at the
property line of the tract on which the operation is located.
      (2)   Glare. Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as from floodlights
or high temperature processes, and as differentiated from general illumination,
shall not be visible at any property line.
      (3)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining properties.
      (4)   Vibration. Vibration shall not be discernible at any property line
to the human sense of feeling for three minutes or more duration in any one
hour.
      (5)   Smoke. Measurements shall be at the point of emission. The
Ringelman Smoke Chart published by the United States Bureau of Mines shall be
used for the measurement of smoke. Smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 2
on said chart may be emitted for periods not longer than four minutes in any 30
minutes. These provisions, applicable to visible grey smoke, shall also apply
to visible smoke of a different color, but with an equivalent apparent opacity.
      (6)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point
in concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive.
      (7)   Fumes or gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive.
      (8)   Hazard. Every operation shall be carried on with reasonable
precautions against fire and explosion hazards.
      (9)   Water supply. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and water supply source shall be in accordance with city standards
and regulations.
      (10) Waste. All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and
disposed of in such manner as to comply with city standards and requirements.
      (11) State standards. The state pollution control standards shall take
precedence over the above regulations except where city standards are higher.
('69 Code, § 7-13.01)
   (B)   Enforcement provisions applicable. Even though compliance with
performance standards procedure in obtaining a development permit is not
required for a particular use initial and continued compliance with performance
standards is required of every use, and provisions for enforcement of continued
compliance with performance standards shall be invoked by the Administrator
against any use, if there are reasonable grounds to believe that performance
standards are being violated by such use. ('69 Code, § 7-13.02)
   (C)   Enforcement procedure. In order to insure compliance with the
performance standards set forth above, the Council may require the owner or
operator of any permitted use to have made such investigations and/or tests as
may be required to show adherence to the performance standards. Such
investigation and/or tests as are required to be made shall be carried out by
an independent testing organization as may be selected by the city. The costs
incurred in such investigation or testing shall be ordered by the owner or
operator and shared equally by the owner or operator and the city unless the
investigation and tests disclose noncompliance with the performance standards;
in which situation, the entire investigation or testing cost shall be paid by
the owner or operator. ('69 Code, § 7-13.03)
Penalty, see § 155.999
USES
§ 155.055 PERMITTED USES.
   Table No. 5 indicates those use groups which are permitted uses and allowed
as general development (see §§ 155.160 through 155.171). The use groups
permitted within a district are marked with a "P."
('69 Code, § 7-15.01)
§ 155.056 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Table No. 5 Schedule of Use Regulations indicates those use groups
which are allowed as special development for a conditional use (see §§ 155.185
through 155.189). The use groups allowed as conditional uses within a district
are marked with an "S."
   (B)   In the Flood Hazard District, the Commissioner of Natural Resources
must receive a copy of an application for conditional use sufficiently in
advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least ten days notice of the
hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a conditional use in a Flood Hazard
District shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten
days of such action.
   (C)   In the Shoreland District, the Commissioner of Natural Resources must
receive a copy of a hearing notice for a conditional use at least ten days
prior to the hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a conditional use in the
Shoreland District shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of Natural Resources
within ten days of such action.
('69 Code, § 7-15.02)
§ 155.057 USE GROUPS.
   Uses are shown on the Table of Use Groups (following Table 5 in Appendix E).
   (A)   Additional uses. Uses, other than those specifically mentioned in the
title as permitted or conditional uses in each of the districts, may also be
allowed therein, provided that, in the judgement of the Council, acting upon
recommendation of the Commission, as evidenced by resolution of record, such
other uses are of similar character to those mentioned and will have no adverse
influence or no more adverse influence on adjacent properties or the
Commission, may also specifically prohibit a use not specifically identified in
this title from any district by resolution.
   (B)   Harmonious uses required. The use groups indicated similar or
harmonious uses and shall serve as a guide to whether specific uses not listed
should be permitted or prohibited within a use group and thus be allowed within
a district.
('69 Code, § 7-15.03)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.058 TRANSITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall be considered conditional uses where zoning
districts adjoin:
   (A)   Residential use in a residential district. In any residential
district, a transitional use may be permitted as a conditional use on the
parcel where the side lot adjoins directly, or is across an alley from, a less
restrictive residential district. Any transitional use shall be a use listed as
a permitted or conditional use in the less restrictive district, and shall meet
the requirements of either district as the Commission shall elect. (Note: This
division shall not apply to mobile homes, or to any business uses, except
offices.)
   (B)   Commercial use in a residential district.
      (1)   In any residential district a transitional use may be permitted as
a conditional use on the parcel where the side lot adjoins directly, or would
adjoin except for the presence of an alley, a B-1, B-2, B-3 or B-4 District.
      (2)   In cases where there is an existing building which is being used or
has been used for commercial purposes within the previous five years from the
date of application, a transitional use may also be permitted as a conditional
use on the parcel where the lot would adjoin a B-1, B-2, B-3 or B-4 District
except for the presence of a street. In such cases no expansion of the
commercial building shall be permitted, and if the building is deteriorated,
damaged or destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost exclusive of foundations, then such conditional use shall not
be approved, and if such conditional use has previously been approved for such
property, then it shall automatically expire.
      (3)   Any transitional use shall be a use listed as a permitted or
conditional use in the B District adjoined, and shall meet the requirements of
either district, as the Commission shall elect.
   (C)   Industrial use in a business district. In any business district a
transitional use may be permitted as a conditional use on the parcel where the
side lot adjoins directly, or is located across the alley from,
an M-1 or M-2 District. Any transitional use shall be a use listed as a
permitted or conditional use in the M District adjoined, and shall meet the
requirements of either district as the Commission shall decide.
   (D)   Commercial use in a commercial district. In any business district, a
transitional use may be permitted as a conditional use on the parcel where the
side lot adjoins, or is located directly across the alley from a less
restrictive business district. Any transitional use shall be a use listed as a
permitted or conditional use in the adjoining district and it shall meet the
requirements of either district as the Commission shall elect.
('69 Code, § 7-15.04) (Am. Ord. 861, passed 4-27-98)
§ 155.059 ACCESSORY USES.
   Except as otherwise provided below, accessory uses shall be permitted in
each district where they are incidental to the uses therein.
   (A)   Accessory uses in residential districts shall be permitted according
to the terms of § 155.075, and according to the terms of division (B) below of
this section.
   (B)   The following accessory uses shall not be allowed unless they comply
with the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools may not be located closer than ten
feet to any property line and shall be walled or fenced to a height of four
feet to prevent uncontrolled access by children from the street or from
adjoining properties. A swimming pool shall be defined as any structure
intended for swimming, recreational bathing or wading which contains or which
is designed to contain water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground,
above-ground and on-ground pools; indoor pools; hot tubs or spas without
operable and securable safety covers; and fixed-in-place wading pools. (Ord.
611, eff. 8-27-79)
      (2)   Temporary uses. Buildings, construction trailer, equipment and
materials used in conjunction with construction work shall be removed upon
completion of said construction work and issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
      (3)   Amateur radio towers. Amateur radio towers shall comply with the
same setback requirements of the principal structure in the district it is
located in and not exceed a height of 50 feet.
      (4)   Garage sales. Garage sales may be held on residential property by
the owner or resident of that property for no more than three consecutive days,
on four separate occasions per calendar year.
('69 Code, § 7-15.05) (Am. Ord. 888, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 1023, passed 2-
9-09)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.060 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this title, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with other requirements governing new
construction in such district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, percentage of lot coverage, dimensions of yards and other open
spaces, and off-street parking. The aforesaid requirements with respect to lot
coverage, yards and other open spaces, shall not apply if:
   (A)   No major exterior structural changes are made,
   (B)   Any shortage as to coverage, yards and open spaces will not be more
than 10% of the required dimensions or areas, and
   (C)   The conversion will result in a lot area per dwelling unit not more
than 20% less than the requirement for new buildings in the district.
('69 Code, § 7-15.06)
Penalty, see § 155.999
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
§ 155.070 GENERAL PURPOSES.
   (A)   To preserve existing living qualities of residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   To ensure future high quality amenity including, but limited to the
provision of adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to the
property.
   (C)   To increase convenience and comfort by providing usable open space and
recreation space on the same lot as the housing units they serve.
   (D)   To prevent additions or alterations of structures which would damage
the character or desirability of existing residential areas.
   (E)   To protect residential areas, to the extent possible and appropriate
in each area, against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic.
('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd. 1)
§ 155.071 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS DESIGNATED.
   The following are residential districts:
   (A)   R-1 One Family Detached. This district is intended to preserve, create
and enhance areas for single family detached dwellings.
   (B)   R-2 One Family, Low Density District (0 to 3 dwelling units per acre).
This district in intended to preserve, create and enhance areas for single
family dwellings; both detached and attached (townhouses).
   (C)   R-3 Low Density Preservation Residential District. This district is
intended to encourage the remodeling and enhancement of the older residential
sections of the community without appreciably increasing density or reducing
open space.
   (D)   R-4 Medium Density Residential District. This district is intended to
encourage the gradual succession of land use in the older areas of the
community and to encourage redevelopment of blighted or underutilized parcels.
   (E)   R-5 Multi-Family, Medium and High Density District (4 to 14 d.u./acre)
This district is intended to create, preserve and enhance areas for multi-
family use at high densities for families and singles. It is typically
appropriate only in areas of good accessibility to thoroughfares, open space,
public transportation, public community center, libraries and major shopping
centers.
   (F)   R-6 Mobile Home District. This district is intended to create,
preserve and enhance areas for mobile homes. See §§ 155.120 through 155.126 of
this chapter.
   (G)   R-7 One Family, Incremental Growth. This district is intended to
create areas for single family detached dwellings of small floor area whenever
adequate provisions for expansions are provided.
   (H)   R-8 One Family, Low Density Preservation District. This district is
intended to encourage the remodeling and enhancement of the older residential
sections of the community.
('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd. 2) (Am. Ord. 1175, passed 9-13-21)
§ 155.072 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Uses. Table 5 designates the only uses permitted in the various
residential districts except for §
155.072(F). To determine the districts where a use is permitted, find the use
in the first column, the use is permitted in those districts directly above
each mark in the line of the use. If a mark is a “P,” the use is permitted; if
the mark is an “S,” the use is a conditional use; if marked an “A,” the use is
an accessory use; and if marked “-” the use is not permitted in the district.
   (B)   Density. Table 1 designates the minimum lot size in area in square
feet (or acres when indicated) and width in feet, the minimum yard setback for
front, rear and side yards in feet, the clear passage to be maintained along a
side yard in feet, the maximum height in feet and stories, the maximum floor
area ratio, and the minimum floor area in square feet required of dwelling
units. To determine the requirement for each district, find the category in the
first column, the requirement for the category is found on the line directly
below the designated district.
   (C)   Parking. Table 2 designates the minimum required parking and loading
spaces by type of use.
   (D)   Location of certain nonresidential uses.
      (1)   Any commercial use except mortuaries and commercial communication
towers, located in a residential district shall be in a building devoted
primarily to a residential use and the entrance to the nonresidential use shall
be from within the building.
      (2)   Parking lots to be located within a residential district shall be
approved only after review of its location and features by the Administrator.
The Administrator may make conditions for approval of use.
   (E)   Variable setback regulations. Notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter to the contrary, in order to provide maximum flexibility to owners of
property on which construction has not occurred, the owner may elect to adopt a
variable setback plan. Under the plan the setback may be reduced to not less
than 25 feet, providing the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The minimum average setback of all structures on the same side of
the street in a single block shall be at least 30 feet.
      (2)   The maximum difference in setback on two contiguous lots shall be
ten feet.
      (3)   No more than two contiguous lots shall have the same front yard
setback.
      (4)   Any lot in a proposed development that is adjacent to a previously
developed lot, shall use the standard minimum front yard setback.
      (5)   This option shall apply only to a minimum of four or more
contiguous lots on the same side of the street in a single block.
      (6)   The owner shall adopt the variable plan by filing with the Zoning
Administrator a map of the lots affected. The map shall show in sufficient
detail the setback selected for each such lot. The owner shall include in any
instrument conveying title to such a lot a stipulation of the designated
setback for such lot. Prior to the conveyance of the first lot included in such
plan, the owner may file with the Zoning Administrator an amended plan revising
the setbacks; provided, however, that the amended plan meets all of the
requirements of this section. After the sale of the first lot included in such
plan, no changes may be made unless agreed to by at least 75% of the owners of
lots included in the plan provided that the change meets all of the
requirements of this section. Such changes shall be made in the form of an
amended plan filed with the Zoning Administrator and signed by the required
number of owners.
   (F)   Commercial communication towers are not permitted in residential
districts unless the principal land use is a school, hospital or other
institutional use. Any commercial communication towers located on property used
primarily for a school, hospital or other institutional use must be utilized
solely in support of the operations of the primary land use. Any commercial
tower accessory to a school, hospital or other institutional use over 50 feet
in height requires a conditional use permit in accordance with §
155.186.
('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd. 3) (Ord. 648, eff. 4-13-82; Am. Ord. 1159, passed
3-23-20) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.073 MULTI-FAMILY SPECIAL REVIEW.
   No development permit shall be issued for a multi-family use until the
Administrator has made a determination that:
   (A)   Adequate facilities have been made for on-site private recreation use
for all ages to occupy the building and that
   (B)   Trash storage will not adversely affect the occupants enjoyment of the
dwelling units, nor occupants of surrounding uses and that
   (C)   Parking areas are separated physically from designated recreation
areas and have minimum impact on surrounding uses and that
   (D)   Hard surfacing of alleys is planned if access to required parking is
via the alley.
('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd. 4)
§ 155.074 R-7 SPECIAL REVIEW.
   No development permit for a residential use in the R-7 District shall be
issued until the Administrator has made a determination that:
   (A)   A plan for the future expansion of a principal structure exists and is
on file with the Administrator, and
   (B)   That the ultimate development of the site can be made to include three
bedrooms, a car garage and a screened porch, all in desirable locations and
without violation of the provisions of this title. ('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd.
5)
§ 155.075 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN R DISTRICTS.
   Except as provided in § 155.059, accessory buildings shall be located in
such a way as to meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Corner lots. In any R district, where a corner lot adjoins in the rear
of a lot fronting on the side street and located in an R district, no part of
an accessory building on such corner lot shall be nearer a side street lot line
than the least depth of the front yard required along such side street for a
dwelling on such adjoining lot. In no case shall any part of such accessory
building be nearer to the side street lot line than the least width of the side
year required for the principal building to which it is accessory.
   (B)   Front setback. No accessory use or structure in any R district shall
be permitted nearer to any front lot line than the minimum required front yard
of the subject parcel or parcels abutting the sideyards.
   (C)   Yard requirements. An accessory building shall be so located as to
meet all yard and court requirements for a principal building of the same
height and other dimensions as said accessory building except as follows:
      (1)   As provided in § 155.059.
      (2)   In any R district, accessory buildings shall be at least three feet
from any side or rear lot line, provided said building is set back from the
front lot line the minimum required front yard of the subject parcel, plus 25
feet.
   (D)   Without main building. In any R district no accessory building or
structure shall be erected or constructed prior to the erection or construction
of the principal or main building except for a garage on an abutting lot to the
lot containing the principal building.
   (E)   Height. The side wall height of accessory buildings in R districts
shall not exceed ten feet in height, and the overall height of said accessory
buildings in R districts shall not exceed 20 feet. The side wall height shall
be defined as the vertical dimension measured from the top of the ground floor
to the top of the side wall plate of the accessory building. The overall height
shall be defined as the vertical dimension measured from the average elevation
of the finished lot grade at the front of the accessory building to the top
highest point on the building.
   (F)   Location. An accessory building shall be located in the buildable lot
area or required rear yard. When located in the required rear yard, it shall
not occupy more than 35% of such required rear yard.
   (G)   Distance. No accessory building shall be constructed and/or located
within six feet of the principal building.
   (H)   Square footage. In any residential district, the cumulative square
footage of accessory structures on a lot shall be a maximum of 1,400 square
feet.
('69 Code, § 7-16.01, Subd. 6) (Am. Ord. 706, passed 6-9-86; Am. Ord. 789,
passed 5-10-93; Am. Ord. 845, passed 8-11-97; Am. Ord. 854, passed 1-12-98; Am.
Ord. 1010, passed 2-12-08)
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.085 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Uses. Table 5 designates the only uses permitted in the various
commercial and industrial districts. To determine the districts where a use is
permitted:
      (1)   Find the use in the first column.
      (2)   The use is permitted in those districts directly above each mark in
the line of the use. If a mark is a "P," the use is permitted; if the mark is
an "S," the use is a conditional use, if marked an "A," the use is an accessory
use; and if marked "-," the use is not permitted in the district.
   (B)   Density. Table 1 designates the minimum lot size in area in square
feet (or acres when indicated) and width in feet, the minimum yard setback for
front, rear and side yards in feet, the clear passage to be maintained along a
side yard in feet, the maximum height in feet and stories, the maximum floor
area ratio, and the minimum floor area in square feet required of dwelling
units. To determine the requirement for each district:
      (1)   Find the category in the first column.
      (2)   The requirement for the category is found on the line directly
below the designated district.
   (C)   Parking. Table 2 designates the minimum required parking and loading
spaces by type of use.
   (D)   Buffer to residential use. Any commercial or industrial structure
adjoining a residential district on a side yard shall have a front yard and
side yard setback no less than 20 feet for a front yard and ten feet for a side
yard or not less than ¾ the depth of the same kind of existing residential
yard, whichever is greater. Such yards shall be landscaped and not used for
parking nor for drives on the side abutting the residential use. No sign
erected on the commercial property shall reflect light onto the residential
structure nor shall such sign be placed within 50 feet of the residential
property line. No drive-in restaurant shall be placed on a parcel abutting a
residential use on a side lot line.
   (E)   Performance standards. Uses shall conform at all times to the
standards listed in § 155.044.
   (F)   Automobile dealerships.
      (1)   All final sales transactions involving automobile dealerships, new
and used, must be concluded within an enclosed structure located upon a
dealership lot. The outdoor display of vehicles is permitted only on such lots
which have been improved by enclosed structures located upon said lots. It is
intended that, upon final passage and publication, this division (F) apply to
all automobile dealerships and that non-conforming uses will not be allowed.
      (2)   Sales activities shall not be prevented upon any dealership lot not
in compliance with this section which either abuts a dealership lot which is in
compliance or would abut a dealership lot in compliance except for the
existence of a street or alley.
   (G)   All outdoor seating areas are subject to the requirements below:
      (1)   All outdoor seating areas shall comply with the City Code
requirements of §
92.56.
      (2)   The outdoor seating area shall be designated by screening, fences,
planters, markings or paint.
      (3)   The business owner shall be responsible to ensure that the service
area is properly maintained and litter-free.
      (4)   Outdoor lighting for the service area shall comply with City Code
requirements §
155.044(A)(3).
      (5)   All outdoor seating areas shall conform to accessibility standards.
      (6)   No additional parking is required for 30 outdoor seats or less. Any
additional seating over 30 seats shall provide required parking based on the
parking requirements for restaurants located in City Code
Chapter 155 Appendix B.
      (7)   Any outdoor service areas where alcohol is permitted shall comply
with the City Code
Chapter 111.
('69 Code, § 7-16.02, Subd. 1) (Ord. 973, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 1157, passed
3-9-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.086 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purposes.
      (1)   To group compatible business uses which will tend to draw trade
that is mutually interchangeable and so promote business prosperity and public
convenience.
      (2)   To encourage master planning and development of business districts
with adequate parking and loading.
   (B)   Commercial districts designated. The following districts are
commercial districts:
      (1)   Neighborhood Business District (B-1).
         (a)   Purpose. This district is intended to permit selected businesses
in areas adjacent to residential neighborhoods where analysis of the population
demonstrates that such facilities are required and desirable.
         (b)   Location. After the date of adoption of this title, no new B-
1 districts shall be located within 2,000 feet of another B-1 or B-2, or B-
4 district.
      (2)   Central Business District (B-2).
         (a)   Purpose. This district is intended to preserve and enhance the
Central Business District as the prime center for office and government
employment, shopping and cultural activities.
         (b)   Number. Only one B-2 District shall be permitted.
      (3)   General Business District (B-3).
         (a)   This district provides allocation for uses that are appropriate
to thoroughfare locations, are largely dependent on thoroughfare traffic and
are not suitable within other business districts.
         (b)   This district is created in recognition of the existence of
substantial areas presently committed to a form of development which is
undesirable in the following respects:
            1.   Mixed uses of major type
            2.   Mixed uses of a single type (commercial) which do not
encourage the interchange of customers.
            3.   Access feeds onto a major city arterial directly rather than
via a commercial distribution frontage road.
         (c)   It is not the intent to create additional districts of this
type, nor to enlarge the limits of such districts; however, minor adjustments
would be allowed.
         (d)   Reduced setbacks for commercial structures. In a B-3 zoning
district, the minimum setback for all buildings shall be 50 feet from the
right-of-way with the following exceptions:
            1.   The setback shall be 30 feet when a property fronts on a
service road.
            2.   The setback may be reduced to 25 feet, provided:
               a.   The parking area for the use is located behind the front
building line of the structure, and
               b.   The future thoroughfare plan does not indicate a need for
additional right-of-way acquisition in front of the proposed building.
      (4)   Shopping Centers District (B-4).
         (a)   Purpose. This district is intended to provide for preplanned
shopping centers.
         (b)   Detailed plan required. Uses within this district are to be
arranged according to a detailed master plan prepared by the developer and
after approval by the Commission. Plan preparation shall conform to §
155.189.
('69 Code, § 7-16.02, Subd. 2) (Ord. 622, eff. 7-14-80; Ord. 623, eff. 8-11-80;
Am. Ord. 1014, passed 7-14-08; Am. Ord. 1015, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 1181,
passed 6-13-22)
§ 155.087 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General purpose.
      (1)   To provide suitable space and locations for light and heavy
manufacturing, processing, major repair, salvage and maintenance, bulk storage,
warehousing, wholesaling, distribution operations, energy generation and waste
disposal.
      (2)   To provide space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to rail and highways, so that the movement of raw materials,
finished products and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a
minimum of danger to life and property.
      (3)   To realize proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious activities and encourage activities that will not affect lives of
people living and working nearby.
      (4)   To promote stability of manufacturing uses.
      (5)   To provide room for industrial expansion in suitable locations so
that employment opportunities will be preserved.
   (B)   The following are Industrial Districts:
      (1)   Light Manufacturing District (M-1).
         (a)   Purpose. This district provides a location for non-nuisance type
manufacturing uses which may be located reasonably close to residential areas.
         (b)   Enclosure. All activities shall be conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building, except for
            1.   Parking and loading
            2.   The display of products after receiving a conditional use
permit.
         (c)   Night operation. No night operation (including loading) shall be
conducted within 200 feet of a residence district.
         (d)   Height. No structure within 200 feet of any residence district
shall exceed 40 feet in height.
      (2)   General Manufacturing District (M-2).
         (a)   Purpose. This district provides space for manufacturing and
industrial operations which are potentially incompatible with most other uses,
which are distant from residential areas and are located on major truck routes
and rail lines.
         (b)   Enclosure. All open storage shall be screened from view from a
residential area or street.
('69 Code, § 7-16.02, Subd. 3)
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.100 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Uses. Table 5 designates the only uses permitted in the various
special districts. To determine the districts where a use is permitted:
      (1)   Find the use in the first column
      (2)   The use is permitted in those districts directly above each mark in
the line of the use. If a mark is a "P," the use is permitted; if the mark is
an "S" the use is a conditional use; if marked an "A," the use is an accessory
use; and if marked "-," the use is not permitted in the district.
   (B)   Density. Table 1 designates the minimum lot size in area in square
feet or acres, width in feet, the minimum yard setback for front, rear and side
yards in feet, the clear passage to be maintained along a side yard in feet,
the maximum height in feet and stories, the maximum floor area ratio, and the
minimum floor area in square feet required of dwelling units. To determine the
requirement for each district,
      (1)   Find the category in the first column
      (2)   The requirement for the category is found on the line directly
below the designated district.
   (C)   Parking. Table 2 designates the minimum required parking and loading
spaces by type of use.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 1)
§ 155.101 MAJOR INSTITUTION DISTRICT (I).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to create, preserve and enhance
areas devoted primarily to educational, medical and other major institutional
use so that their functions and auxiliary uses will not be encroached upon by
uses and activities which are detrimental to their primary purposes.
   (B)   Detailed plan required. Uses within this district are to be arranged
according to a detailed master plan prepared by the major institution located
within the district and after approval by the Commission. Plan preparation
shall conform to § 155.189.
   (C)   Existing uses. Existing uses in the district, other than those
conforming to the approved plan, shall be nonconforming and subject to the
provisions of §§ 155.200 through 155.205, except said uses may be allowed to
expand only when:
      (1)   A conditional use permit is obtained from the Commission
      (2)   The expansion will not interfere with the long term expansion plans
of the major institution, and
      (3)   The administrator of the institution or the Chairman of the
Commission certifies that the subject parcel is not included in any program of
development for a period of ten years following the request of the conditional
use permit.
   (D)   All uses. The permitted and conditional uses shown on the table
Schedule of Use Regulations shall be allowed within the district only when they
are so identified on the plan required under this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 A.)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.102 FLOOD HAZARD DISTRICT (F).
   (A)   This district limits development in areas subject to flood so persons
and property can be protected and to avoid unnecessary public expenditures for
flood protection and emergency aid.
   (B)   Please see Chapter 152.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 B.)
§ 155.103 TRANSITION ZONE DISTRICT (TZ).
   (A)   Purpose. The Transition Zone District is established primarily for
those annexed unplatted areas within the city that have not been zoned for
development and are undergoing a transition from, in most cases, agricultural
to urban uses. It is the expressed intent of this district to allow only crop
farming or similar agricultural uses in order to reduce potential land use
conflicts as urban development occurs in the Transition Zone District. Certain
lands in the district may be released for compact and orderly urban
development, according to the comprehensive Development Guide Plan, pending
proper timing and providing for the economical provision of city services. As
these criteria take place a more conventional urban zoning district will
replace the Transitional Zone District.
   (B)   Plants. All non-farm structures shall be sited on a separately
surveyed and described parcel.
   (C)   Utilities. All non-farm uses hereafter erected shall be connected to
city water and sewer systems.
   (D)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses will be permitted only when
their:
      (1)   Locations are compatible with anticipated long range plans of the
city, and
      (2)   The use is compatible for the use of the area as indicated on the
long range development plan for the surrounding areas submitted by the
developer and approved by the Commission. Strip development along roads and
streets will be discouraged.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 C.) (Am. Ord. 820, passed 3-25-96)
§ 155.104 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district preserves the natural features and environments of the
shorelands which are unique community assets so they will be protected from
adverse urban development activities.
   (B)   See §§ 155.140 through 155.148.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 D.)
§ 155.105 HERITAGE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Declaration of public policy. The City Council declares that the
preservation, protection, perpetuation and use of areas, places, buildings,
structures, lands, districts and other objects having a special historical,
community or aesthetic interest or value are a public necessity and is required
in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare of the City of
Worthington.

   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to officially designate
Heritage Preservation Sites to:

      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the City of Worthington by preserving
properties which reflect elements of the City's cultural, social, economic,
political, visual or architectural history;

      (2)   Protect and enhance the City of Worthington's appeal and attraction
to residents, visitors and tourists;

      (3)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and interest
of the City of Worthington;

      (4)   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments of the
past; and

      (5)   Promote the preservation and continued use of historic properties
for the education and general welfare of the people of the City of Worthington.

   (C)   Heritage Preservation Commission.  

      (1)   Members. The City of Worthington Heritage Preservation Commission
(hereinafter, the "Commission") shall consist of seven voting members to be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Chairperson of the City of Worthington Planning Commission and the
President of the Nobles County Historical Society or their designees shall be
ex-officio non-voting members of the Commission. Any member appointed to serve
on the Commission shall be a resident of Worthington and shall have
demonstrated interest and/or expertise in historic preservation. If available
in the community and willing to serve, at least two members of the Commission
shall be preservation-related professionals, including the professions of
history, architecture, architectural history, archaeology, planning, real
estate, design, building trades, landscape architecture or law. One member of
the Commission must be a designated representative of the Nobles County
Historical Society, if available, pursuant to M.S. § 471.193 Subdivision 5.

      (2)   Term. The Mayor and City Council shall initially appoint two
members to serve a term of one year, two members to serve a term of two years,
and three members to serve a term of three years. Terms of office shall expire
on the first day of April in the year following their last full year of
appointment. All subsequent appointments shall be for a term of three years.
Members may be reappointed for consecutive terms. In the event of a vacancy,
the vacancy for the unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner as the
appointment itself. Members shall serve without compensation and, if a
successor has not been appointed by the end of their term, shall continue to
hold office until their successors have been appointed.

      (3)   Powers and duties of the Commission.

         (a)   The Commission may conduct studies for the identification and
designation of historic buildings and/or sites. The Commission shall maintain
records of all studies for public use.

         (b)   The Commission shall recommend structures, interiors, lands,
spaces or districts to be designated for heritage preservation within the city.

         (c)   The Commission may solicit gifts and contributions to behalf of
the city and to assist in obtaining funds to be given to the city for the
purpose of heritage preservation.

         (d)   The Commission shall exercise control and maintenance over
Heritage Preservation buildings and/or sites officially registered and thereby
protected.

         (e)   The Commission may cause to be prepared and erected suitable
plaques, identifying Heritage Preservation buildings and/or sites.

         (f)   The Commission shall ensure an update list of all areas, places,
buildings, structures, land, districts or other object which has been given
Heritage Preservation designation. The Commission shall also prepare and
compile an updated catalogue of all known publications, articles, books,
pamphlets, policies or other materials having a direct bearing on the Heritage
Preservation in the City of Worthington. All of this material shall be made
reasonably available for public use.

   (D)   Designation of Heritage Preservation Sites.

      (1)   Designation criteria. The following criteria shall be utilized to
determine whether a building and/or site is worthy of designation as a Heritage
Preservation Site. Any building and/or site to be considered for designation as
a Heritage Preservation Site must meet one of the following criteria.

         (a)   Exemplify or reflect the broad cultural, political, economic or
social history of the City of Worthington, Nobles County, State of Minnesota,
or the United States;

         (b)   Be identified as a site of a significant historic event;

         (c)   Be identified with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the City of Worthington;

         (d)   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of an architectural
style, period, form or treatment;

         (e)   Identifies work of an architectural or master builder whose
individual work has influenced the development of the City of Worthington;

         (f)   Represents the notable work of a master builder, designer,
landscape architect, engineer or architect.

      (2)   Nomination. Nomination of a building and/or site to be considered
for designation as a Heritage Preservation Site shall be submitted to the
Manager of Planning and Economic Development. The nomination shall be
accompanied with all required supporting information. A nomination may be made
by any of the following:

         (a)   A member of the Heritage Preservation Commission.

         (b)   A member of the City Council.

         (c)   The Mayor.

         (d)   The Director of Community/Economic Development.

         (e)   Any person with a legal or equitable interest in the subject
property.

      (3)   Hearings. Prior to the Commission recommending to the City Council
any area, place, structure, land, district or other object for Heritage
Preservation designation, the Commission shall hold a public hearing and seek
recommendations of all concerned citizens. Prior to such hearing, the
Commission shall cause to be published in the city's official newspaper a
notice of the hearing at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing, and
notice of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten days before the day of the
hearing to all owners of record of the property or properties proposed for
Heritage Preservation designation and to all owners of property situated within
350 feet of the building or site in question.

      (4)   Design guidelines. For each Heritage Preservation Site recommended
to the City Council, a design guideline for rehabilitation and preservation
shall be created. The United States Secretary of the Interior's Standards for
Rehabilitation shall be among the standards used to create such guidelines.

      (5)   Findings and recommendations. The Commission shall determine if a
proposed building and/or site is eligible for Heritage Preservation designation
through the use of the designation criteria identified in division (D)(1) of
this section. In accordance with M.S. § 471.193, the Commission shall send to
the Minnesota Historical Society/State Historic Preservation Office all
information regarding the building and/or site under consideration for
designation. The Commission may make modifications concerning the proposed
designation as it deems necessary in consideration of the comments of the
Minnesota Historical Society/Sate Historic Preservation Office.

      (6)   Planning Commission review. Upon recommendation for Heritage
Preservation designation, the Commission shall submit all documentation related
to the building and/or site under consideration to the City of Worthington
Planning Commission. The Commission shall request the Planning Commission to
comment on the proposed designation relative to the Zoning Ordinance and
Comprehensive Plan of the City of Worthington and any other valid city planning
considerations relevant to the proposed designation. The Planning Commission's
comments shall become part of the official record concerning the proposed
designation and shall be submitted by the Commission along with its
recommendation to the City Council. The Commission may make such modifications
concerning the proposed designation as it deems necessary in consideration of
the comments of the Planning Commission.

      (7)   City Council Hearing. Upon receipt of the Commission's
recommendation for designation, the Council shall schedule and hold a public
hearing on the proposed Heritage Preservation designation. Notice of the
hearing shall be published in the city's official newspaper at least ten days
prior to the hearing, and notice of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten
days before the day of the hearing to all owners of record of the property or
properties proposed for Heritage Preservation designation and to all owners of
property situated within 350 feet of the building or site in question.

      (8)   City Council designation. After holding a public hearing, the City
Council may, by ordinance, designate a building and/or site Heritage
Preservation status. Such an ordinance shall require two-thirds vote of all
members of the City Council to be effective.

      (9)   Identification plaque. Those areas, places, buildings, structures,
districts and/or sites having been given Heritage Preservation designation by
the City Council may be awarded a plaque to be displayed on the exterior of the
property in full public view with the owner's consent. The plaque is to remain
the property of the City of Worthington and shall be removed by the request of
the Commission should the property be altered as to destroy the historic
integrity of the property.

      (10)   Recording of Heritage Preservation Sites. The City Clerk shall
record with the Nobles County Recorder the legal description of all lands
designated as heritage Preservation Sites by the City Council.

   (E)   Review of permits.

      (1)   Site alteration permit.  The Commission shall review and approve or
disapprove the issuance of a site alteration permit to do any of the following
on a Heritage Preservation Site in the City of Worthington:

         (a)   Painting, architectural details, and other related exterior
alterations.

         (b)   Addition or deletion of awnings, shutters, canopies, and similar
appurtenances.

         (c)   Application or use of exterior materials of a different kind,
type, color, or texture than those already in use which would substantially
cover one or more sides of the structure. This provision applies to roofing as
well as siding.

         (d)   Signs.

         (e)   Construction of a new building or accessory structure.

         (f)   Any addition to or alteration of an existing structure which
increases the square footage in the structure or otherwise alters its size,
height, contour or outline.

         (g)   Change or alteration of a structure's architectural style.

         (h)   Alteration of a roof line.

         (i)   Demolition in whole or part. This does not apply to structures
required to be demolished in accordance with M.S. Chapter 463.

         (j)   In addition to any other specifics, the Zoning Administrator may
require a property plan, building elevations, and design details and materials
as necessary to evaluate the request. Regular city permits shall also be
required.

      (2)   City activity. The Commission shall review and make recommendations
to the City Council concerning city activity that could change the nature or
appearance of a heritage preservation site.

      (3)   Design guidelines. All Commission decisions with respect to this
section shall be according to the approved design guidelines established for
each Heritage Preservation Site. The following shall be used to evaluate
applications for site alteration permits:

         (a)   Every reasonable effort shall be made to provide a compatible
use for a property which requires minimal alteration of the building, structure
or site and its environment or to use a property for its intended purposes.

         (b)   The distinguishing original qualities or character of a
building, structure or site and its environment shall not be destroyed. The
removal or alteration of any historic material or distinctive architectural
features must be avoided when possible.

         (c)   All buildings, structures and sites shall be recognized as
products of their own time. Alterations that have no historical basis and which
seek to create an earlier appearance shall be discouraged.

         (d)   Changes which may have taken place in the course of time are
evidence of the history and development of a building, structure or site and
its environment. These changes may have acquired significance in their own
right and this significance shall be recognized and respected.

         (e)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled
craftsmanship which characterize a building, structure or site shall be treated
with sensitivity.

         (f)   Deteriorated architectural features shall be repaired rather
than replaced, whenever possible. If replacement is necessary, the new material
should match the material being replaced in composition, design, color, texture
and other visual qualities. Repair or replacement of missing architectural
features must be based on accurate duplication of features, substantiated by
historic, physical or pictorial evidence rather than on conjectural designs or
the availability of different architectural elements from other buildings or
structures.

         (g)   The surface cleaning of structures shall be undertaken by the
gentlest means possible. Sandblasting and other cleaning methods that will
damage historic building materials shall not be undertaken.

         (h)   Contemporary design for alterations and additions shall not be
discouraged when such alterations and additions do not destroy significant
historical, architectural or cultural material and such design is compatible
with the size, scale, color, material, and character of the property,
neighborhood, or environment.

         (i)   Whenever possible new additions or alterations to structures
shall be done in a manner that if the additions or alterations were to be
removed in the future, the essential form and integrity of the structure would
be unimpaired.

      (4)   Findings. Before approving any permit application required under
this section, the Commission shall make findings based on the design guidelines
for the Heritage Preservation Site in regard to the following:

         (a)   Alterations or additions to an existing building must not
materially impair the architectural or historic value of the building. These
findings should consider the existing structures and exterior appearances,
building height, building width, depth or other dimensions, roof style, type of
building materials, ornamentation, paving and setback.

         (b)   Prior to approval of any building demolition, the Commission
shall make written findings of the following: Architectural and historic merit
of the building, the effect on surrounding buildings, the effect of any new
proposed construction on the remainder of the building (incase of partial
demolition) and on surrounding buildings, the economic value or usefulness of
the building, as it now exists or if altered or modified in comparison with the
value or usefulness of any proposed structures designated to replace the
present building.

         (c)   New buildings shall not materially impair the architectural or
historic value of buildings on adjacent sites or in the immediate vicinity
within the Heritage Preservation Site.

      (5)   Limitations. If within 60 days from the filing of a building permit
application the Commission has neither approved nor denied the building permit
application, the plans and permit application shall be deemed to have been
approved by the Commission. If all other requirements of the city have been
met, the Commission shall authorize a permit for the proposed work. No permit
shall be issued or work commenced if the Commission disapproves the application
in accordance with this section.

      (6)   Emergency Repair. In emergency situations where immediate repair is
needed to protect the safety of the structure and its inhabitants, the Building
Official may approve the repair without prior Commission action. In case of a
permit issued under this provision, the Building Official shall immediately
notify the Commission of its action and specify the facts or conditions
constituting the emergency.

      (7)   Appeals.  The permit applicant or any party aggrieved by the
Commission's decision shall, within ten days of the date of the Commission's
order and decision, have a right to appeal such order and decision to the City
Council. The appeal shall be deemed submitted upon receipt by the Manager of
Planning and Economic Development two copies of the letter requesting an appeal
and statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The Manager of Planning
and Economic Development shall give one copy to both the City Council and the
Commission. The City Council may overturn the Commission's order and decision
by a two-thirds vote of all members of the City Council. The Commission, in any
written order denying a permit application, shall advise the applicant of his
or her right to appeal to the City Council and shall include this section in
all such orders.

      (8)   Penalties.  An owner of any area, place, building, structure or
other object within a duly designated Heritage Preservation Site who violates
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, person or corporation who assists in the commission of a
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For each day an
owner allows any work to be performed in violation of this section, it shall
constitute a separate violation, and it shall be punishable as such. A Heritage
Preservation Site on which there exists and remodeling, repairing, construction
or a building moved in violation of this section, is declared a nuisance and
the imposition of the penalties prescribed shall not prevent the city from
instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to prevent an unlawful
remodeling, repair, construction, building, building moving or demolition or to
restrain, correct or abate a violation.
(Ord. 955, passed 11-24-03)
§ 155.106 LAKESHORE DISTRICT (L).
   This district is intended to allow year around occupancy of building located
in that area of the city lying in Parker's Lakeshore Subdivision on to the
city, lying southerly of West Lake Avenue and northerly of the lakeshore,
namely Lots 2-A through 24-W, as designated on the zoning map.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 F.) (Ord. 590, eff. 6-26-78)
§ 155.107 NATURAL FEATURES DISTRICT (S).
   (A)   Protection. No development shall be undertaken within the
"S" district which will reduce or adversely affect the biological, botanical or
zoological resource now existing within
the district.
   (B)   Wetlands.
      (1)   No one shall deposit or remove any material within a wetland,
excavate within a wetland, construct, alter or remove any structure within,
upon or across a wetland; plant or remove any vegetation within a wetland;
alter any embankment within a wetland or change the flow of water through the
wetland without first requiring a development permit.
      (2)   No conditional use permit for development in a wetland shall be
issued except in the following manner:
         (a)   Work shall not be performed during the breeding season of water
fowl or the fish spawning season.
         (b)   No part of a sewage disposal system requiring on land or in the
ground disposal of waste shall be located closer than 150 feet of the edge of
the wetland.
         (c)   Removal of vegetation shall be permitted only when and where
work has been approved according to this chapter.
         (d)   Floor elevations of buildings must be a least two feet above the
seasonal high water level of the wetland.
         (e)   Work shall not endanger unique/or endangered plant species nor
be conducted in areas of archaeological significance except by those expertly
trained in those fields.
   (C)   Woods.
      (1)   No one shall cut a tree or remove shrubs except that the developer
shall demonstrate that no feasible or prudent alternative exists and that if
such vegetation is cut he will restore the density of trees to that which
existed before development, but in no case shall he be compelled to raise
density above ten trees per acre.
      (2)   All existing development shall be maintained and no conditional use
permit for development shall be issued except in the following manner:
         (a)   Buildings shall be clustered in such a manner as to maximize the
preservation of existing trees and native vegetation.
         (b)   Species planted shall be hardy under local conditions, shall be
compatible with the local landscape and shall not include species presently
under disease epidemic.
         (c)   Grading and contouring shall take place so the root zone
aeration stability of existing trees, shall not be affected and shall maintain
existing trees with a watering penetration area equal to one-half the crown
area.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the above, the removal of trees seriously
damaged by storms or other acts of God, or diseased trees shall not be
prohibited.
   (D)   Public waters. Any proposed work in the beds of public waters which
will change the course, current or cross-section of public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of M.S. § 105.42.
('69 Code, § 7-16.03, Subd. 2 G.)
MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 155.120 LICENSE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Intent. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any mobile home
park within the limits of the city unless he holds a valid license issued
annually by the City Council in the name of such person for the specific mobile
home park. All applications for licenses shall be made to the City Council. The
City Council shall issue a license for a fee determined and reviewed from time
to time by the City Council upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of
this title.
   (B)   License transfer. Every person holding a license shall give notice in
writing to the Building Inspector within 72 hours after having sold,
transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of interest in or control of any
mobile home park. Such notice shall be made to the Building Inspector to
include the name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or
control of such mobile home park. Upon application in writing for transfer of
the permit, the permit shall be transferred without additional fee.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Application for the original licenses shall be in writing, signed
by the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the truth
of the application and shall contain: The applicant's name and address; the
location and legal description of the mobile home park; and a site plan of the
mobile home park, showing all mobile home lots, structures, roads, walkways,
and other facilities.
      (2)   Applications shall be reviewed by the City Planning Commission
which shall be satisfied that both site and plan conform with overall zoning
and development plans and objectives of the city.
      (3)   Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in writing by
the holders of the licenses, shall be accompanied by such fees as the City
Council may determine, and shall contain any change in the information
submitted since the original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (D)   Suspension or revocation. Whenever, upon inspection of any mobile home
park, the Building Inspector finds that conditions or practices exist which are
in violation of any provision of this title, the Building Inspector shall give
notice in writing to the person to whom the license was issued that conditions
or practices shall be corrected within a 30-day period of time specified in the
notice by the Building Inspector. At the end of such period of time the
Building Inspector shall re-inspect such mobile home park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, the City Council and the City
Clerk will give notice in writing of suspension of license to the person to
whom the license is issued. Upon receipt of such notice of suspension, such
person shall cease operation of such mobile home park.
   (E)   Extensions. If work to correct conditions or practices in violation of
this title cannot be completed in the 30-day period, extensions may be granted
by the Building Inspector if reasons of hardship do prevail and can be
verified. The Building Inspector shall notify the City Council of all
extensions granted.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this title may request and
shall be granted a hearing of the same before the City Council.
('69 Code, § 7-17.01)
§ 155.121 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorization. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and
directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory
compliance with this title, including the power to enter at reasonable times
upon any private or public property for said purpose.
   (B)   Registration record. Mobile home park operators shall be required to
maintain a current registration record of all residents of the mobile home park
and the Building Inspector, the Chief of Police, or their duly authorized
representatives shall have the power to inspect the registration record.
   (C)   Access. It shall be the duty of the park management to give the
Building Inspector free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose
of inspection.
   (D)   Repairs. It shall be the duty of every occupant of the mobile home
park to give the owner thereof or his agent or employee access to any part of
such mobile home park at reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with this title.
('69 Code, § 7-17.02)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.122 MINIMUM PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Hazards. Condition of soil, ground water level, drainage, and
topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health and safety of
the occupants. The site should not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise,
odors, or other adverse influences, and no portion shall be subject to
predictable or sudden flooding.
      (2)   Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone or other
solid materials, or protected with a grass or vegetable growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust. Flower and
vegetable gardens shall be permitted. If the garden is abandoned, the site must
be restored to satisfy the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of
every mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water
in a safe, efficient manner.
   (B)   Use requirements. No part of any mobile home park shall be used for
non-residential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well-being of park residents and for the management and
maintenance of the park.
   (C)   Area. Each mobile home park shall be of sufficient size to contain at
least ten fully-developed mobile home lots and required accessory structures
and areas.
   (D)   Open space. At least 10% of the gross land area within each mobile
home park shall be designed and reserved for development for recreational
purposes. Such space shall be developed and maintained by the owner of the
mobile park and shall not include or infringe upon space designated for mobile
home lots.
   (E)   Utilities.
      (1)   Water supply. Each mobile home shall be serviced by the city water
system.
      (2)   Sewage disposal. Each mobile home shall be serviced by the city
sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Utilities. All utilities shall be underground.
   (F)   Community building. Each mobile home park shall have one or more
central community buildings which may include a park office and other service
facilities such as repair shops, storage areas, sanitary facilities, laundry
facilities, indoor recreation areas and facilities, and commercial uses
supplying essential goods or services for the exclusive use of park occupants.
   (G)   Mobile park office. Each mobile home park shall maintain an office
which is clearly marked and which may be a mobile home or a part of a community
building. An adult caretaker shall be on duty at the park at all times.
   (H)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators. Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, woodburning stoves and incinerators shall
be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and
smoke nuisances both on the property on which used and on neighboring property,
and shall comply with all appropriate state and local codes, laws, ordinances
and other regulations including pollution regulations.
      (2)   Signs. The number, size, height, illumination and construction of
signs and the materials used in signs for each mobile home park shall be
governed by the city's sign ordinance.
      (3)   Fuel supply and storage. National gas piping systems, fuel oil
supply systems, or liquified petroleum gas systems shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such
systems.
('69 Code, § 7-17.03)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.123 MINIMUM MOBILE HOME LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cluster development. Cluster development shall be encouraged.
   (B)   Density. All new parks shall have a minimum lot size of 5,000 square
feet. Existing parks shall be as follows: at least 50% of the mobile home units
shall be on sites with a minimum of 5,000 square feet per unit in which the
total density does not exceed eight per acre excluding street right-of-way.
Making allowance for smaller mobile units, at least 50% of the units may be on
sites with a minimum of 4,000 square feet per unit in which the total density
does not exceed ten per acre excluding street right-of-way.
   (C)   Mobile home locations. No mobile home shall be less than ten feet from
another mobile home. Mobile homes placed essentially parallel to each other
shall be no closer than 20 feet. No mobile home shall be closer than 20 feet
from the front lot line abutting a private street and 25 feet from the front
lot line abutting a public street.
   (D)   Boundary area. No mobile home lot, off-street parking space, or
building shall be located within 20 feet of the boundary of any mobile home
park. This boundary area shall be landscaped.
   (E)   Additions. It shall not be permitted to construct, erect, attach, or
cause to be constructed, erected, or attached an enclosed room, wing, annex,
entrance or other similar structure to any mobile home or any mobile home lot
unless the same is so designed and constructed of compatible material retaining
the basic design of the original mobile home, provided further that the total
of such additional structure or structures shall not exceed 25% of the square
feet of the basic unit. Such additions shall comply with all side lot, front
lot and rear lot restrictions designated by this title for mobile home lots.
   (F)   Occupied areas. The occupied area of a mobile home lot shall not
exceed 50% of the total area of the lot. This restriction shall apply to
coverage by the mobile home and any connecting or attached structures.
   (G)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Yards. The yards of each mobile home lot shall be landscaped.
      (2)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the mobile park
owner to maintain landscaping including regular mowing of grass of all lots and
common areas. Landscaping and mowing individual lot areas may be made the
responsibility of tenants under the terms of property lease or sale agreements.
      (3)   Patios. Each mobile home lot shall have a hard-surfaced patio of at
least 100 square feet of area.
   (H)   Numbers. Each mobile home lot shall be identified by number and such
number shall be prominently posted.
   (I)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Boats, trailers, equipment. All boats, boat trailers, snowmobiles
hauling trailers and all other equipment not stored within the mobile home or
the community building or utility enclosure that may have been provided shall
be stored in a separate area provided by the park and not upon the lots
occupied by the mobile homes nor upon the streets within the mobile home park.
      (2)   Garages and storage buildings. Permits for the erection of garages
and storage buildings on individual lots may be granted by the City Council.
Such structures may not be closer than 20 feet from the front lot line abutting
a private street and 25 feet from the front lot line abutting a public street.
('69 Code, § 7-17.04)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.124 SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Streets. All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to each
mobile home lot. Such streets may be either public or private as agreed upon
between the mobile home park owner and the City Council.
   (B)   Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and, in any case shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
      (1)   All streets except minor streets shall be a minimum of 30 feet in
width from face of curb to face of curb. Streets without curb shall be
considered minor streets.
      (2)   Minor streets may be 25 feet in width but may not be more than 500
feet long and may not serve more than eight mobile home lots unless mobile
homes abut on one side only.
      (3)   Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 500 feet and shall
be provided at the closed end with a turn around or cul-de-sac.
      (4)   Every mobile home lot shall be served by a street.
      (5)   Public streets shall meet all standards prescribed by city codes
and regulations.
      (6)   All streets shall be hard-surfaced.
   (C)   Parking. Each mobile home lot shall have at least one parking space.
In addition, one off-street parking space shall be provided for each mobile
home lot. These spaces may be in compounds but no mobile home lot shall be more
than 200 feet from such compound. All parking space shall be hard-surfaced,
concrete or bituminous, or crushed rock treated so it is dust free.
   (D)   Common walks. A common walk system shall be provided along all streets
in conformance with city codes and regulations.
   (E)   Individual walks. All mobile homes shall be connected to a common
walk. Such individual walks shall have a minimum width of two feet.
   (F)   Illumination. All mobile home parks shall be furnished with lighting
units spaced and equipped to meet current city standards for residential
neighborhoods. Lighting along public streets shall be provided by the city in
accord with the same policies and regulations which apply to residential
neighborhoods.
   (G)   Refuse handling. Mobile home parks shall be subject to the same
regulations and shall be accorded the same public services which apply to all
residential areas.
   (H)   Insect and rodent control. Mobile home parks shall be subject to the
same regulations and inspections by the Health Officer and shall be accorded
the same control services including spraying
which apply to all residential areas. Brush and weeds shall be kept under
control and shall be subject to the regulations of the designated county or
municipal weed control official.
('69 Code, § 7-17.05)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.125 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fire protection. Mobile home parks shall be accorded the same fire
protection and both park owner and mobile home owners or tenants shall be
subject to the same fire regulations which apply to all residential areas.
   (B)   Fires. Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators or equipment
intended for such purposes.
   (C)   Fire extinguishers. Portable fire extinguishers rated for Class A, B,
& C fires shall be kept visible in service buildings and at other locations
conveniently and readily accessible for use by all of the occupants and shall
be maintained in good operating condition.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed in keeping with the
same policies which govern the installation of hydrants in all residential
areas.
('69 Code, § 7-17.06)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.126 MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Mobile home sales. The sale of mobile homes within a mobile home park
shall be restricted to not more than 10% of the total number of units in any
month. Their display shall be compatible with that of occupied units and the
use of advertising signs and attractions shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Transient occupancy. Approval may be granted for transient occupancy
of homes in a mobile home park. Approval may also be granted for rental lots.
Ownership of mobile homes in a park may be either by the park owner or by
individual owners.
   (C)   Snow removal. Snow shall be removed from streets and sidewalks in
compliance with current regulations which apply to all residential areas.
   (D)   The Mobile Homes Building Code. M.S. §§ 327.31 et seq. is hereby
adopted, and incorporated by reference into this title. Three copies of said
code, including the accompanying Rules and Regulations for Mobile Homes as
found in MoH 1-905, shall be marked "City of Worthington - Official Copy" and
kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, and shall be open for inspection
and use by the public.
   (E)   Skirts. Skirting of a permanent type material and construction shall
be installed to enclose the open space between the bottom of a mobile home
floor and the grade level of the mobile home stand and shall be constructed to
provide substantial resistance to heavy winds.
      (1)   Skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner consistent
with the exterior of the mobile home.
      (2)   Sufficient screened, ventilating area shall be installed in the
skirting to supply the combustion requirements of heating units and other
ventilating requirements of the mobile home. Provision shall be made for easy
removal of a section large enough to permit access for inspection for repairs
on sewer and water riser connections.
   (F)   Electrical connections. Each mobile home stand shall be provided with
an approved disconnecting device and over-current protective equipment. The
minimum service per mobile home stand outlet shall be according to city
specifications. Outlet receptacles at each mobile home stand shall be located
not more than 25 feet from the over-current protective devices in the mobile
home and a three-pole, four-wire grounding shall be used. Receptacles shall be
of weather-proof construction and configurations shall be in accordance with
Standard for Mobile Homes USAS A119.1 published by the United States of America
Standards Institute or similar equipment meeting the approval of the city
electrical code. The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet receptacle by
an approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment plug.
Where the calculated load is between 50 and 100 amperes, a second 50 ampere
power supply assembly may be installed or an electrical service shall be
provided by means of permanently installed conductors. All exposed non-current
carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all equipment having electrical
connections shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with
branch circuit or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring. The
neutral conductor shall not be used as a ground for mobile homes or other
electrical equipment.
   (G)   Water and sewer Water and sewer connections shall satisfy the
requirements of state and city codes and regulations and the regulations of the
Water and Sewer Departments and the Health Officer. Adequate provision must be
made to prevent freezing of water and service lines and connections.
   (H)   Restriction on occupancy. The mobile home shall not be occupied for
dwelling purposes until it is properly placed on a mobile home stand and is
connected to water, sewage, and electrical utilities and an occupancy permit is
secured.
   (I)   Notice. It is the responsibility of the park management to notify all
occupants of this title.
('69 Code, § 7-17.07)
Penalty, see § 155.999
SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 155.140 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND POLICY.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies
contained in M.S. Chapter 103F, Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.2500 - 6120.3900,
and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 462.
   (B)   The uncontrolled use of shorelands in the city affects the public
health, safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the
wise subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
Legislature of the state has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.141 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the
shorelands of the public water bodies as classified in § 155.144(A) of this
subchapter. Pursuant to Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.2500 - 6120.3900, no lake,
pond, or flowage less than ten acres in size in municipalities or 25 acres in
size in unincorporated areas need be regulated in a local government's
shoreland regulations. A body of water created by a private user where there
was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the governing body, be
exempt from this subchapter.
   (B)   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and
shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
subchapter and other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Zoning Administrator is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter. Any violation of the
provisions of this subchapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable as defined by law. Violations of this subchapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity pursuant to § 155.143(A) of this subchapter.
   (D)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this subchapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and
shall be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be
deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (E)   Severability. If any division, clause, provision or portion of this
subchapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this subchapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (F)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
subchapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this subchapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail. All other ordinances
inconsistent with this subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.142 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. Any building or improvement subordinate to
a principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonably be
located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18% over
a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the BLUFF.)
      (1)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area.
      (2)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
      (3)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
      (4)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Uses that provide transient, short-
term lodging spaces, rooms, or parcels and their operations are essentially
service-oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations, resorts,
recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service-oriented
activities are commercial planned unit developments.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   CONDITIONAL USE.  A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or development
conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community, and the use is
compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground.
   DUPLEX, TRIPLEX, AND QUAD. A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two,
three, and four units, respectively, being attached by common walls and each
unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living and sanitation
facilities.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicles sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any structure or portion of a structure, or other shelter
designed as short- or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, and resort
rooms and cabins.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not
regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   GUEST COTTAGE. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain sleeping
spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those provided in the
primary dwelling unit on a lot.
   HARDSHIP. Means the same as that term is defined in M.S. Chapter 394.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage, or transfer of goods, products, commodities,
or other wholesale items.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
   LOT. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means and separated from other parcels
or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or separation.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded, or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high water level is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a unified
site design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel,
whether for sale, rent, or lease, and also usually involving clustering of
these units or sites to provide areas of common open space, density increases,
and a mix of structure types and land uses. These developments may be organized
and operated as condominiums, time-share condominiums, cooperatives, full fee
ownership, commercial enterprises, or any combination of these, or cluster
subdivisions of dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses, apartment
buildings, campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels and
conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.245(15) and (18).
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A use where the nature of residency is
nontransient and the major or primary focus of the development is not service-
oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks, time-
share condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives, and full fee ownership residences
would be considered as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. To qualify as a
RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, a development must contain at least five
dwelling units or sites.
   SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line, or other
facility.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in § 155.145(H)(2) of this subchapter.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force mains, and
all other construction, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters;
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond, or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits
of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances
and when approved by the Commissioner.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08. A historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed on
either register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for listing
after review by the State Archaeologist or the Director of the State Historical
Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered to be
significant historic sites.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, gas
lines, towers, poles, and other supporting facilities.
   SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or lease,
including planned unit developments.
   SURFACE WATER ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
   TOE OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed,
a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to steeper slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent,
the  TOE OF BLUFF shall be determined to be the lower end of a 50-foot segment,
measured on the ground, with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed,
a clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break is apparent, the top of bluff shall be determined to be the upper
end of a 50-foot segment, measured on the ground, with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
   VARIANCE. The same as that term is defined or described in M.S. Chapter 462.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached
decks.
   WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a WETLAND in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition).
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.143 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or building
additions (and including such related activities as construction of decks and
signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment systems, the
alteration or addition of impervious area and those grading and filling
activities not exempted by § 155.145(C) of this subchapter. Application for a
permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator on the forms provided. The
application shall include the necessary information so that the Zoning
Administrator can determine the site's suitability for the intended use and
that a compliant sewage treatment system will be provided.
      (2)   A permit authorizing an addition to an exiting structure shall
stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system, as defined
by § 155.145(H)(2), shall be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue
a certificate of zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit as
specified in division (A) above of this section. This certificate will specify
that the use of land conforms to the requirements of this subchapter. Any use,
arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall
be deemed a violation of this subchapter and shall be punishable as provided in
§ 155.141(C) of this subchapter.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Variances may only be granted in accordance with M.S. Chapter 462,
as applicable. A variance may not circumvent the general purposes and intent of
this subchapter. No variance may be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a variance to ensure compliance
and to protect adjacent properties and the public interest. In considering a
variance request, the Board of Adjustment must also consider whether the
property owner has reasonable use of the land without the variance, whether the
property is used seasonally or year-round, whether the variance is being
requested solely on the basis of economic considerations, and the
characteristics of development on adjacent properties.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for
variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct of
business. When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural Resources
has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the notification of the
approved variance required in division (D)(2) below shall also include the
Board of Adjustment's summary of the public record/testimony and the findings
of facts and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
      (3)   For existing developments, the application for variance must
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for
the intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must required
reconstruction of a nonconforming sewage treatment system.
   (D)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments, or conditional uses under local shoreland management controls must
be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated representative and
postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to
consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/
plat.
      (2)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.144 SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM AND LAND USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Shoreland classification system. The public waters of the city have
been classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota Rules,
Part 6120.3300, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Nobles County,
Minnesota.
      (1)   The shoreland area for the waterbodies listed in divisions (2) and
(3) below shall be defined in § 155.142 and as shown on the official zoning
map.
      (2)   Lakes.
         General Development Lakes      Protected Waters inventory I.D. #
         Lake Okabena            53.28
      (3)   Rivers and streams.   Tributary streams.
         West Inlet - Lake Okabena (Unnamed tributary to Okabena Lake)
      From                     To
      Section      Township      Range      Section      Township      Range
      17      102         40      28      102         40
                              (Basin 53-28)
All protected watercourses in the city shown on the Protected Waters inventory
Map for Nobles County, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference, not
given a classification in Items A-E above shall be considered tributary.
   (B)   Land use district descriptions.
      (1)   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in division (B)(2)
below, and the delineation of a land use district's boundaries on the official
zoning map, must be consistent with the goals, policies, and objectives of the
comprehensive land use plan (when available) and the following criteria,
considerations, and objectives:
         (a)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
            1.   Preservation of natural areas;
            2.   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
            3.   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
            4.   Topographic characteristics;
            5.   Vegetative cover;
            6.   In-water physical characteristics, values, and constraints;
            7.   Recreational use of the surface water;
            8.   Road and service center accessibility;
            9.   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve
water and related land resources;
            10.   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature,
requires location in shoreland areas; and
            11. The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
         (b)   Factors and criteria for planned unit developments:
            1.   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
            2.   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
            3.   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development
approach;
            4.   Level of current development in the area; and
            5.   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
      (2)   Land use district descriptions. The land use districts provided
below, and the allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of
waterbodies, shall be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the
shorelands of this community. These land use districts are in conformance with
the criteria specified in Minnesota Regulation, Part 6120.3200, Subp.3:
   See Table - Schedule of Use Regulations - Shoreland Overlay District. (See
Appendix F following this chapter.)
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.145 ZONING AND WATER SUPPLY/SANITARY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lot area and width standards. The lot area (in square feet) and lot
width standards (in feet) for single, duplex, triplex and quad residential lots
created after the date of enactment of this subchapter for the lake and river/
stream classifications are the following:
      (1)   Unsewered lakes.
         General development.
      Riparian Lots      Nonriparian Lots
      Area   Width   Area   Width
   Single   20,000   100   40,000   150
   Duplex   40,000   180   80,000   265
   Triplex   60,000   260   120,000   375
   Quad   80,000   340   160,000   490
      (2)   Sewered lakes.
      General development.
      Riparian Lots      Nonriparian Lots
      Area   Width   Area   Width
   Single   15,000   75   10,000   75
   Duplex   26,000   135   17,500   135
   Triplex   38,000   195   25,000   190
   Quad   49,000   255   32,500   245
      (3)   River/stream lot width standards. There is no minimum lot size
requirements for rivers and streams. The lot width standards for single,
duplex, triplex and quad residential developments for the stream
classifications are:
                  Tributary
                  No sewer      Sewer
         Single         100         75
         Duplex         150         115
         Triplex         200         150
         Quad         250         190
      (4)   Additional special provisions.
         (a)   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities exceeding
those in the tables in divisions (2) and (3) above can only be allowed if
designed and approved as residential planned unit developments under § 155.148.
Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters can be used to
meet lot area standards, and lot width standards must be met at both the
ordinary high water level and at the building line. The sewer lot area
dimensions in division (A)(2) above can only be used if publicly owned sewer
system service is available to the property.
         (b)   One guest cottage may be allowed on lots meeting or exceeding
the duplex area and width dimensions presented in divisions (A)(1) through (3)
above, provided the following standards are met:
            1.   For lots exceeding the minimum lot dimensions of duplex lots,
the guest cottage must be located within the smallest duplex-sized lot that
could be created including the principal dwelling unit;
            2.   A guest cottage must not cover more than 700 square feet of
land surface and must not exceed 15 feet in height; and
            3.   A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
         (c)   Lots intended as controlled access to public waters or as
recreation areas for use by owners of nonriparian lots within subdivisions are
permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards:
            1.   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots, and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access lots.
            2.   If docking, mooring, or over-water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percent of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six,
consistent with the following table:
         Controlled Access Lot Frontage Requirements
         Ratio of lake size         Required increase
         to shore length            in frontage
         (acres/mile)            (percent)
         Less than 100            25
         100-200            20
         201-300            15
         301-400            10
         Greater than 400         5
            3.   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of nonriparian lots in the subdivision who are
provided riparian access rights in the access lot; and
            4.   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring, or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict with general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the nonsignificant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing, or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the total
number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked, or stored over
water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and activities
in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking areas, storage
buildings, and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as
much as practical from view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.
   (B)   Placement, design, and height of structures.
      (1)   Placement of structures on lots. When more than one setback applies
to a site, structures and facilities must be located to meet all setbacks.
Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed
building site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to conform
to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level, provided the
proposed building site is not located in a shore impact zone or in a bluff
impact zone. Structures shall be located as follows.
         (a)   Structure and on-site sewage system setbacks.
   Structure and on-site Sewage System Setbacks (in feet) from Ordinary High
Water Level*
                           Setbacks*
Classes of      Structures                     Sewage Treatment
Public Waters      Unsewered         Sewered         System
Lakes
General Development      75         50            50
Rivers
Tributary         100         50            75
*One water-oriented accessory structure designed in accordance with division
(B)(2) below of this section may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet
from the ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Additional structure setbacks. The following additional
structure setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the waterbody:
         Setback From               Setback (in feet)
         Top of bluff                  30
         Unplatted cemetery               50
         Right-of-way line of               50
         federal, state, or county
         highway; and
         Right-of-way line of town            20
         road, public street, or other
         roads or streets not classified
         (c)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (d)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if
located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back
double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
      (2)   Design criteria for structures.
         (a)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance
with any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do
not exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is
placed or flood-proofed must be determined as follows:
            1.   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least
three feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the
ordinary high water level, whichever is higher;
            2.   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least
three feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are not
available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary
high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine effects
of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to establish a
flood protection elevation. Under all three approaches, technical evaluations
must be done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with parts
6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the management of flood plain areas. If more
than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation determined
must be used for placing structures and other facilities; and
            3.   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure is
constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
         (b)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one
water-oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in
division (B)(1) above of this section if this water-oriented accessory
structure complies with the following provisions:
            1.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point;
            2.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary
high water level must be at least ten feet;
            3.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
            4.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area;
            5.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for
human habitation and, with the exception of “L” - Lakeshore zoned properties,
must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities; and
            6.   As an alternative for general development and recreational
development waterbodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water-oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet provided the
maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to the
configuration of the shoreline.
         (c)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements:
            1.   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
            2.   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties, and
planned unit developments;
            3.   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
            4.   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
            5.   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
            6.   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (B)
(2)(c)1. through 5. above are complied with in addition to the requirements of
Minnesota Regulations, Chapter 1340.
         (d)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
         (e)   Steep slopes. The Zoning Administrator must evaluate possible
soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before
issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures, or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined
necessary, conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and
to preserve existing vegetation, screening of structures, vehicles, and other
facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-
on vegetation.
      (3)   Height of structures. All structures in residential districts,
except churches and nonresidential agricultural structures, shall not exceed 30
feet in height.
   (C)   Shoreland alterations. Alterations of vegetation and topography will
be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve
shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping, and
protect fish and wildlife habitat.
      (1)   Vegetation alterations.
         (a)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by division (D) below of this section are exempt from
the vegetation alteration standards that follow.
         (b)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in divisions (F)(2) and (3) below,
respectively, is allowed subject to the following standards:
            1.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff
impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing
for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable
as a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed
and approved by the soil and water conservation district in which the property
is located.
            2.   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, beach and watercraft access areas, and permitted water-oriented
accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
               a.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities
as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
               b.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
               c.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
      (2)   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
         (a)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, together with patios, walks and other impervious
surfaces provided that the plans submitted for said construction identify all
such areas; sewage treatment systems, and driveways, under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and filling standards
in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways.
         (b)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by division (D) of
this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding divisions (C)(2)(a) and (b) above, a grading and
filling permit or a permit to alter or add impervious area will be required
for:
            1.   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
            2.   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside
of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
            3.   The alteration or addition of more than ten square feet of
impervious area in any single calendar year, or the cumulative alteration or
addition of more than 50 square feet of impervious area.
         (d)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
            1.   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities of the wetland*:
               a.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
               b.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood
damage;
               c.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
               d.   Recreational use;
               e.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
               f.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as
historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or
others.
*This evaluation must also include a determination of whether the wetland
alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals by other
local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, or the United States Army Corps of Engineer.
The applicant will be so advised.
            2.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible;
            3.   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary,
for temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
            4.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used;
            5.   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service;
            6.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope;
            7.   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater;
            8.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones;
            9.   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245;
            10. Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties; and
            11. Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading
of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water
level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does
not exceed three feet.
         (e)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended
purpose is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons,
and harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
   (D)   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas.
      (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening
from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a qualified
individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to
minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with the field office
technical guides of the local soil and water conservation district, or other
applicable technical materials.
      (2)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks
and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
      (3)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and
access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this subchapter are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of division (C)
(2) above must be met.
   (E)   Stormwater management. The following general and specific standards
shall apply:
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
         (c)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials
and facilities.
      (2)   Specific standards.
         (a)   All development occurring on land not platted prior to March 13,
1995 and lots or parcels greater than one acre in size shall not exceed an
impervious surface lot coverage of 25% for all such properties in the Shoreland
Overlay District. (Shown as SO zones on the official zoning map.)
         (b)   The maximum impervious surface coverage for lots within
subdivisions platted prior to March 13, 1995 and lots or parcels less than one
acre in size shall not exceed 35%, except as follows:
            1.   The Downtown Business District, which is encompassed by the
Shoreland Overlay District is defined as follows: The northwest 136 feet of
Block 8; the northwest 136 feet of the northeast half of Block 9; the northeast
half of Block 12; all of Block 13; the southwest half of Block 17; and all of
Block 18; all in the plat of Worthington. (Shown as SO-1 on the official zoning
map.)
               a.   The maximum impervious surface lot coverage for downtown
commercial lots located within SO-1 shall be 75%. New or expanding commercial
businesses in the downtown area that exceed or would propose to exceed the 75%
impervious surface lot coverage shall be required to develop a stormwater
management plan for the lot. Best management practices which can be used on a
small area include:
                  i.   Directing surface runoff through grassed or vegetated
areas to filter out sediments.
                  ii. The construction of stormwater catch basins within
parking lots. The size of the catch basin would be capable of holding runoff
from a two-year storm event for 24 hours.
                  iii. Incorporation of a maintenance plan for stormwater
control structures.
               b.   An alternative to the individual management plans would be
the development of a comprehensive drainage plan for the downtown area.
               c.   Individual stormwater management plans or a comprehensive
plan for the downtown area shall be approved by the City Engineer and the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
            2.   The maximum impervious surface coverage for lots located
within the Olsen, Plat of Worthington (Original Townsite), Park and Turner
Subdivisions (shown as SO-2 on the official zoning map) shall not exceed 40%.
            3.   Within the Shoreland Overlay District (except the downtown
business district and those areas of Turners, Park, Olsen, and the Original
Townsite previously identified, shown as SO-1 and SO-2 on the official zoning
map) lots less than 7,500 square feet in size shall be allowed an impervious
surface lot coverage of 35%, or up to 2,000 square feet of impervious surface
area, whichever is greater, but in no case shall the impervious area be allowed
to exceed 50% of the lot or parcel in question.
            4.   Any parcel subject to the 25% or 35% maximum impervious
surface lot coverage may, through the design and implementation of an
appropriate stormwater management plan for the parcel, have a maximum of 40%
impervious lot coverage.
               a.   Best management which can be used on a small area include:
                  i.   Directing surface runoff through grassed or vegetated
areas to filter out sediments.
                  ii.   The construction of stormwater catch basins. The size
of the catch basin would be capable of holding runoff from a two year storm
event for 24 hours.
                  iii.   Incorporation of a maintenance plan for stormwater
control structures.
               b.   Stormwater management plans shall be approved by the City
Engineer and the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources prior to the
issuance of a building permit.
         (c)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation districts.
         (d)   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
   (F)   Special provisions for commercial, industrial, public/semipublic,
agricultural, forestry and extractive uses and mining of metallic minerals and
peat.
      (1)   Standards for commercial, industrial, public, and semipublic uses.
         (a)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public,
or semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public
waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those
uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
            1.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks,
and other zoning standards in this subchapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards:
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff;
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters; and
               c.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore
impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
         (b)   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      (2)   Agriculture use standards. General cultivation farming, grazing,
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting
are permitted uses if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are
maintained in permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation
plan (Resource Management Systems) consistent with the field office technical
guides of the local soil and water conservation districts or the United States
Soil Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency. The
shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to
a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water level.
      (3)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and
associated reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of
the Minnesota Nonpoint Source Pollution Assessment-Forestry and the provisions
of Water Quality in Forest Management Best Management Practices in Minnesota.
      (4)   Extractive use standards.
         (a)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion, and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
         (b)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Process machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
   (G)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas
shall be subject to the review and approval procedures, and criteria and
conditions for review of conditional uses established
community-wide. The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions
apply within shoreland areas:
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, vegetation, and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City Council,
upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this
subchapter, shall attach such conditions to the issuance of the conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this subchapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design, and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas,
and vehicle parking areas.
   (H)   Water supply and sewage treatment.
      (1)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the Minnesota
Department of Health and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (2)   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows:
         (a)   Publicly-owned sewer systems must be used where available.
         (b)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's standards for individual sewage treatment
systems contained in the document titled Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Chapter 7080, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this subchapter.
         (c)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the
ordinary high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in division
(B)(1) of this section.
         (d)   All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems shall
be evaluated in accordance with the criteria in divisions 1. through 4. below.
If the determination of a site's suitability cannot be made with publicly
available, existing information, it shall then be the responsibility of the
applicant to provide sufficient soil borings and percolation tests from on-site
field investigations. Evaluation criteria:
            1.   Depth to the highest known or calculated ground water table or
bedrock;
            2.   Soil conditions, properties, and permeability;
            3.   Slope;
            4.   The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions, and rock
outcrops.
         (e)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with § 155.146(C) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95; Am. Ord. 833, passed 5-12-97; Am. Ord. 1135, passed
4-22-19)
§ 155.146 NONCONFORMITIES.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this subchapter
may continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes
and other regulations of this community for the subjects of alterations and
additions, repair after damage, discontinuance of use, and intensification of
use; except that the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas:
   (A)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the date of
enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements of §
155.145(A) may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this subchapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
      (3)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of § 155.145(A) of
this subchapter the lot must not be considered as a
separate parcel of land for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must
be combined with the one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more
parcels of land, each meeting the requirements of § 155.145(A) of this
subchapter as much as possible.
   (B)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
      (1)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height, and other
requirements of § 155.145 of this subchapter. Any deviation from these
requirements must be authorized by a variance pursuant to § 155.143(C).
      (2)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
         (a)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         (b)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
         (c)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         (d)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed or
screened.
   (C)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
      (1)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of § 155.145
(H) of this subchapter must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or
variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall
not be considered nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment
system's improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
      (2)   The governing body of the city has by formal resolution notified
the Commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment
systems. The city will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years. Sewage systems installed according to all applicable
local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. § 103F.201, in effect
at the time of installation may be considered as conforming unless they are
determined to be failing, except that systems using cesspools, leaching pits,
seepage pits, or other deep disposal methods, or systems with less soil
treatment area separation above groundwater than required by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency's Chapter 7080 for design of on-site sewage treatment
systems, shall be considered nonconforming.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.147 SUBDIVISION/PLATTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision, including
planned unit developments authorized under § 155.148 of this subchapter, must
be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration.
Suitability analysis by the local unit of government shall consider
susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, steep
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near-
shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish
and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites, or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
   (B)   Consistency with other controls. Subdivisions must conform to all
official controls of this community. A subdivision will not be approved where a
later variance from one or more standards in official controls would be needed
to use the lots for their intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly
owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless
domestic water supply is available and a sewage treatment system consistent
with § 155.145(B) and (H) can be provided for every lot. Each lot shall meet
the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of § 155.145(A), including at
least a minimum contiguous lawn area, that is free of limiting factors
sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment systems. Lots
that would require use of holding tanks must not be approved.
   (C)   Information requirements. Sufficient information must be submitted by
the applicant for the community to make a determination of land suitability.
The information shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
      (2)   The surface water features required in § § 505.02(1), to be shown
on plats, obtained from United States Geological Survey quadrangle topographic
maps or more accurate sources;
      (3)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests, or other methods;
      (4)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near-shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments, and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling stormwater runoff and erosion,
both during and after construction activities;
      (5)   Location of 100-year flood plain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data; and
      (6)   A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
"toe" and the "top" of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.
   (D)   Dedications.  When a land or easement dedication is a condition of
subdivision approval, the approval must provide easements over natural drainage
or ponding areas for management of stormwater and significant wetlands.
   (E)   Platting. All subdivisions that create five or more lots or parcels
that are 2½ acres or less in size shall be processed as a plat in accordance
with M.S. Chapter 505. No permit for construction of buildings or sewage
treatment systems shall be issued for lots created after these official
controls were enacted unless the lot was approved as part of a formal
subdivision.
   (F)   Controlled access or recreational lots. Lots intended as controlled
accesses to public waters or for recreational use areas for use by nonriparian
lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed the sizing criteria in § 155.145
(A)(4) of this subchapter.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
§ 155.148 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUD'S).
   (A)   Types of PUD's permissible. Planned unit developments (PUD's) are
allowed for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built
sites, or conversions of existing buildings and land. The land use districts in
which they are an allowable use are identified in the land use district
descriptions in § 155.144(B) of this subchapter and the official zoning map.
   (B)   Processing of PUD's. Planned unit developments must be processed as a
conditional use, except that an expansion to an existing commercial PUD
involving six or less new dwelling units or sites since the date this
subchapter was adopted is permissible as a permitted use provided the total
project density does not exceed the allowable densities calculated in the
project density evaluation procedures in division (E) below of this section.
   (C)   Application for a PUD. The applicant for a PUD must submit the
following documents prior to final action being taken on the application
request:
      (1)   A site plan and/or plat for the project showing locations of
property boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures
and other facilities, land alterations, sewage treatment and water supply
systems (where public systems will not be provided), and topographic contours
at ten-foot intervals or less. When a PUD is combined commercial and
residential development, the site plan and/or plat must indicate and
distinguish which buildings and portions of the project are residential,
commercial, or a combination of the two.
      (2)   A property owners association agreement (for residential PUD's)
with mandatory membership, and all in accordance with the requirements of
division (F) below of this section.
      (3)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other
instruments that properly address future vegetative and topographic
alterations, construction of additional buildings, beaching of
watercraft, and construction of commercial buildings in residential PUD's; and
ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of open space in accordance
with the criteria and analysis specified in division (F) of this section.
      (4)   When necessary, a master plan/drawing describing the project and
the floor plan for all commercial structures to be occupied.
      (5)   Those additional documents as requested by the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, or the City Council that are necessary to
explain how the PUD will be designed and will function.
   (D)   Site "suitable area" evaluation. Proposed new or expansions to
existing planned unit developments must be evaluated using the following
procedures and standards to determine the suitable area for the dwelling unit/
dwelling site density evaluation in division (E) below of this section.
      (1)   The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating one or
more lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high
water level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
   Shoreland Tier Dimensions   Unsewered   Sewered
      (feet)   (feet)
   General development lakes -   200   200
   first tier
   General development lakes -   267   200
   second and additional tiers
   All river classes   300   300
      (2)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by excluding
from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs, or land below the ordinary high water
level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed project are then
subjected to either the residential or commercial planned unit development
density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or
sites.
   (E)   Residential and commercial PUD density evaluation. The procedures for
determining the "base" density of a PUD and density increase multipliers are as
follows. Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any other tier
further from the waterbody, but must not be transferred to any other tier
closer.
      (1)   Residential PUD "base" density evaluation. The suitable area within
each tier is divided by the single residential lot size standard for lakes or,
for rivers, the single residential lot width standard times the tier depth,
unless the local unit of government has specified an alternative minimum lot
sizes for rivers which shall then be used to yield a base density of dwelling
units or sites for each tier. Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units
or sites for the residential planned unit developments are then compared with
the tier, density, and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in
division (F) below of this section.
      (2)   Commercial PUD "base" density evaluation.
         (a)   Determine the average inside living area size of dwelling units
or sites within each tier, including both existing and proposed units and
sites. Computation of inside living area sizes need not include decks, patios,
stoops, steps, garages, or porches and basements, unless they are habitable
space.
         (b)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following
table:
Commercial Planned Unit Development Floor Area Ratios*
Public Water Classes
                    Sewered general    Second and
                    development lakes; additional tiers on
                    first tier on      unsewered general
*Average unit floor unsewered general  development lakes;  Natural environment
area (sq. ft.)      development lakes; recreational        lakes and remote
                    urban,             development lakes;  river segments
                    agricultural,      transition and
                    tributary river    forested river
                    segments           segments
200                 .040               .020                .010
300                 .048               .024                .012
400                 .056               .028                .014
500                 .065               .032                .016
600                 .072               .038                .019
700                 .082               .042                .021
800                 .091               .046                .023
900                 .099               .050                .025
1,000               .108               .054                .027
1,100               .116               .058                .029
1,200               .125               .064                .032
1,300               .133               .068                .034
1,400               .142               .072                .036
1,500               .150               .075                .038
*For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios
listed for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios
listed for 1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios
listed at 400 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping
areas shall use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home, or if
unknown, the ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.
 
         (c)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area
ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling
units or sites.
         (d)   Divide the total floor area by tier computed in division (c)
above by the average inside living area size determined in division (a) above.
This yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for each tier.
         (e)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for
the commercial planned unit development are then compared with the tier,
density and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in division (F)
below.
      (3)   Density increase multipliers.
   (a)   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities
previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards in § 155.145
are met or exceeded and the design criteria in division (F) below of this
section are satisfied. The allowable density increases in division (b) below
will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the ordinary high water level
are increased to at least 50% greater than the minimum setback, or the impact
on the waterbody is reduced an equivalent amount through vegetative management,
topography, or additional means acceptable to the local unit of government and
the setback is at least 25% greater than the minimum setback.
         (b)   Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases for
residential or commercial planned unit developments:
      Maximum density increase
   Density evaluation tiers   within each tier (percent)
   First   50
   Second   100
   Third   200
   Fourth   200
   Fifth   200
   (F)   Maintenance and design criteria.
      (1)   Maintenance and administration requirements.
         (a)   Before final approval of a planned unit development, adequate
provisions must be developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development.
         (b)   Open space preservation. Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent
easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other equally effective and
permanent means must be provided to ensure long-term preservation and
maintenance of open space. The instruments must include all of the following
protections:
            1.   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PUD's);
            2.   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance prohibited;
            3.   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles
and other materials prohibited; and
            4.   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
         (c)   Development organization and functioning. Unless an equally
effective alternative community framework is established, when applicable, all
residential planned unit developments must use an owners association with the
following features:
            1.   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers;
            2.   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association's
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites;
            3.   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions; and
            4.   The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes, and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
      (2)   Open space requirements. Planned unit developments must contain
open space meeting all of the following criteria:
         (a)   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as open
space;
         (b)   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way, or land covered by
road surfaces, parking areas, or structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space;
         (c)   Open space must include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries;
         (d)   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use
by owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites, and by the general public;
         (e)   Open space may include subsurface sewage treatment systems if
the use of the space is restricted to avoid adverse impacts on the systems;
         (f)   Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but
may contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities;
         (g)   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation, and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means; and
         (h)   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must
be included as open space. For residential PUD's, at least 50% of the shore
impact zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact
zone area of new developments must be preserved in its natural or existing
state. For commercial PUD's, at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be
preserved in its natural state.
      (3)   Erosion control and stormwater management. Erosion control and
stormwater management plans must be developed and the PUD must:
         (a)   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction.
This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of bare
ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips, or other appropriate techniques must be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans
approved by a soil and water conservation district may be required if project
size and site physical characteristics warrant; and
         (b)   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably
expected quantities and qualities of stormwater runoff. Impervious surface
coverage within any tier must not exceed 25% of the tier area, except that for
commercial PUD's 35% impervious surface coverage may be allowed in the first
tier of general development lakes with an approved stormwater management plan
and consistency with § 155.145(C).
      (4)   Centralization and design of facilities. Centralization and design
of facilities and structures must be done according to the following standards:
         (a)   Planned unit developments must be connected to publicly owned
water supply and sewer systems, if available. On-site water supply and sewage
treatment systems must be centralized and designed and installed to meet or
exceed applicable standards or rules of the Minnesota Department of Health and
§ 155.145(B) and (H) of this subchapter. On-site sewage treatment systems must
be located on the most suitable areas of the development, and sufficient lawn
area fee of limiting factors must be provided for a replacement soil treatment
system for each sewage system;
         (b)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or more
groups and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed
and located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the
relevant shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water level,
elevation above the surface water features, and maximum height. Setbacks from
the ordinary high water level must be increased in accordance with division (E)
(3) above of this section for developments with density increases;
         (c)   Shore recreation facilities, including but not limited to
swimming areas, docks, and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must
be centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of
suitability must include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation,
soils, depth to groundwater and bedrock, or other relevant factors. The number
of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring, or docking of watercraft
must not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers;
         (d)   Structures, parking areas, and other facilities must be treated
to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetations, topography, increased setbacks, color, or other means acceptable
to the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
Vegetative and topographic screening must be preserved, if existing, or may be
required to be provided;
         (e)   Accessory structures and facilities, except water oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structure setback and
must be centralized; and
         (f)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may be
allowed if they meet or exceed design standards contained in § 155.145(B) of
this subchapter and are centralized.
   (G)   Conversions. Local governments may allow existing resorts or other
land uses and facilities to be converted to residential planned unit
developments if all of the following standards are met:
      (1)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards must be identified.
      (2)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment, structure
color, impervious coverage, open space, and shore recreation facilities must be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
      (3)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements must
include, where applicable, the following:
         (a)   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks, or other facilities that
no longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;
         (b)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve
vegetative cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from
the water; and
         (c)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff impact
zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude
exterior expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions
must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to
other locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are
rebuilt or replaced.
      (4)   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards in division (E) above of this section may be allowed to continue but
must not be allowed to be increased, either at the time
of conversion or in the future. Efforts must be made during the conversion to
limit impacts of high densities by requiring seasonal use, improving vegetative
screening, centralizing shore recreation facilities, installing new sewage
treatment systems, or other means.
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
DEVELOPMENT PERMITS
§ 155.160 COMPLIANCE OF ALL DEVELOPMENT.
   All development within the city except as hereafter specified, shall be
undertaken in accordance with the terms of this title and only after a
development permit is issued.
('69 Code, § 7-25.01)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.161 FOUR TYPES OF DEVELOPMENT.
   This title provides for four types of development:
   (A)   Development for which a permit will be granted as of right on
compliance with the terms of this title, hereinafter called general
development.
   (B)   Development of which a development permit will be granted only after
exercise of discretion of the Commission in accordance with criteria of this
title, hereinafter called special development.
   (C)   Development which is exempt from the requirement of obtaining a
development permit but otherwise subject to the general development provisions
of this title, hereinafter called non-profit general development, see §
155.171.
   (D)   Development which is exempt from the regulations of this title, as
defined under the term DEVELOPMENT, see Definitions, § 155.010.
('69 Code, § 7-25.02)
§ 155.162 FILING; APPLICATIONS.
   The request shall be filed on an official application for development permit
form of the type applicable to the proposed development.
   (A)   Development permit for construction. Every application for a
development permit for construction shall be filed with the Administrator and
shall include a legal description, plans drawn to scale showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the subject parcel, the exact location, nature,
dimensions and elevation of the existing and proposed development, the proposed
occupancy,
dimensioned parking spaces, and such other information as may be necessary for
the enforcement of this title.
   (B)   Development permit for other than construction.
      (1)   Types of activities other than construction requiring development
permit. All activities listed under divisions (1)(a) through (l) defined under
DEVELOPMENT in § 155.010, not otherwise excluded by Section 7-16.02, Subd. 16
(b).
      (2)   Application. Every application for a development permit for general
development other than construction shall be filed with the Administrator and
shall include a legal description, plans drawn to scale showing the actual
shape and dimensions of the subject parcel, the exact location, nature,
dimensions and elevation of the existing and proposed development, the proposed
occupancy, dimensioned parking spaces and other such information as may be
necessary for the enforcement of this title.
   (C)   In the Flood Hazard District. A development permit issued by the
Administrator in conformity with the provisions of this title shall be secured
prior to the erection, addition or alteration of any building, structure, or
portion thereof; prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or
land; prior to the change or extension of a non-conforming use; and prior to
the placement of fill or excavation of materials within the Flood Plain
District.
('69 Code, § 7-25.03)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.163 ISSUANCE OF DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Application for a development permit shall be checked by the
Administrator. If the application covers construction of a single family
dwelling structure, or construction of an accessory building to a single family
dwelling, and said construction is in Zoning Districts R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, R-5,
and R-7, the Administrator shall issue a development permit, provided the
application complies with all laws and with this title, and provided further
that the permit fee has been paid.
   (B)   In all other cases, application for the issuance of a development
permit shall be made to the Administrator, who shall refer the application to
the Commission as is appropriate for the type of action requested - within 15
days of the time a valid application is filed. The Commission shall hold
hearings on the application for special development permits, as required by §
155.164. The Commission shall make written recommendation upon the application
to the Council, and shall recommend whatever action it deems advisable, giving
reasons therefor. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the Commission, the
Council shall make a decision upon the application.
      (1)   Action by the Council granting either a general or special
development permit, or granting the permit on condition, is a grant of a
development permit. A grant or denial of a development permit is an order or
development order.
      (2)   The Council shall issue a general development permit if it finds
that the development for which the permit is sought constitutes general
development permitted by this title.
      (3)   If issuance of a development order involves exercise of discretion
by the Council, (Special Development), the Commission shall hold a hearing
before issuance. In all other cases a development permit shall be issued
without a hearing unless:
         (a)   This title provides otherwise; or
         (b)   An applicant or a person who would have been entitled to notice
alleges that the issuance of the order involved the exercise of discretion and
requests that a hearing be held.
      (4)   If a development order is issued without a hearing, it may not be
set aside on the ground of failure to hold a hearing unless a request for a
hearing has been filed with the Administrator within four weeks of issuance of
the order.
      (5)   The Council may make minor modifications in the terms of a
development permit previously granted without holding a hearing if the Council
determines that the development as modified will be lawful under this title.
   (C)   Issuance of development permits other than construction shall be in
accordance with division (B) above of this section.
('69 Code, § 7-25.04)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.164 HEARINGS WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Published notice. At least ten days in advance of a hearing, the city
shall publish notice of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation, and
shall give notice individually to the following:
      (1)   The developer.
      (2)   Owners of any land wholly or partly within 350 feet of the parcel
on which development is proposed, unless the public hearing is for a zoning
district boundary change affecting an area of more than five acres, in which
case this requirement shall not apply to the public hearing for the zoning
district boundary change.
      (3)   Any other person, agency, or organization that has filed with the
Administrator, a request to receive notices of hearings and has paid a
reasonable fee thereof.
      (4)   Any person who may be designated by this title.
   (B)   Posted notice. At the discretion of the Administrator, he may post
notice on the parcel in place of the notice required under division (A)(2)
above of this section except for zoning amendments.
   (C)   Contents of notice. The notice shall:
      (1)   Give time, place and date of the hearing;
      (2)   Contain a statement describing the subject matter of the hearing;
and
      (3)   Specify that additional information can be obtained from the
Administrator.
   (D)   Joint hearings. A developer seeking to undertake development requiring
multiple permits may apply for a joint hearing on all of the permits by making
such a request in writing to the city and by filing applications for each of
the permits on which he seeks a joint hearing.
   (E)   Written statements. A written statement giving the name and address of
the person making the appearance, signed by him or by his attorney and filed
with the presiding officer, constitutes appearance of record.
   (F)   Hearing conduct. The presiding officers shall be the Chairman of the
Commission or Board or such person as the Chairman shall designate. The
presiding officer may impose rules for the conduct of the hearing and impose
reasonable limitations on the number of witnesses heard and on the nature and
length of their testimony and cross-examinations. The presiding officer may
call witnesses and introduce papers on his own volition.
   (G)   Hearing record. A record of the hearing shall be made by the secretary
or other person designated by the presiding officer. If a sound recording is
made, and person shall also have the opportunity to listen to the recording at
any reasonable time.
   (H)   Decision notice. The Commission or Board shall make a recommendation
to the City Council within 30 days of the hearing. The recommendation shall be
made in writing, and shall include written findings of fact and conclusions,
together with the reasons therefor. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the
Commission or Board, the Council may hold whatever public hearings it deems
advisable, and shall make a decision on the application to grant a permit. The
Administrator shall mail notice of the decision of the Council to the developer
and those who have left a self-addressed stamped envelope with the
Administrator for that purpose.
   (I)   Denial waiting period. A denial of a permit or zoning amendment shall
be a final determination for a period of one year that the development will not
be permitted unless the City Council's order includes leave to amend. After the
expiration of the one-year period, a developer may make a new application for a
permit for the same development or amendment for the same zoning change.
('69 Code, § 7-25.05) (Am. Ord. 830, passed 3-10-97)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.165 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   The issuance of a development permit authorizes the developer to commence
development immediately upon receiving notice from the city (see § 155.164(H)),
but subject to any lawful conditions attached by the Commission. A development
permit does not authorize occupancy, see § 155.169.
('69 Code, § 7-25.06)
§ 155.166 EXPIRATION OF A PERMIT.
   If the work described in any development permit has not begun within six
months from the date of issuance, or if the work lies idle for a period of six
months or more, or if the work has not been substantially completed in 2½ years
of the date of permit issuance thereof, said permit shall expire; it shall be
revoked by the Administrator and written notice thereof shall be given to the
person affected. Said notice shall indicate further work as described on the
canceled permit shall not proceed unless a new permit is issued or the
Administrator grants an extension.
('69 Code, § 7-25.07) (Am. Ord. 920, passed 4-9-01)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.167 PERMITS SUBJECT TO CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may attach to a general development permit
conditions relating to:
      (1)   Compliance with the plans and specifications submitted by the
developer to the Administrator.
      (2)   Time within which the development must be commenced or completed.
      (3)   Protective measures which a developer must undertake for the
benefit of neighboring property, such as the construction of fencing,
establishment of buffer areas or snow storage.
      (4)   Execution of a written development contract between the city and
the developer as such development contracts are defined in § 155.010.
   (B)   The Commission may attach to a special development permit conditions
which may concern any matter subject to regulation under this title, including
means for:
      (1)   Minimizing any adverse impact of the development upon other land,
including the hours of use and operation and the type and intensity of
activities which may be conducted.
      (2)   The sequence of development, including when it must be commenced
and completed.
      (3)   Controlling the duration of use of development and the time within
any structures must be removed.
      (4)   Assuring that development is maintained properly in the future.
      (5)   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      (6)   Establishing more detailed records by submission of drawings, maps,
plats or specifications.
      (7)   Executing a written development contract between the city and the
developer, as such development contracts are defined in § 155.010.
   (C)   The Commission may not condition a grant of a development permit on
the payment or conveyance by the developer of any money, land or other
property, except:
      (1)   The payment of the fees for the filing of the applications for
permits and certificates.
      (2)   Provision by the developer of street, other rights-of-way,
utilities, parks or other open space, but the required provision must be of a
quality and quantity no more than reasonable necessary for the proposed
development.
      (3)   Payment of an equivalent amount of money into a fund for the
provision of streets, other rights-of-way, utilities, parks or other open space
if the Commission finds that the provision thereof under division (C)(2) above
is not feasible.
      (4)   Creation or conveyance of interests in lands reasonably necessary
to effectuate the conditions authorized by division (C)(2) above.
      (5)   The acquisition by the developer of a performance bond.
      (6)   Other requirements as authorized in divisions (A) through (D) of
this section.
   (D)   The Commission may require a development contract before a general
development permit is issued. The Planning Commission shall submit a
recommended draft of each development contract to the City Council for its
approval before the contract is executed by either the City or the developer.
In this development contract, conditions may be attached relating to:
      (1)   Compliance with the plans and specifications submitted by the
developer to the Commission.
      (2)   Time within which the development must be commenced or completed.
      (3)   Protective measures which a developer must undertake for the
benefit of neighboring property such as construction of fencing and screening;
establishment of buffer areas, green belts and snow storage areas, provisions
for covered and screened garbage storage areas and replacement of displaced
trees.
      (4)   Necessary utility improvements required to service the development
such as water, sanitary and storm, electric lines, street, sidewalks, and
parking lots.
      (5)   The establishment of an escrow account with the city in an amount
approved by the city to be used to defray city administrative expense including
costs of planner, engineer, and attorney. Said administrative expense shall be
estimated by the administration and shall be in addition to the fee required
under §
155.224. Any excess remaining in the account on issuance of an occupancy permit
shall be returned to the developer.
      (6)   The establishment of a surety bond, certificate of deposit,
securities or other deposit prior to issuance of the development permit to be
used by the city to guarantee compliance with the development contract.
      (7)   An indemnity agreement to hold the city harmless against claims of
third parties arising from the work done, materials used by, or contractual
relations of the developer.
      (8)   Preparation of all preliminary and final plats necessary for the
performance of the development contract, and approval of the final plat by the
City Council.
   (E)   The Commission may require a development contract before a special
development permit is issued. The Planning Commission shall submit a
recommended draft of each development contract to the City Council for its
approval, before the contract is executed by either the city or the developer.
In such a development contract, conditions may be attached relating to:
      (1)   Minimizing any adverse impact of the development upon other land,
including the hours of use and operation and the type and intensity of
activities which may be conducted.
      (2)   The sequence of development, including when it must be commenced
and completed.
      (3)   Controlling the duration of use of development and the time within
any structure must be removed.
      (4)   Assuring that development is maintained properly in the future.
      (5)   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      (6)   Establishing more detailed records by submission of drawings, maps,
plats or specification.
      (7)   Protective measures which a developer must undertake for the
benefit of neighboring property such as construction of fencing and screening,
establishment of buffer areas, green belts and snow storage areas, provisions
for covered and screened garbage storage areas and replacement of displaced
trees.
      (8)   Necessary utility improvements required to service the development
such as water, sanitary and storm sewer, electric lines, street, sidewalks, and
parking lots.
      (9)   The establishment of an escrow account with the city in an amount
approved by the city to be used to defray city administrative expense including
costs of planner, engineer, and attorney. Said administrative expense shall be
estimated by the administration and shall be in addition to the fee required
under §
155.224. Any excess remaining in the account on issuance of an occupancy permit
shall be returned to the developer.
      (10)   The establishment of a surety bond, certificate of deposits
securities or other deposit prior to issuance of the development permit to be
used by the city to guarantee compliance with the development contract.
      (11)   An indemnity agreement to hold the city harmless against claims of
third parties arising from the work done, materials used by, or contractual
relations of the developer.
      (12)   Preparation of all preliminary and final plats necessary for the
performance of the development contract, and approval of the final plat by the
City Council.
('69 Code, § 7-25.08)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.168 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Requirement. All construction or work for which a permit is required
shall be subject to inspection by the Building Inspector and certain types of
construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors. A survey
of the lot may be required by the Building Inspector to verify compliance of
the structure with approved plans.
   (B)   Inspection record card. Work requiring a building permit shall not be
commenced until the permit holder or his agent shall have posted an inspection
record card in a conspicuous place on the front premises and in such position
as to allow the Building Inspector conveniently to make the required entries
thereon regarding the inspection of the work. This card shall be maintained in
such position by the permit holder until the certificate of occupancy has been
issued.
   (C)   Approvals required. No work shall be done on any part of the building
or structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without
first obtaining the written approval of the Building Inspector. Such written
approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made of each
successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections
required. There shall be a final inspection and approval on all buildings when
completed and ready for occupancy.
   (D)   Called inspections. No reinforcing steel or structural framework of
any part of any building or structure shall be covered or concealed in any
manner without first obtaining the approval of the Building Inspector. The
Building Inspector, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent,
shall make the following inspections of Type V buildings and shall either
approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the
permit holder or his agent wherein the same fails to comply with the law.
      (1)   Foundation inspection shall be made after trenches are excavated
and forms erected and when all materials for the foundation are delivered on
the job. When concrete from central mixing plant (commonly termed "transit
mixed") is to be used, materials need not be on the job.
      (2)   Frame inspection shall be made after the roof, all framing, fire-
blocking, and bracing are in place and all pipes, chimneys, and vents are
complete.
      (3)   Lath and/or wallboard inspection shall be made after all lathing
and/or wallboard, interior and exterior, is in place and all plastering
materials are delivered on the job, but before any plastering is applied or
before wallboard joints and fasteners are taped and finished.
      (4)   Final inspection shall be made after building is completed and
ready for occupancy.
   (E)   Other inspections. In addition to the called inspections specified
above, the Building Inspector may make or require any other inspections of any
construction work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of the SBC and
other laws. For the purpose of determining compliance the Building Inspector
may cause any structure to be reinspected.
   (F)   Special inspections.
      (1)   In addition to the inspections otherwise required, the owner or his
agent shall employ a special inspector who shall be present at all times during
construction on the following types of work:
         (a)   On concrete work when the design is based-on an "f'c" in excess
of 2,000 pounds.
         (b)   On masonry work when required.
         (c)   On all structural welding.
         (d)   On all cast-in-place reinforced gypsum concrete when it is being
mixed or deposited.
      (2)   On special construction or work involving unusual hazards or
requiring constant inspection there shall be a special inspector. The Building
Inspector may waive the requirement for the employment of a special inspector
if he finds that the construction or work is such that no unusual hazard
exists.
      (3)   The special inspector shall be a qualified person approved by the
Building Inspector. The special inspector shall furnish continuous inspection
on the construction and work requiring his employment. He shall report to the
Building Inspector in writing, noting all SBC violations and other information
as required of him.
      (4)   Special inspections shall not be required where the work is done on
the premises of a baricator approved by the Building Inspector to perform such
work without special inspection. The certificate of approval shall be subject
to revocation by the Building Inspector if it is found that any work done
pursuant to the approval is in violation of the SBC.
('69 Code, § 7-25.09)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.169 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or parcel, or part thereof hereafter developed until
a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued therefor by the Building
Inspector stating the proposed use conforms to the requirements of this title
Changes in the character, use of existing structure of a building shall also
require such a certificate of occupancy be issued. Any lawful conditions of
occupancy shall be attached to or referred to on the certificate.
   (B)   Applications and records. A certificate of occupancy should be applied
for coincident with an application for a building permit from the City Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector shall issue the certificate within five days
after inspection indicates satisfactory compliance with this title. A temporary
certificate may be issued for a period not to exceed six months during
alteration or partial occupancy of a building, or pending its completion. The
Administrator shall maintain records of all certificates of occupancy and a
copy shall be furnished upon request to any person. The certificate of
occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises; and shall not
be removed except by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Flood Hazard District. In the Flood Hazard District, the applicant
shall be required to submit certification by a registered engineer or architect
that the finished fill or building elevation, flood proofing or other flood
protection measures were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this
Ordinance. A registered land surveyor may certify fill and building
excavations.
('69 Code, § 7-25.10)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.170 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   In addition to those enumerated in the administrative provisions of the city
code, the Building Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Right of entry. Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building
Inspector or his duly authorized representative, may enter at reasonable times
any building, structure, or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed
upon him by this title.
   (B)   Stop orders. Whenever any building work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this title the Building Inspector may order the work stopped by
notice in writing served on any persons engaged in doing or causing such work
to be done, and any such person shall forthwith stop such work until authorized
by the Building Inspector to proceed with the work.
   (C)   Occupancy violations. Whenever any structure is being used contrary to
the provisions of this title the Building Inspector may order such use
discontinued and the structure or portion thereof vacated by notice served on
any person causing such use to be continued. Such person shall discontinue the
use within ten days after receipt of such notice or make the structure, or
portion thereof, comply with the requirements of this title.
   (D)   Liability. The Building Inspector, or any employee charged with the
enforcement of this title, acting for the city in good faith and without malice
in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable
personally and he is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage
that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or by
reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought
against the Building Inspector or employee because of such act or omission
performed by him in the enforcement of any provisions of this title, shall be
defended by the City Attorney until final determination thereof.
('69 Code, § 7-25.11)
§ 155.171 NON-PERMIT GENERAL DEVELOPMENT.
   Non-permit general development includes:
   (A)   Official signs installed by or at the direction of a governmental
unit.
   (B)   The removal of a hedge, fence or tree provided that such hedge, fence
or tree is not required by this chapter or the subdivision regulations of the
city.
   (C)   Clean earth fill of land outside of a flood hazard zone, wetland or
"S" District.
('69 Code, § 7-25.12)
SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.185 INTENT OF SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT FOR A CONDITIONAL USE.
   A conditional use is development which would not generally be appropriate
within a district but might be allowed in certain locations within the district
if specific requirements are met. The compatibility must be judged on the basis
of the particular circumstances and may require the imposing of conditions
before development or occupancy is permitted. The intent is to allow a
reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of a particular
development at a specific location.
('69 Code, § 7-26.01)
§ 155.186 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The City Council is empowered to grant a special development permit for a
conditional land use in all cases if the below requirements are met. The
Planning Commission shall have advisory power to the Council and the Council
shall act on the conditional use request as if it were an ordinance change (see
§
155.223). Other uses which require a permit are identified on the table,
SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS. (See Appendix E following this chapter.)
   (A)   Procedure. The requests for permit for a conditional use shall be
filed with the Administrator on an official application form and shall be
accompanied by the required fee and detailed written and graphic materials
fully explaining the proposed development (see §
155.162(A)). A hearing shall be conducted by the Commission as provided in §
155.164. Before acting on the request, the City Council shall receive a report
and recommendation from the Planning Commission. The Council shall make the
final decision upon each proposal to grant a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Commission shall consider possible adverse effects of
the proposed conditioned use and what additional requirements may be necessary
to reduce such adverse effects, (see §
155.167(B)). The Commission may recommend that the permit be denied. The
Council may then accept, reject, or modify the Commission's recommendation.
   (C)   Issuance and safeguards. The permit for a conditional use shall amend
the development permit and shall be attached thereto. In granting any
conditional use the Council may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards
in conformity with this title. The Commission may request that the city be
provided with a surety bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities,
or cash deposit prior to issuance of the conditional use permit. Said security
shall be used to guarantee compliance with the conditions of the permit and
shall be returned to the developer when an occupancy permit is issued.
   (D)   Certain existing uses. All existing commercial uses may be allowed as
a conditional use in any commercial or industrial district. An existing
industrial use may be allowed as a conditional use in the B-3 District and any
industrial district when the applicant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Commission that the use will be harmonious with other uses subject to this
section.
   (E)   Specific development standards. Permitted and conditional uses
identified in
Appendix J: Specific Development Standards shall be subject to the specific
development standards listed therein.
('69 Code, § 7-26.02) (Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-12-16; Am. Ord. 1125, passed
11-13-18)
§ 155.187 FLOOD HAZARD USE PERMITS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals is empowered to grant a special development
permit for a conditional use in accord with the provisions of the Flood Hazard
District and provisions of this section.
   (A)   Factors upon which the recommendation of the Board shall be based. In
passing upon conditional use applications, the Board shall consider all
relevant factors specified in other sections of this title;
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation system and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions.
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community.
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use.
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for the area.
      (10) The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      (11) The expected heights, velocity, duration rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
      (12) Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this title.
   (B)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purposes of this title, the Board may attach
such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits or variances as it
deems necessary to further the purposes of this title. Among such conditions
without limitation because of specific enumeration may be included:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.
      (2)   Limitations on period of use and operation.
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees and other protective measures.
      (5)   Flood proofing measures, in accordance with the State Building
Code. The Board shall require that the applicant submit a plan or document
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood
proofing measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation
and associated flood factors for the particular area.
      (6)   Inspection requirements stated in § 155.168 of this chapter.
      (7)   The unsafe buildings provisions of § 150.02.
      (8)   The Uniform Housing Code as adopted by reference in § 150.04.
('69 Code, § 7-26.03)
§ 155.188 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. The Council may permit development in specially planned areas
only in accordance with a precise plan. The planned unit development (PUD)
provisions are intended to encourage more efficient use of land and public
services and greater amenity by allowing under certain circumstances, a more
flexible means of land development and redevelopment than is otherwise
permissible under the lot-by-lot restrictions of each use district. The
uniqueness of a planned unit development may necessitate Council action
modifying or waiving certain provisions of the zoning code and subdivision
regulations. However, any Planned Unit Development District must be found to
agree with the intent of the Comprehensive Guide Plan. Planned unit development
is conceived for use primarily in two basic situations.
      (1)   Vacant land. Areas of substantial open land where strict
preregulation may limit good urban planning, may restrict the full achievement
of the Comprehensive Guide Plan or may not meet those changes in technology and
demand that would be consistent with the best interests of the entire city; and
in
      (2)   Built-up and aged areas. Areas of the city needing rehabilitation
and redevelopment, including areas which may be deficient in public facilities
and services, where it is believed that private investment should be encouraged
to contribute to that redevelopment; and in recognition that such necessary
redevelopment cannot be expected to take place in strict accordance with those
uniform regulations appropriate to more viable and established areas of the
city.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Ownership. A tract of land to be developed as a planned unit
development shall be under the control of:
         (a)   A single owner; or
         (b)   A group of land owners, acting through a corporation, where each
owner agrees in advance to be bound by the conditions and regulations which
will be effective within the district and to record such covenants, easements,
and other provisions with the County Registrar of Deeds.
      (2)   Designation. All planned unit development districts shall be so
designated and numbered in sequence.
      (3)   Size. In open land areas, no planned unit development district
shall be less than three acres. In built-up areas (areas that are occupied by
buildings or areas that are vacant or undeveloped but are surrounded to a major
extent by lands occupied by buildings) no planned unit development district
shall be less than 32,000 square feet.
      (4)   Permitted uses. A planned unit development may include a mixture of
residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional uses, or any combination
thereof, the extent of each use being determined by the type of PUD district
proposed and as hereinafter provided. Uses other than the principle type of use
by area permitted in the existing zone district or districts in which the land
proposed for such unit is located shall not occupy more than 33% of the land
area in the proposed PUD district, shall not result in undue adverse effect on
surrounding areas, and shall be consistent with the intent of this chapter and
the concept of the proposed PUD district.
      (5)   Objectives. The following objectives are sought.
         (a)   A maximum choice of living environments by allowing a variety of
housing and building types and permitting an increased density per acre and a
reduction in lot dimensions, yards, building setbacks and area requirements;
         (b)   A more useful pattern of open space and recreation areas and, if
permitted as part of the project, more convenience in the location of accessory
commercial uses and services;
         (c)   A development pattern which preserves and utilizes natural
topography and geologic features, scenic vistas, trees and other vegetation,
and prevents the disruption of natural drainage patterns;
         (d)   A more efficient use of land than is generally achieved through
conventional development resulting in substantial savings through shorter
utilities and streets;
         (e)   A development pattern in harmony with land use density,
transportation facilities, and community facilities objectives of the
comprehensive guide plan.
         (f)   Nonresidential developments planned as groups, developed in park
like surroundings with common ingress points and common parking, screened
loading, storage and parking areas, with areas for expansion and buffer areas
to adjacent lands which are fully landscaped.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Concept statement. The applicant shall submit a written statement
and sketch to the Administrator for preliminary approval in principal by the
Commission and the Council by resolution prior to the submission of a PUD
district rezoning application. The concept statement shall identify the
boundaries and be in sufficient detail to identify specific land uses,
population densities and building intensity; to suggest a compatible
relationship with surrounding uses, proposed circulation patterns (pedestrian
and vehicular), proposed parks, school sites and other open space: and the
tentative development schedule. The tentative written consent of all property
owners within the proposed PUD district shall be on file with the Administrator
before the staff shall commence review. Approval of the concept statement in
writing by the city shall be limited to the general acceptability of the land
uses proposed and their inter-relationships and shall not be construed to
endorse the precise location of uses, arrangement of structures or site
improvements or the economic or engineering feasibility of the proposal. The
final acceptance of land uses is subject to the following procedures.
      (2)   Preliminary plan, initiation and fee. After receiving approval of
the concept statement, the applicant shall submit to the Administrator an
application for a zoning amendment. The application shall be accompanied by a
plan showing the location and dimensions of the area, and information relating
to topography, access, surrounding land uses and if requested by the
Administrator, the applicant shall provide documents showing ownership. In the
case of projects to be executed in increments, a schedule showing the time
within which application for approval of the various parts are intended to be
filed shall be attached. The application shall be accompanied by the required
fee.
         (a)   Preparation of plans. The applicant is encouraged to have the
required documents and supporting evidence prepared and endorsed by a qualified
professional team consisting of a planner, qualified as a planner-in-charge by
the Minnesota Planning Agency, or a registered landscape architect, a
registered architect and if the planned unit development requires the
subdivision of land and the installation of public site improvements, a
registered land surveyor and registered civil engineer.
         (b)   Preliminary plat. The application and plan shall be accompanied
by a preliminary plan of any subdivision or addition included in the planned
unit development. He shall submit three copies of any such plat to the
Administrator. The preliminary plat shall contain the information and data, as
follows: The plat shall be drawn to scale and show:
            1.   The official description of the property to be platted.
            2.   Contour intervals of not more than two feet, and profile of
street grades.
            3.   The location of such surface features as property lines,
buildings, railroads, utilities, water courses, and similar items affecting the
development.
            4.   The location and size of such subsurface features as proposed
and existing or nearest available sanitary and storm sewers, water mains,
culverts, drain pipes or ditches, road surfacing and similar items.
            5.   A vicinity sketch or key map at a scale of not more than 200
feet to the inch, showing all existing subdivisions, streets, and tract lines
of acreage parcels, together with parcels of land within 300 feet of the outer
boundaries of the proposed subdivision. It shall also show how streets and
alleys in the proposed subdivision may connect with existing and proposed
streets and alleys in neighboring subdivisions or undeveloped property to
produce the most advantageous development of the entire neighboring area.
            6.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be
recorded, with the name of the owner and the subdivider; the north point,
scale, date, and name of landscape architect, surveyor or engineer. The scale
shall be 100' to the inch.
            7.   Any sites proposed for schools, parks, playgrounds; provisions
for major thoroughfares, etc., so that the time and manner of their dedication
to the city or school district may be considered or determined.
            8.   The zoning district in which the proposed subdivision is to be
placed.
            9.   Streets and thoroughfares, related to those adjacent.
      (3)   Preliminary plan and preliminary plat; Administrator. Upon receipt
of the application, plan and plat, the Administrator shall refer it to other
departments and agencies for review as to compliance with pertinent city
standards and regulations. Within 25 days the Administrator shall recommend to
the Commission approval of the proposal in the form submitted, or approval with
modifications or disapproval of the proposal. The recommendation of the
Administrator shall include findings of fact and shall set forth the reasons
for the recommendation specifying with particularity in what respect the plan
would or would not be in the public interest, including but not limited to the
following:
         (a)   The extent to which the plan or plat departs from zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property, including
but not limited to density, bulk and use, and the reasons why such departures
are or are not deemed to be in the public interest;
         (b)   The manner in which the plan or plat does or does not make
adequate provisions for public services, provide adequate control over
vehicular traffic, and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and
visual enjoyment;
         (c)   The nature and extent of open space, the reliability of the
proposals for maintenance and conservation of the common open space, and the
adequacy or inadequacy of the amount and function of the open space in terms of
the densities proposed in the plan;
         (d)   The relationship, beneficial or adverse, of the planned
development project upon the neighborhood in which it is proposed to be
established;
         (e)   In the case of a plan which proposes development over a period
of years, the sufficiency of the terms and conditions proposed to protect and
maintain the integrity of the plan;
         (f)   In built-up areas, the suitability of the proposed structures in
relation to existing structures to remain and anticipated future development of
the area;
         (g)   Conformity with all applicable provisions of this section and
the comprehensive guide plan.
      (4)   Preliminary plan, Commission. Within 30 days after the filing of
the application and after receiving the Administrator's report, the Commission
shall hold a public hearing on the application, (See § 155.164), ten days
notice of which shall be published in the local newspaper. Within 30 days after
such hearing, the Commission shall submit its recommendations to the Council.
The Commission may recommend tentative approval in whole or in part, with or
without modification, or recommend disapproval.
      (5)   Preliminary plan, Council. The Council shall either grant tentative
approval of the application, with or without modification, or deny such
application. The approval of the preliminary plan and, or, plat does not
constitute planned unit development, but is merely an authorization to proceed
with preparation of the final plan and, or, final plat or plats.
      (6)   Final plan. Upon tentative approval of the preliminary plan the
applicant shall submit a final plan with required modifications to the
Administrator within the time specified by the Council but in any case not more
than six months from the date of tentative approval. If the final plan is not
submitted within the allowed time, the tentative approval shall automatically
become void and the applicant must pay the fee and start the proceedings again.
      (7)   Final plat. Upon tentative approval of the preliminary plan and
preliminary plat or plats, the applicant shall submit a final plat of any
subdivision or addition included in the planned unit development. He shall
submit three copies of any such final plat to the Administrator within the time
specified by the Council, but in any case, not more than six months from the
date of tentative approval. If the final plat or plats are not submitted within
the allowed time, the tentative approval shall automatically become void and
the applicant must pay the fee and start the proceedings again.
         (a)   The applicant shall also submit four copies of a utility map,
properly locating water mains, telephone and electrical cables and lines. The
utility map shall be properly signed by the Manager of Utilities, Manager of
Gas Company, Manager of Telephone Company and City Engineer, or their properly
authorized agents.
         (b)   This final plat or plats is also subject to the provisions found
in § 154.24(B) of the subdivision regulations.
      (8)   Final approval. If the Administrator finds the final plan and plat
to be in substantial agreement with the actions of the Council he shall submit
the documents directly to the Council for final action; if not, he shall
identify such discrepancies in a letter of transmittal to the Council. The
Council shall consider the final plan and plat at a public hearing. If approved
by the Council, the area of land involved shall be redesignated as a Planned
Unit Development District by ordinance and such ordinance shall incorporate the
plan, including any conditions or restrictions that may be imposed by the
Council. Such approval and the date thereof shall be noted on any final plat or
plats and utility maps submitted, over the signature of the Council. The
Council may condition its approval of the Planned Unit Development District
upon the conditions stated in § 155.167(A) and (B).
   (D)   Effect of approval. The final plan as approved together with the
conditions and restrictions imposed, shall constitute the zoning and
subdivision control for the district; provided that general zoning regulations
which were applicable to the land involved prior to approval of the plan and
which are not inconsistent with the plan shall continue to be applicable.
   (E)   Building permit restricted. No building permit shall be issued for any
structure within the district unless and until the Administrator certifies that
it conforms to the provisions of the plan and other applicable zoning
requirements including the issuance of a development permit.
('69 Code, § 7-26.04)
§ 155.189 SHOPPING CENTER, INDUSTRIAL PARK OR MAJOR INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Conformance required. When the Administrator finds the primary purpose
of the PUD is to provide for a multiple occupancy retail sales and/or service
facility or provide for a multiple building industrial or institutional group,
the 33% limitation of § 155.188(B)(4) shall not apply. However, the development
shall be found to agree with the intent of the Comprehensive Guide Plan.
   (B)   Required information. Such development shall be accompanied by
information concerning ownership of lands involved, proposals for financing and
such other material as may be necessary to demonstrate that the proposal is a
bona fide move for actual development and not merely to secure special
advantage.
   (C)   Required plans. The developer shall provide the city with a full set
of dimensional plans locating buildings, parking areas, loading areas,
landscaping provisions, auto and pedestrian ingress and circulation, exterior
lighting, traffic signals, fencing, drainage, utilities and signs (see §
155.188(C)(2)). A perspective rendering may be required.
   (D)   Edge requirement. Indication of the site planning relationships at
edges of the PUD must show how mutual protection of the PUD and its
surroundings is to be made. Matters to be covered include access point, yards,
screening and buffering, height limitations and nuisance avoidance.
   (E)   Completion time. The proposal shall indicate that development of a
major portion of the PUD shall be completed within the first building season.
If the indicated first stage is not completed by the second building season,
the Administrator may cancel all permits and require demolition of buildings or
work partially completed.
   (F)   Estimated administrative costs escrowed. The developer shall establish
an escrow account with the city to defray administrative costs. The costs of
the planner, City Engineer and Attorney relating to the administration of this
section shall be paid from this escrow account before the development permit is
issued. The administrative costs shall be estimated by the administration and
shall be in addition to the fee required under §
155.224. Any excess remaining in the account on issuance of a occupancy permit
shall be returned to the developer.
   (G)   Required reports. Before the Commission shall make its recommendation
to the Council, the following activities shall be required:
      (1)   The Administrator shall review and submit a written report on the
proposed development as shown on their rendering and plans,
      (2)   The City Engineer shall review the development in respect to
drainage and traffic and he shall submit a written report.
      (3)   The City Attorney shall find that the proposed development complies
with the city code.
      (4)   The Fire Department shall review the proposed development and
report if fire protection would require amendments to the plans.
   (H)   Performance bond. A performance bond may be required by the city.
('69 Code, § 7-26.05)
§ 155.190 INTERIM USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent in allowing interim uses is to allow a use for a
limited period of time that reasonably utilizes the property in a manner not
permitted in the applicable zoning district or is not a part of the long-term
plan as set forth in the Comprehensive Guide; and to allow a use that is
presently acceptable but that, with anticipated development, will not be
acceptable in the future.
   (B)   Application. The application, public hearing, public notice and
procedure requirements for an interim use permit shall be the same as those for
conditional use permits as provided in §
155.186.
   (C)   Standards. The Planning Commission shall recommend an interim use
permit and the Council shall issue such interim use permits only if it finds
that such use at the proposed location:
      (1)   Conforms to all other applicable zoning regulations and meets the
standards of a conditional use permit set forth in other sections of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Will terminate upon a date or event that can be identified with
certainty.
      (3)   Will not impose additional costs on the public if it is necessary
for the public to take the property in the future; and
      (4)   The owner agrees to any conditions that the City Council has deemed
appropriate for permission of the use, including, but not limited to a
condition that the owner will provide a financial surety, in an amount
determined by the City Council, to cover the cost of removing the interim use
and any interim structures upon expiration of the interim use permit.
   (D)   Termination. An interim use permit shall terminate upon the occurrence
of any of the following events, whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit; or
      (2)   A violation of conditions under which the permit was issued, or
      (3)   A change in the city's zoning regulations which renders the use
nonconforming,
      (4)   The use has been discontinued for a minimum of six months.
(Ord. 824, passed 7-8-96; Am. Ord. 1044, passed 7-11-11)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 155.200 INTENT.
   Where the districts established contain structures and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this title was passed or amended, but which
would be prohibited, it is the intent to permit these nonconformities to
continue, subject tot he provisions of this title, but not to encourage their
survival.
('69 Code, § 7-27) (Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02)
§ 155.201 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   No nonconforming use of land shall be enlarged, increased or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
this title. No nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of this title. The following uses existing at the time of
passage of this title are to be conforming: any use owned by a public agency,
semi-public uses such as a church, public or church school, railroad tracks and
public utility structure.
   (B)   Forfeiture by non-use. No nonconforming use of land structure shall
continue if it is discontinued for 12 consecutive months; any use thereafter
shall be a use permitted in the zoning district.
   (C)   Change in use. Any nonconforming use of land may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same nature, or to a more restricted use, or to a
conforming use. A change to a more restricted use or to another nonconforming
use may be made only if a conditional use permit is obtained. In addition to
the other requirements of a CUP, such permit will be granted only if the
relation of the land to surrounding property is such that it will not adversely
affect neighboring property and/or it’s occupants to any greater degree than if
the original nonconforming land use had continued. Once changed to a conforming
use, no parcel of land shall be permitted to revert to a nonconforming use.
('69 Code, § 7-27.01) (Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-
12-16) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.202 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   No nonconforming use of a structure may extend to any part of the structure
which was not manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption of this title; and no such use shall be extended to occupy any land
outside the structure. Moreover, said structure shall not be enlarged,
extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except for
a permitted use.
   (A)   Forfeiture by non-use. No nonconforming use of a structure shall
continue if it is discontinued for 12 consecutive months; any use thereafter
shall be a use permitted in the zoning district.
   (B)   Change in use. If no structural alterations are made, any
nonconforming use of structure may be changed to another nonconforming use of
the same nature, or to a more restricted use, or to a conforming use. A change
to a more restricted use or to another nonconforming use may be made only if a
conditional use permit is obtained. In addition to the other requirements of a
CUP, such permit will be granted only if the relation of the land to
surrounding property is such that will not adversely affect neighboring
property and/or it’s occupants to any greater degree than if the original
nonconforming use had continued. Once changed to a conforming use, no structure
shall be permitted to revert to a non- conforming use.
   (C)   Repairs and maintenance. On any building devoted in whole or in part
to any nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive
months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of the current
replacement value of the building, provided that the cubic content of the
building as it existed at the time of the effective date of this title shall
not be increased.
('69 Code, § 7-27.02) (Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02; Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-
12-16) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.203 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   A nonconforming structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Enlargement or alteration. No nonconforming structure may be enlarged
or altered in any way which increases its nonconformity.
   (B)   Damage or destruction. If a nonconforming structure is destroyed by
any means to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost exclusive of
foundations, at time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in
conformity with this title. However, in the Flood Hazard District, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may issue a conditional use permit for reconstruction if the
structure is located outside of the floodway, is a permitted use in the
underlying zoning district and upon reconstruction, is adequately floodproofed,
elevated or otherwise protected in conformity with §
155.187(B)(1) through (8).
   (C)   Relocation. If a nonconforming structure is moved for any reason for
any distance, whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (D)   Building safety. Nothing contained in this title shall be deemed to
prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition charged with
protecting the public safety, upon order of such official.
('69 Code, § 7-27.03) (Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-12-16) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.204 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Nonconforming lots. Any conforming use or conforming structure on a
nonconforming lot may be enlarged, extended, constructed or moved so long as
other requirements of this title are met.
   (B)   Division of combined nonconforming lots. Any two or more lots under
the same ownership and with continuous frontage at the date of this title shall
not be used or sold in a manner which diminishes possible compliance with this
title.
   (C)   Dwelling on any lot of record. Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, a single family detached dwelling may be erected at any time on any
lot which was of official record by deed or plat and separately owned on
October 10, 1962, located in a residence district irrespective of its area or
width, provided the applicable yard and other open space requirements are
complied with. The minimum yard space requirements of the district in which
said lot is located shall apply. Front, side or rear yard encroachments as
specified in § 155.040(F) shall be prohibited in the case of substandard lots
of record and the yard width of such lots shall be measured from the edge of
any projection or overhang to the lot line. Lots may also be subject to the
provisions of § 155.040(B).
('69 Code, § 7-27.04) (Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.205 NONCONFORMING CHARACTERISTICS OF USE.
   (A)   Generally. Characteristics of a land use, such as lighting, off-street
parking, buffering, signs, or other regulations pertaining to the use of land
that were not in existence at the time of the adoption or amendment of this
title shall be considered a nonconforming characteristic of use. No
nonconforming characteristic of use shall be required to comply with the
provisions of this title unless a land use change, or the (re)construction and/
or expansion of a structure increases the nonconformity of the characteristic.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Signs existing on the effective date of this chapter which do not
conform to the regulations set forth in this chapter and in Chapter 153 shall
be considered nonconforming. Advertising signs which become nonconforming uses
shall be removed within three years after the effective date of this chapter or
otherwise be relocated to comply with all the provisions of this chapter and of
Chapter 153.
      (2)   Business signs on the premises of a nonconforming structure or use
may be continued but such signs shall not expand in area, height or
illumination. New signs not to exceed 35 square feet in aggregate sign area may
be erected only upon the complete removal of all other signs existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter. Such new signs may be illuminated but no
flashing, rotating or moving sign shall be permitted.
      (3)   No sign erected before the passage of this chapter shall be
rebuilt, altered or moved to a new location without being brought into
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and of Chapter 153.
   (C)   Off-street parking. The purpose of this section shall be to reduce the
requirements for off-street parking and loading when development occurs on
parcels of land which are lawfully nonconforming as described in §§ 155.200
through 155.206. For the purpose of this section, development shall be defined
as a change in use which increases the nonconformity of this section and/or the
(re)construction and/or expansion of a structure.
      (1)   Applicability. This section shall not be applicable to any parcel
of land which is in violation of § 155.042. Parcels of land which are lawfully
nonconforming as described in §§ 155.200 through 155.206 shall not be
considered to be in violation.
      (2)   Number required. To fulfill the purpose of this section, the number
of required off-street parking and loading stalls shall be equal to the number
of stalls existing immediately prior to the proposed development, plus 50% of
the parking deficiency existing at the time of the proposed development, plus
the number of stalls required by the new development.
         (a)   As used in this section, the parking deficiency shall mean the
number of off-street parking and loading stalls required by Table 2 less the
number of stalls currently provided.
         (b)   In cases where the use is vacant at the time of development, the
calculation of the existing parking deficiency shall be based on the most
recent non-vacant use.
         (c)   In no event shall the number of parking and loading stalls
required under this section exceed the parking requirement as indicated by
Table 2.
('69 Code, § 7-27.05) (Ord. 610, eff. 8-27-79; Am. Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.206 NONCONFORMING JUNK YARDS.
   No junk yard may continue as a nonconforming use for more than one year
after the effective date of this title except that a junk yard may continue as
a nonconforming use if within that period it is completely enclosed within a
building, fence, screen platting or other device is to be erected and
maintained in accordance with
§ 155.043 of this chapter. Plans of such building or device shall be approved
by the Planning Commission and the City Council before it is erected or put
into place.
(Ord. 942, passed 10-14-02)
Penalty, see § 155.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.215 DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Designation. There is hereby established the office of Development
Administrator or Planner, hereinafter referred to as Administrator. ('69 Code,
§ 7-24.01)
   (B)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the Administrator to properly
administer and enforce this title according to the rules as may be henceforth
adopted by the Commission and by the Board. In addition thereto and in
furtherance of said authority, the Administrator shall:
      (1)   Serve as an ex-officio non-voting member of the Commission and the
Board.
      (2)   Receive, review, analyze and develop written reports on all
application for permits, certificates, appeals, variances, amendments or other
development matters.
      (3)   Issue permits when the requirements of this title have been met and
make and maintain records thereof.
      (4)   Coordinate official development review processes among governmental
offices to the extent feasible.
      (5)   Conduct inspections to determine compliance with the terms of this
title and to take remedial action when required.
      (6)   Prior to granting a use permit or processing an application for a
conditional use permit or variance in the Flood Hazard District, the
Administrator shall determine whether the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits. (i.e. M.S. § 105.42, U.S. Corps of Engineers and all
other applicable local, state and federal permits.)
      (7)   In the Flood Hazard District, the Administrator shall maintain a
record of the elevation of the first floor (including basement) of all new
structures or additions to existing structures. He shall also maintain a record
of the elevations to which structures or additions to structures are flood
proofed.
('69 Code, § 7-24.02)
   (C)   Methods of enforcement. Upon finding that any of the provisions of
this title are being violated or upon finding a condition which may lead to a
violation, the Administrator shall notify in writing the persons responsible
for such violation or condition, ordering the action necessary to correct such
condition or violation. He may order discontinuance of illegal work being done,
order discontinuance of illegal use of structures and land and order removal of
illegal structures or additions. Further, he may take any other action
authorized by this title to ensure compliance with or to prevent violations of
this title, including, but not limited to, calling upon the City Attorney to
institute legal proceedings and calling upon the Chief of Police for
assistance. ('69 Code, § 7-24.03)
   (D)   Resumption of work. When any work shall have been stopped for any
reason whatsoever, it shall not again be resumed until the reason for the work
stoppage has been completely removed and written approval to proceed has been
received from the Administrator. ('69 Code, § 7-24.04)
Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.216 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustment, referred to as the Board, is
hereby established. The Planning Commission shall sit as the Board of Zoning
Appeals and Adjustment when allowed and/or required to by law.
   (B)   The Chairman of the Planning Commission shall serve as Chairman of the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustment. Such Chairman, or in his absence the
Vice-Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairman and at such
times as the Board may determine. There shall be a fixed place of meeting and
all meetings shall be open to the public. The presence of a majority of members
shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. It shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record. (Ord. 643, eff. 8-10-81)
   (C)   Subject to the approval of the City Council, the Board may employ such
clerical and technical assistance as may be needed to carry on its work. It
shall have the power to call upon any city official or department for
assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of any
such official or department to render such assistance as may be reasonably
expected.
   (D)   The Board shall from time to time, subject to the approval of the City
Council, adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry
into effect the provisions of this title.
   (E)   The Board shall decide all appeals and requests for variance within 30
days after the date of the required hearing thereon. A certified copy of the
Board's decision shall be transmitted to the applicant and to the
Administrator. Such decisions shall be binding upon the Administrator and
observed by him, and he shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the same
in the permit to the applicant or appellant, whenever a permit is authorized by
the Board.
('69 Code, § 7-28.01)
§ 155.217 POWERS OF BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an error
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Administrator
or Commission in the enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of the
ordinance in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration, and to grant such variances only when it is demonstrated that
such actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of the ordinance.
The Board may not permit as a variance any use that is not permitted under the
ordinance for property in the zone where the affected person's land is located.
The Board may permit as a variance the temporary use of a one family dwelling
as two family dwelling. The Board may impose conditions in the granting of
variances to insure compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
('69 Code, § 7-28.02)
§ 155.218 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals by any person or persons aggrieved or by any public officer,
department, board, bureau, corporation or others affected by any decision of
the Administrator or Commission shall be taken to the Board. Such appeal shall
be taken within 14 calendar days after such decision, as provided by the rules
of the Board, by filing with the Administrator a notice of appeal, and
specifying the grounds thereof. The Administrator shall then transmit to the
Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken.
   (B)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Administrator certifies to the Board, after filing the notice
of appeal with them, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such case,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, granted
by a Court of Record, upon notice to the Administrator and on due cause shown.
The final disposition of any appeal shall be in the form of a resolution by the
Board whether reversing, modifying or confirming the decision of the
Administrator.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing by publication
in the official newspaper at least seven days prior to said hearing, as well as
written notice to the Chairman of the Planning Commission and appellant. At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or through an agent or attorney. The
Board shall decide the application or appeal within a reasonable time.
   (D)   The concurring vote of the majority of voting members present shall be
necessary to approve, modify or reverse any decision or action of the
Administrator or Commission.
   (E)   Any party may appeal any decision of the Board by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Council within seven calendar days of the Board's
decision. The Council by a 4/5 vote may alter, revise, or rescind said
decision. No permit shall be issued until the time for appeal has expired.
('69 Code, § 7-28.03)
§ 155.219 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board may authorize a variance where the exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or unusual shape of a specific piece of property on the effective
date of this title, or by reason of exceptional topographic conditions, or
other extraordinary situation or condition of such piece of property, or of the
use or development of property immediately adjoining the piece in question, the
literal enforcement of the requirements of this title would involve unnecessary
hardship and not mere inconvenience.
   (B)   (1)   Application for any variance permissible under this title shall
be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustment, in the form of a written
application for a development permit. All applications shall be accompanied by
a list of the names and addresses of the owners of the lands abutting directly
on the property described in the application.
      (2)   Application for any variance permissible under this title shall be
made to the Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustment, in the form of a written
application for a development permit. All applications shall be accompanied by
a list of the names and addresses of the owners of the lands within 350 feet of
the property described in the application.
      (3)   After a public hearing has been held, the Board of Zoning Appeals
and Adjustment shall thereupon make its decision upon the application.
      (4)   In deciding on any adjustment or variance under the provisions of
this section, the Board shall designate such conditions in connection therewith
as will, in its opinion, secure the requirements of division (C) below of this
section. The Board shall put its decision in writing stating pertinent facts
and findings, and shall specifically and fully set forth any adjustment or
variance granted, and conditions designated.
      (5)   Any party may appeal the Board's decision upon a variance by filing
a notice of appeal with the City Council within seven calendar days of the
Board's decision. The Council by a 4/5 vote may alter, revise, or rescind the
Board's decision. No permit shall be issued until the time for appeal has
expired. When an appeal is filed with the Council, the written decision of the
Board shall be transmitted to the Council.
      (6)   If the development proposed to be done pursuant to an approved
variance has not begun within 12 months of the date of approval of the variance
application or if the work lies idle for a period of 12 months or more or if
the work has not been substantially completed within 18 months of the date of
approval of the variance application, said variance shall be revoked by the
Board and written notice thereof shall be given to the person affected. Said
notice shall state the basis for the revocation and shall state that further
development as proposed in the variance application shall not proceed unless a
new variance is granted following re-application or unless the Zoning Board
shall grant an extension. Application for an extension must be made within ten
days of the date of the notice. The Board may grant an extension for up to six
months as to any of the bases for revocation. The Board may grant only one
extension to the owner or his or her successor in interest of property to which
the variance was granted. This division (6) shall be applicable to any variance
granted after the effective date of this division.
   (C)   No variance from the terms of this title shall be authorized unless
all of the following facts and conditions exist:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the property in question or to the intended use of the
property, that do not apply generally to other properties or classes of uses in
the same zoning district.
      (2)   That the alleged difficulty or hardship has not resulted from the
actions of the applicant.
      (3)   That such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of substantial property rights possessed by other properties in the same zoning
district and in the same vicinity.
      (4)   That the authorizing of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to adjacent property, and will not materially impair the purposes of
this title or the public interest.
      (5)   No variance shall be authorized unless the Board specifically finds
that the condition, situation, or intended use of the subject property, is not
so general or recurrent in nature as to make reasonably practicable the
formulation of a general regulation to cover such cases.
   (D)   The Board may adopt specific rules and regulations from time to time
and place them on public record in the office of the City Clerk. Section
155.218(D) and (E) shall also apply to request for variances.
('69 Code, § 7-28.04) (Am. Ord. 926. passed 11-13-01; Am. Ord. 964, passed 5-
10-04)
§ 155.220 LIMITATIONS ON POWERS.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance or the
zoning map. No member of the Board shall hear or vote upon an appeal or
variance in which he is directly or indirectly interested in a personal or
financial way.
   (B)   The Board shall find that the variance is the minimum variance that
will make possible the reasonable use of the land, building or structure.
('69 Code, § 7-28.05)
§ 155.221 FEES FOR VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   A fee shall be paid to the City Clerk at the time a notice of appeal or a
request for variance is filed.
('69 Code, § 7-28.06)
§ 155.222 VARIANCE AND APPEAL PROVISIONS FOR SPECIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Flood Hazard District.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Board of zoning Appeals to administer
the provisions of § 152.52.
      (2)   No variance shall:
         (a)   Have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in
that district.
         (b)   Permit a lower degree of flood protection than the flood
protection elevation for that particular area.
         (c)   Permit standards lower than those required by state Law.
      (3)   In the Flood Hazard District, the Commissioner of Natural Resources
must receive a copy of an application for a variance at least ten days prior to
the hearing on said variance. A copy of decisions granting a variance in a
Flood Hazard District shall be forwarded to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources within ten days of such action.
('69 Code, § 7-28.07)
   (B)   Shoreland District. In the Shoreland District, the Commissioner of
Natural Resources must receive a copy of a hearing notice for a variance at
least ten days prior to the hearing on said variance. A copy of decisions
granting a variance in a Shoreland District shall be forwarded to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of such action. ('69 Code, §
7-28.08)
§ 155.223 DISTRICT BOUNDARY CHANGES AND TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Council may amend. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general
welfare or good zoning practice require, the Council may by ordinance, after
recommendation thereon by the Commission, amend the regulations or change
district boundaries. It shall be the duty of the Commission to submit to the
Council its recommendations regarding all applications for amendments or
changes within 60 days after referral to the Commission. ('69 Code, § 7-29.01)
   (B)   Initiation. An amendment or change may be initiated by motion of the
Council, by motion of the Commission or in the case of district boundary
changes, by filing an application therefore by one or more of the owners of
property within the area proposed to be changed. ('69 Code, § 7-29.02)
   (C)   Application. Application for any change of district boundaries shall
be submitted to the Administrator, with a copy to the Council through the City
Clerk, upon such forms and accompanied by such data and information as is
needed to assure the fullest practicable presentation of facts. When an
amendment involves changes on district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, such data shall include a map drawn to scale of not less than
200 feet to the inch showing the land in question, the length and location of
each boundary thereof, and the location and principal use of all properties
within 350 feet of such land. Applications signed by an owner of property
within the area proposed to be re-classified, shall attest to the truth and
correctness of all information presented with the application. ('69 Code, § 7-
29.03) (Am. Ord. 830, passed 3-10-97)
   (D)   Flood hazard application. The flood hazard designation on the zoning
map shall not be removed unless it can be shown that the areas are filled to an
elevation at or above the flood protection elevation for the particular area
and are contiguous to other lands lying outside the district. All amendments to
this title affecting the flood hazard provisions, including amendments to the
Flood Hazard District on the official zoning map, must be submitted to and
approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to adoption. ('69 Code,
§ 7-29.04)
   (E)   Administrator - recommendations. The Administrator shall review the
proposed amendment to the regulations or change in district boundaries and
render a report thereon analyzing the advantages and disadvantages of the
proposal. He shall recommend to the Commission approval, denial, or
modification of said amendment or boundary changes on the basis of the facts
and circumstances, the Comprehensive Guide Plan and other information.
   (F)   Commission action.
      (1)   Notices. Before submitting its recommendations on any amendment to
the regulations or change in district boundaries to the Council, the Commission
shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, as provided in § 155.164. When
an amendment involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, notice shall also be posted on the affected property.
      (2)   Recommendations. Following such hearing and review of the planner's
report, the Commission shall prepare and transmit a written recommendation to
the Council.
('69 Code, § 7-29.06) (Am. Ord. 830, passed 3-10-97)
   (G)   Council - final action. After reviewing the recommendation of the
Commission thereon, the Council shall consider such recommendations and if it
decides to proceed shall instruct the City Attorney to prepare an ordinance for
subsequent adoption by the Council of the proposed amendment or the district
boundary change by a vote of two-thirds of all its members. ('69 Code, § 7-
29.07)
   (H)   Map change pending. Whenever an application has been filed or a motion
has been approved by the Commission or the Council for a change or amendment of
the zoning map from a less restricted district to a more restricted district
classification, a development permit or building permit may not be issued
within 90 days from the date of such filing or motion which would authorize the
construction of a building or the establishment of a use which would become
nonconforming under the contemplated redistricting plan. ('69 Code, § 7-29.08)
   (I)   Shoreland District amendments. Copies of all public hearing notices to
consider amendments in the Shoreland District shall be sent to and received by
the Commissioner of Natural Resources at least ten days prior to such hearings.
Copies of decisions granting amendments shall be received by the Commissioner
of Natural Resources within ten days after final action. ('69 Code, § 7-29.09)
§ 155.224 ZONING FEE SCHEDULE.
   Zoning fees shall be assessed for work governed by this title with the fee
schedule established from time to time by resolution of the City Council. Such
fees shall be non-refundable.
(Ord. 1077, passed 1-13-14)
§ 155.225 REMEDIES.
   In case of any violation of this title or any amendment or supplement
thereto, any person aggrieved by such action may request the Council or Zoning
Administrator to act in his behalf to prevent unlawful development; to
restrain, correct, or abate such violations; to prevent the occupancy of a
building, structure or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business
or use in or about such premises. Such procedures shall not limit taking action
in a court of law.
('69 Code, § 7-31)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
Chapters 151 through 155, or any amendment or supplement thereto, where no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not to exceed $100. Each and every day during which such
violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
('69 Code, § 7-32)
   (B)   Anyone violating any of the provisions of § 155.126 shall be guilty of
an offense punishable by a fine of not more than $100 and/or commitment to a
jail for a period not to exceed 90 days. Each month during which compliance is
delayed shall constitute a separate offense.
('69 Code, § 7-17.07, Subd. 10)
APPENDIX A: TABLE 1. SCHEDULE OF DENSITY, AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS
TABLE 1: SCHEDULE OF DENSITY, AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS
(lineal dimensions are in feet; area dimensions are in square feet)
(text provisions take precedence over regulations in the table)
ZONING DISTRICTS
 RESIDENTIAL                      BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
 R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6F R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I S TZ L
ZONING DISTRICTS
          RESIDENTIAL                                               BUSINESS              INDUSTRIAL   OTHER
          R-1    R-2    R-3    R-4     R-5     R-6F   R-7    R-8    B-1   B-2   B-3    B- M-1   M-2    I       S      TZ      L
                                                                                       4
For
Dwellings
Minimum   7,500A 6,000B 6,000B 12,000C 20,000C 5,000  5,000  7,500A 8,000 6,000 —    ——   —    6,000   —    435,600 —
Lot Area
Minimum   75     60     50     100     150     403    50     75     50    50    —    ——   —    50      —    200     —
Lot Width
Minimum
Front     30     20     20     15      20      20     15     30     15    15    —    ——   —    30      —    30      4
Yard
Minimum   30     20     20     20      30      20     20     30     20    20    —    ——   —    30      —    30      —
Rear Yard
Minimum                                                                                                                       10
Side Yard 10     8      8D     10E     15      10     8      10J    4     4     —    ——   —    10      —    10      or
                                                                                                                              5H
For Other
Uses
Minimum   12,000 12,000 6,000  12,000  20,000  12,000 12,000 12,000 4,000 2,000 10,000 —7,500 10,000 174,240 10,000 435,600 —
Lot Area
Minimum   100    100    50     100     150     100    100    100    50    20    50     —100   200    100     100    200     —
Lot Width
Minimum
Front     35     25     20     20      25      20     20     35     15    —   50I    50 25    25     35      25     35      —
Yard
Minimum   30     20     20     20      20      20     20     30     10    —   10     50 10    10     20      10     10      —
Rear Yard
Minimum   20     10     8      10      15      10     10     20     10    —   10     30 10    10     10      10     —     —
Side Yard
For All
Uses
Minimum   24     24     24     24      24      —    24     24     —   —   —    30 —   —    —     —    —     —
Width
Maximum
Height    30     30     30     40      —     24     24     30     70    70    70     70 70    70     70      70     70      8
(in feet)
(in       2.5    2.5    2.5    3.5     —     —    2.5    2.5    —   —   —    ——   —    —     —    —     1G
stories)
Maximum
Lot       40%    40%    40%    40%     60%     50%    40%           —   —   —    ——   —    —     —    —     —
Coverage
Minimum
Floor     940    850    850    850     850     500    850    940    —   —   —    ——   —    —     —    —     —
Area
Minimum
Required
Front     60%    60%    60%    60%     60%     60%    60%    60%    —   —   —    ——   —    —     —    —     —
Yard
Green
Space
A   7,500 for single family, 14,000 for two family, and 6,000 per unit for 3 or more units.
B   6,000 for single family, 11,000 for two family, and 5,000 per unit for 3 or more units.
C   6,000 for single family and 9,000 for two family.
D   If the lot width is less than 80 feet, then the property owner shall comply with the 8 foot minimum side yard, or the
following minimum side yard: the combined minimum side yard shall be no less than 25% of the lot width. The minimum side yard
may be allocated in such a way so that no side yard is less than 10% of the lot width. In no event may any side yard have a
width of less than 5 feet.
E   If the lot width is less than 100 feet, then the property owner shall comply with the 10 foot minimum side yard, or the
following minimum side yard: the combined minimum side yard shall be no less than 25% of the lot width. The minimum side yard
may be allocated in such a way so that no side yard is less than 10% of the lot width. In no event may any side yard have a
width of less than 5 feet.
F   See mobile home lot requirements at §
155.123.
G   No portion of the main floor shall be higher than 2 feet below the center of the road in front of the building to be
constructed.
H   5 feet for lots 17-P to 16-O
I   The setback shall be 30 feet when a property fronts on a service road. The setback may be reduced to 25 feet, provided the
parking area for the use is located behind the front building line of the structure and the future thoroughfare plan does not
indicate a need for additional right-of-way acquisition in front of the proposed building (§
155.086(B)(3)(d)).
J   If the lot width is less than 80 feet, then the property owner shall comply with the 10- foot minimum side yard, or the
following minimum side yard: the combined minimum side yard shall be no less than 20% of the lot width. In no event may any side
yard have a width of less than 5 feet.
 
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 1) (Am. Ord. 830, passed 3-10-97; Am. Ord. 846,
passed 9-8-97; Am. Ord. 1004, passed 8-13-07; Am. Ord. 1168, passed 3-22-21;
Am. Ord. 1175, passed 9-13-2021; Am. Ord. 1187, passed 10-12-22)
APPENDIX B: TABLE 2. SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES
                                                                    Number of Parking  Number of Loading
                                                                    Spaces Required    Spaces Required
Use Classification                                                  Per Unit of        Per Unit of Floor
                                                                    Measurement        Area
                                                                    Number    Unit  Number    Floor
                                                                                              Area
Residential
                                                                           existing
                                                                           dwelling
   Dwelling, 1 & 2 family (including mobile home)                1.0    unit        -         -
                                                                    2.0    new         -         -
                                                                           dwelling
                                                                           unit
                                                                           dwelling           if over
   Dwelling, multi-family                                        1.5    unit        1.0    20,000 sq.
                                                                                              ft.
                                                                           dwelling
                                                                           unit,
                                                                           except that
                                                                           at the sole
                                                                           discretion
                                                                           of the             if over
   Dwelling, multi-family which is specifically designed for and 1.0    Planning    1.0    20,000 sq.
exclusively occupied by persons 60 years of age or older                   Commission         ft.
                                                                           it may be
                                                                           reduced to
                                                                           0.5 spaces
                                                                           per
                                                                           dwelling
                                                                           unit
                                                                           dwelling or
   Guest, Boarding or Lodging House                              1.0    lodging     -         -
                                                                           unit
                                                                                              if over
   Fraternity/Sorority House or Dormitory                        1.0    2 occupants 1.0    10,000 sq.
                                                                                              ft.
                                                                                              5,001 -
                                                                                              50,000 sq.
   Motel or Hotel                                                1.0    sleeping    1.0    ft.
                                                                           unit        2.0    if over
                                                                                              50,000 sq.
                                                                                              ft.
Educational, Cultural and Institutional
   Auditorium, Church, Temple, or other place of assembly        1.0    4 seats             
   Public Library, Art Gallery, Museum, etc.                     1.0    300 sq. ft.         
                                                                           floor area         
   Elementary School, Nursery School, and Day Care Center        1.0    employee           
                                                                           employee           
                                                                    1.0    5 students         
                                                                    plus   or                5,001 -
   Junior and Senior High School and College                     1.0    5 seats in        50,000 sq.
                                                                    1.0    auditorium, 1.0    ft.
                                                                           whichever   2.0    if over
                                                                           is greaterA        50,000 sq.
   Convalescence or Nursing Home                                 1.0    3 beds             ft.
   Hospital                                                      1.5    bed
                                                                 Number of        Number of Loading
                                                                 Parking Spaces   Spaces Required
                                                                 Required Per     Per Unit of Floor
Use Classification                                               Unit of          Area
                                                                 Measurement
                                                                 Number    UnitNumber    Floor
                                                                                         Area
   Bowling Alley                                              5.0    bowling
                                                                        lane              
   Funeral Home                                               1.0    4 seats          5,001 -
                                                                        300 sq.         100,000 sq.
   Office, Bank or Public Administration                      1.0    ft. floor 1.0    ft.
                                                                        area      2.0    if over
                                                                        service          100,000 sq.
   Service Garage                                             3.0    bay              ft.

   Car Wash (self-service)                                    2.0    service
                                                                        bay
   Car Wash (not self-service)                                1.0    employee
                                                                        20 sq.
                                                                        ft. floor
                                                                        area, or
                                                                        4 seats,         
                                                                 1.0    or               
   Drive-In or Roadside Services                              1.0    employee  -         -
                                                                 3.0    on
                                                                        largest
                                                                        shift,
                                                                        whichever
                                                                        is
                                                                        greater A
                                                                        500 sq.
   Automobile or Machinery Sales                              1.0    ft. floor         
                                                                        area              
                                                                        200 sq.           
   Clinics or Service Establishments                          1.0    ft. floor        5,001 -
                                                                        area             10,000 sq.
                                                                        600 sq.          ft.
   Furniture or Appliance Store                               1.0    ft. floor       10,001 -
                                                                        area            20,000 sq.
   Restaurants, Night Clubs and Clubs                         1.0    4 seats         ft.
                                                                        400 sq.   1.0    20,001 -
   Retail Stores                                              1.0    ft. floor 2.0    40,000 sq.
                                                                        areaB     3.0    ft.
   Theater                                                    1.0    4 seats   4.0    40,001 -
                                                                                         70,000 sq.
                                                                                         ft.
                                                                        400 sq.          plus 1 per
   All other commercial                                       1.0    ft. floor        50,000 sq.
                                                                        areaB            ft. over
                                                                                         70,000


                                                                                         0 - 20,000
                                                                                         sq. ft
                                                                        2,000 sq.        20,001 -
                                                                        ft. floor        40,000 sq.
                                                                        area, or         ft.
                                                                 1.0    employee  1.0    40,001 -
   Warehouse, Storage, Motor Freight Terminal, Industrial, or       on        2.0    70,000 sq.
Utilities                                                        1.05   largest   3.0    ft.
                                                                        shift,           plus 1 per
                                                                        whichever        50,000 sq.
                                                                        is               ft. over
                                                                        greaterA         70,000 sq.
                                                                                         ft.
                                                                                          
AIn the event that the lesser standard will provide sufficient off-street parking to accommodate
demand generated by development, a property owner may comply with the lesser standard in accordance
with the following conditions:
   (1) The parking plan shall show, and the property owner shall preserve, areas to be set aside and
reserved for the installation of parking sufficient to accommodate, if necessary, the greater
standard at some future time; and
   (2) In the event that, due to changes in use or intensity of use, the lesser standard becomes
insufficient to accommodate parking demand generated by a particular use, then the property owner
shall install sufficient parking within one year of such notice being given by the Administrator. In
such cases, the number of stalls required for sufficient parking shall be determined by the
Administrator, but shall in no event be less than the lesser standard or more than the greater
standard.
BThe Administrator reserves the right to determine whether the proposed use will have adequate
parking under this requirement. The Administrator may require additional information or a parking
generation study be prepared by a qualified professional to aid in this determination. In the event
the minimum requirements are found to be insufficient, the Administrator may require additional
parking spaces be provided or may request a determination be made by the Planning Commission.
 
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 4) (Am. Ord. 888, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 893,
passed 6-12-00; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 8-9-21)
APPENDIX C: TABLE 3. REQUIRED FENCES
   Use            Potential Disharmonious Use   Minimum Wall/Fence
                                                   Requirement (Height in Feet)
Residential District All other districts except A, 4'6"
                     E, F, S, I, M-1, M-2
Residential          Parking lots                  4'6"
Residential          Loading                       6'0"
Residential          Industrial Districts M-1, M-2 4'6" to 8'0"*
Residential          Utility building or           6'0"
                     substation
All uses except M-2  Junk yards and used vehicles  6'0"
                     and implements
*but no less than required by the Administrator
 
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 3)
APPENDIX D: TABLE 4. REQUIRED DISTANCE BUFFERING
USE                                   DISTANCE
Swimming pool in residential area     10' to property line
Swimming pool pump or filter          30' to property line
Air conditioners, independent mounted 10' to property line
Loading docks                         100' to abutting residential and medical
                                      uses property line
Junk yards and salvaging yards        20' to property line
                                      Amateur radio towers shall comply with
                                      the same setback requirements of the
Amateur radio towers                  principal structure in the district it is
                                      located in and not exceed a height of 50
                                      feet
                                      The height of the tower or the length of
                                      the guy wire, whichever is greater, to
Commercial communication towers       the property line of an existing or
                                      future residential district or use.
                                      Measurement shall begin from the location
                                      of the tower, including anchors.
Open air recreation uses              200' to residential district property
                                      line
 
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 4) (Am. Ord. 888, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 893,
passed 6-12-00; Am. Ord. 1173, passed 8-9-21)
APPENDIX E: TABLE 5. SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS
                                    KEY:   P - Permitted Use
                    SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS         S - Special Development
                                       A - Accessory Use
                                         C - Conditional Use
RESIDENTIAL   RESIDENTIAL                   BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
USE GROUPS    R- R- R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6 R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I S TZ L
              1  2
A. Single     P  P  P   P   S   S   P   P   P   S   — — — —    S P  —
Family
B. Townhouse  S  P  P   P   P   — — S   S   — — — — —    S S  —
C. Two family S  P  P   P   S   — — S   S   — — — — —    S  —
D. Multi-     S  S  S   P   P   — — S   — S   — — — —    ——
family
E. Mobile     ——— — — P   — — — — — — — —    ——
Homes
F. Home       A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   — — — —    A A  —
Occupations
G. Boarding   ——S   S   S   — — — S   S   — — — —    S ——
Houses
H. Guest Home ——— S   S   — — — — S   S   — — —    S ——
I. Fraternity
& Sorority    ——— S   P   — — — — S   — — — —    S ——
Houses
J. Child Care S  S  S   S   P   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   —    S ——
K.
Convalescent,
Nursing       S  S  S   S   S   — — S   — S   — — — —    S ——
and Rest
Homes
L. Hospitals  ——S   S   S   — S   — — S   — — — —    P ——
M. Motels     ——— S   S   — — — — P   P   S   — —    S ——
N. Seasonal   ——— — — — — — — — S   — — —    S S  —
Residential
O. Clubs      ——S   S   P   — — — S   P   P   S   — —    S ——
P. Civic      S  P  P   P   P   P   P   S   S   P   S   S   — —    S S ——
Q. Public     ——— — — — — — — S   S   — S   P      S  —
Service
R. Utility    P  P  P   P   S   P   P   P   S   S   P   S   P   P      S S S  —
Stations
S.
Recreational: P  P  P   P   S   S   P   P   S   C   S   S   S   —    P ——
1   
T.
Recreational: S  P  P   P   S   P   P   S   — — S   S   S   S      S P S  —
2   
U. Public
Institutional S  S  S   P   P   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   —    P S S  —
and
Cultural
V. Major      ——— S   S   S   — — — S   S   S   — —    P ——
Educational
W.            ——— — — — — — S   — P   P   P   P      P S P  —
Agricultural
X. Greenhouse ——— S   — — — — S   S   S   S   S   S      S S  —
Y. Cemetery   —S  — S   — — S   — — — — — S   —    P  —
Z. Parking    S  S  S   S   P   S   S   S   P   P   C   P   P   P      P S S  —
Lots
FOOTNOTES:
1. Public and quasi-public
2. Private
3. Temporary Occupancy
 
                                       KEY:   P - Permitted Use
                       SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS         S - Special
Development
                                          A - Accessory Use
                                              C - Conditional Use
NON-        RESIDENTIAL                     BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
RESIDENTIAL R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6 R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I S TZ L
USE GROUPS
                                       KEY:   P - Permitted Use
                       SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS         S - Special
Development
                                          A - Accessory Use
                                              C - Conditional Use
NON-           RESIDENTIAL                 BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
RESIDENTIAL    R- R- R- R- R-5 R-6 R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I  S TZ L
USE GROUPS     1  2  3  4
A. Daily       ———S  S   — — — P   P   P   P   S   —    S  ——
Retail
B. Convenience ————S   — — — P   P   P   P   — —    ———
Goods
C. Shopper     ————— — — — — P   P   P   — —    ———
Common Goods
D. Shopper
Occasional     ————— — — — — P   P   P   — —    ———
Goods
E. Home        ————— — — — — P   P   P   — —    ———
Furnishings
F. Restaurants ————S   — — — — P   P   P   S   —    S  ——
G. Restaurants ————— — — — — — S   S   S   —    ———
(Drive-In)
H.
Entertainment  ————— — — — — P   S   S   S   —    ———
(Public)
I. Open Air    ————— — — — — — P   S   S   —    ———
Recreation
J. Daily       ————S   — — — P   P   P   P   S   —    S  ——
Services
K. Office      ————— — — — P   P   P   P   S   —    S  ——
Services
L. Medical     ————S   — — — — P   P   P   — —    P  ——
Services
M. Household
Goods -        ————— — — — — S   P   S   P   S      ———
Repair
Services
N. Home
Improvement    ————— — — — — S   P   S   P   S      ———
Services
O. Supplies    ————— — — — — S   S   S   S   P      ———
P. Automotive  ————— — — — — S   P   S   S   S      ———
Sales
Q. Automotive  ————— — — — S   S   P   S   S   S      ———
Service
R. Animal      ————— — — — — — S   S   S   S      —S S  —
Services
S. Mortuary    ——S  S  S   — — — — S   S   — — —    ———
T. Parking     ———S  S   — — — S   C   P   P   P   P      S  ——
U. Terminals   ————— — — — — C   P   S   P   S      AS ——
V. Printing    ————— — — — — P   P   S   P   P      ———
Trades
W. Cleaning    ————— — — — — C   P   S   P   P      ———
X. Extractive
and Recovery   ————— — — — — — — — — S      —S  —
Industry
Y.
Manufacturing  ————— — — — — — — — P   P      ———
- Light
Assembly
Z. Figurines   ————— — — — — — — — P   P      ———
AA.
Manufacturing- ————— — — — — — — — — P      ———
General
BB.
Manufacturing- ————— — — — — — — — — S      ———
Heavy
CC.
Manufacturing- ————— — — — — — — — — S      ———
Primary
Production
DD.
Manufacturing- ————— — — — — — — — — S      ———
Special
Process
EE. Transient  ————— — — — — — — — — —    —S  —
Amusement
FF. Railroad   ————— — — — — P   P   P   P   P      S  P  —
Right-of-Way
GG. Warehouse  ————— — — — — — S   — P   P      ———
HH. Pet Stores ————— — — — — S   S   S   S   —    —S  —
II. Adult
Oriented       ————— — — — — — — — S   —    ———
Businesses
JJ. Contractor ————— — — — — — — — — S      ———
Yard
KK. Petroleum  ————— — — — — — — — S   —    ———
Bulk Storage
LL. Taproom    ————— — — — — C   C   C   C   C      ———
MM. Brewpub    ————— — — — — C   C   C   C   C      ———
NN. Outdoor    ————— — — — — P   P   P   — —    ———
Seating Area
OO. Automotive
Repair         ————— — — — — C   C   C   C   C      ———
Services
 
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 5) (Am. Ord. 600, eff. 11-27-76; Am. Ord. 603, eff.
1-22-79; Am. Ord. 773, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 820, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord.
822, passed 4-8-96; Am. Ord. 829, passed 2-24-97; Am. Ord. 846, passed 9-8-97;
Am. Ord. 852, passed 1-12-98; Am. Ord. 870, passed 10-12-98; Am. Ord. 933,
passed 2-11-02; Am. Ord. 1045, passed 9-12-11; Am. Ord. 1064, passed 12-10-12;
Am. Ord. 1065, passed 12-10-12; Am. Ord. 1086, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 1087,
passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 1112, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 1116, passed 7-9-18; Am
Ord. 1153, passed 11-12-19; Am. Ord. 1157, passed 3-9-20; Am. Ord. 1166, passed
11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 9-13-21; Am. Ord. 1186, passed 8-22-22)
TABLE OF USE GROUPS
PART I. RESIDENTIAL AND OTHER USE GROUPS
   A.   SINGLE FAMILY - Single family detached dwellings.
   B.   TOWNHOUSE - Single family attached and detached dwellings.
   C.   TWO FAMILY - Two family dwellings.
   D.   MULTI-FAMILY - Dwellings designed to contain more than two families.
   E.   MOBILE HOME - Mobile home parks.
   F.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
   G.   BOARDING HOUSES
   H.   GUEST HOME
   I.   FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES
   J.   CHILD CARE - Nursery schools, child care centers (not including
dormitories), and family and group day care centers.
   K.   CONVALESCENT, NURSING, AND REST HOMES
   L.   HOSPITALS
   M.   MOTELS - Hotels, motels and apartment hotels
   N.   SEASONAL RESIDENTIAL - Summer cabins, camps, cottages and travel
trailer parks, for seasonal and not permanent or year-around occupancy,
temporary occupancy
   O.   CLUBS - Clubs, fraternities, lodges and meeting places for other
organizations, not including any use that is customarily conducted as a gainful
business
   P.   CIVIC - Convention center, community center, public library, public
museum, public art gallery, public recreation, fire station, public botanical
garden, public auditorium and similar uses, each without outdoor storage
   Q.   PUBLIC SERVICE - Warehouses, garages, storage yards and shops that are
owned and operated by a governmental unit, together with accessory
administrative buildings
   R.   UTILITY STATIONS - Static transformer stations, booster station,
transmitters and other utility stations, when operating requirements
necessitate locating in districts as determined by the Zoning Administrator
   S.   RECREATIONAL (Public and Quasi-Public) - Public parks, playgrounds,
recreation and community center buildings and grounds; golf courses, country
clubs, tennis courts and similar recreational uses, all of a non-commercial
nature
   T.   RECREATIONAL (Private) - Private non-commercial recreation areas and
facilities not listed above, including swimming pools, country club, and tennis
club
   U.   PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL AND CULTURAL - Public, parochial and other private
elementary, junior high or high school offering courses in general education,
and not operated for profit. Churches, temples and other places of worship,
monasteries, convents, rectories and parsonages, including church schools,
public libraries, public museums, public art galleries and similar public
cultural uses
   V.   MAJOR EDUCATIONAL - Colleges, universities and seminaries, book stores,
computer service centers, fraternity and sorority houses, dormitories and
similar uses
   W.   AGRICULTURAL - Outdoor nurseries, forestry, sod farming and crop
farming
   X.   GREENHOUSES - Nurseries, greenhouses
   Y.   CEMETERY - Cemeteries and mausoleums
   Z.   PARKING LOTS - Automobile parking lots and garages, excluding repair
and parking of trucks, buses equipment and goods
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 5) (Am. Ord. 820, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 822,
passed 4-8-96)
PART II. NON-RESIDENTIAL USE GROUPS
   A.   DAILY RETAIL - Any retail business supplying daily needs and
commodities primarily for residents of the adjoining neighborhood, such as
drugs, grocery, liquor for consumption off the premises, meats excluding
slaughtering, and bakery and candy stores, including the baking and processing
of food products when prepared for retail sale on the premises
   B.   CONVENIENCE GOODS - Any retail business supplying only daily need
commodities for the residents of the surrounding neighborhoods, such as
supermarkets, drug stores, florists, gift and card, book and stationery,
hardware, paint and wallpaper, coins and philately, cosmetics and perfume,
hobbies and toys, office supplies, tobacco shops, photographic supply and cold
storage lockers, excluding slaughtering
   C.   SHOPPER COMMON GOODS - Such as apparel, variety, jewelry, shoes, and
dry goods
   D.   SHOPPER OCCASIONAL GOODS - Such as leather, luggage, furs and
foundation ware
   E.   HOME FURNISHINGS - Such as furniture, appliances, floor covering,
draperies
   F.   RESTAURANTS - Restaurants, cafes, delicatessens and tea rooms, but not
including entertainment, dancing, alcoholic beverages not consumed with a meal
or drive-in restaurants
   G.   RESTAURANTS (DRIVE-IN) - Drive-in eating and drinking
   H.   ENTERTAINMENT (PUBLIC) - Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges, night clubs,
theaters, billiard parlors, pool halls, bowling alleys and massage parlors
   I.   OPEN AIR RECREATION - Any type of commercial recreation including golf
driving ranges, drive-in theaters, swimming pools, skating rinks, tennis clubs,
but excluding auto race tracks
   J.   DAILY SERVICES - Any service establishment performing services
primarily for residents of the adjoining neighborhood such as a barber,
beautician, self-service laundries, clothes cleaning and laundry pickup
stations, shoe repair and shine, and tailor shops
   K.   OFFICE SERVICES - Public and private offices, banks and financial, post
office (not major distribution), utility office and collection, and
photographers
   L.   MEDICAL SERVICES (EXCLUDING NON-HUMAN) - Medical clinic, optometrist,
optical services, and chiropody
   M.   HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR SERVICES - Including sales, parts and repair but
not including appliance assembly or manufacturing, upholstery, watch and clock
repair, locksmith, or pawn shop
   N.   HOME IMPROVEMENT SERVICES - Carpenter shops, plumbing and heating
repair, painting and paper hanging shops, janitorial services, excluding
contractor yards
   O.   SUPPLIES - Farm, feed and seed supply, lumber yards and lawn and
gardening supplies
   P.   AUTOMOTIVE SALES - Automotive sales, parts, auto accessories, used car
lots, farm implement sales, parts, recreation vehicle sales, parts, mobile home
sales. Sales shall not include inoperable vehicles.
   Q.   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE - Gas stations and car wash
   R.   ANIMAL SERVICES - Kennels, animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics,
animal auction, livestock buying and selling, extermination and pounds
   S.   MORTUARY
   T.   PARKING - Automobile parking lots and garages, excluding repairs
   U.   TERMINALS - Ambulance and taxi service, bus, rail and rotocraft
terminals excluding motor freight
   V.   PRINTING TRADES - Publishing, job printing, lithographing, blue
printing
   W.   CLEANING - Clothes cleaning and dyeing, diaper service, laundries,
linen supply and carpet and rug cleaning
   X.   EXTRACTIVE AND RECOVERY INDUSTRY - This group includes the mining,
quarrying, excavation, processing, storing, separating, cleaning or marketing
of natural resources such as sand, gravel, earth, peat, coal, minerals, gas,
and oil, etc., the establishment or operation of junk yards or the salvaging or
reclamation of materials
   Y.   MANUFACTURING - LIGHT ASSEMBLY - The manufacturing, compounding,
assembling or treatment of products from the following previously prepared
materials, bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur,
glass, hair, leather (tanned), horn, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious
metals or stones, sheet metal, shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wood (except saw
and planing mills) and yarns
   Z.   FIGURINES - The manufacture of pottery, figurines or other similar
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas
   AA.   MANUFACTURING - GENERAL - Any manufacturing use meeting performance
standards (and not listed separately under MANUFACTURING: HEAVY, PRODUCTION, OR
SPECIAL PROCESS)
   BB.   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY - The manufacturing of acetylene in excess of 15
pounds pressure psi; and acid; asbestos; asphalt and concrete mixing but not
manufacturing; automobile assembly; bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant
brewing or distilling of liquors; brick, pottery, tile and terra cotta
manufacturing; petroleum bulk storage in excess of 125,000 gallons
cumulatively; candle or sperm oil manufacturing; disinfectant, insecticide or
poison manufacturing; crematory; cooperage works; dextrine, starch or glucose
manufacturing; emery cloth or sandpaper manufacturing; felt manufacturing;
flour or grain mill; forge or foundry works; hair or hair products
manufacturing; lime or lime products manufacturing; linoleum, oil cloth or
oiled goods manufacturing; match manufacturing; meat packing, stockyards or
slaughterhouses; paper and pulp manufacturing; perfume manufacturing; pickle,
sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing; plaster manufacturing; poultry slaughter-
house, including packing and storage for wholesale; printing ink manufacturing;
radium products; sewage treatment plant; shoddy manufacturing; shoe blacking or
polish manufacturing; steel fabrication; steam power plant, except where
accessory to a permitted principal use; and stone and monument works
   CC.   MANUFACTURING - PRIMARY PRODUCTION - Manufacturing uses involving
primary production of asphalt, cement, charcoal and fuel briquettes; aniline
dyes; ammonia, carbide, caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine, carbon black and
bone black, creosote hydrogen, and oxygen, industrial alcohol, nitrates of an
explosive nature, potash, plastic materials, and synthetic resins, pyroxylin,
rayon yarn, and hydrochloric, nitric, phosphoric, picric, and sulphuric acids;
coal, coke, and tar products, including gas manufacturing; explosive,
fertilizers, gelatine, animal glue and size; turpentine, rubber soaps,
including fat rendering
   DD.   MANUFACTURING - SPECIAL PROCESS - The processes of nitrating of cotton
or other materials; magnesium foundry; reduction, refining, smelting, and
alloying of metal or metal ores; slag piles, refining petroleum products, such
as gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, lubricating oil, distillation of wood or bones;
storage, curing or tanning of raw, green or salted hides or skins
   EE.   TRANSIENT AMUSEMENT - Circus, carnivals and other transient amusement
enterprises, auto race tracks and county fairs
   FF.   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY - Railroad right-of-way but not including
terminals, transfer and storage tracks, nor accessory structures except
incidentally provided for communication or switching equipment
   GG.   WAREHOUSE - Wholesale warehouse and motor freight terminals
   HH.   PET STORES
   II.   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS
   JJ.   CONTRACTOR YARD
    KK.   PETROLEUM BULK STORAGE - Storage of less than 125,000 gallons
cumulatively
      LL.   TAPROOM - A brewer who is licensed for on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer under M.S. § 340A.26, Subd. 1.
     MM.   BREWPUB - A brewer who is licensed for on-sale intoxicating liquor
or 3.2% malt liquor license by a municipality for a restaurant operated in the
place of manufacture under M.S. 340A.24.
   NN.   OUTDOOR SEATING AREA - An outdoor seating/serving area compact and
contiguous to a bar, tavern, restaurant, café, coffee shop, brewery, brewpub,
or distillery subject to §
155.085(G).
   OO.   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SERVICES - An establishment primarily engaged in the
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar mechanical
equipment, including but not limited to brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire
repair and change, lubrication, tune ups, and transmission work, provided it is
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Table 5) (Am. Ord. 773, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 829,
passed 2-24-97; Am. Ord. 870, passed 10-12-98; Am. Ord. 1065, passed 12-10-12;
Am. Ord. 1112, passed 1-8-18; Am. Ord. 1116, passed 7-9-18; Am. Ord. 1157,
passed 3-9-20; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20)
APPENDIX F: SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS - SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT (SO)
                                       KEY:   P - Permitted Use
      SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS - SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT (SO)       C -
Conditional Use
                                       A - Accessory Use
AC- Accessory/Conditional Use
S - Special Use
RESIDENTIAL   RESIDENTIAL                   BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
USE GROUPS    R- R- R-3 R-4 R-5 R-6 R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I S TZ L
              1  2
A. Single     P  P  P   P   C   C   P   P   P   C   — — — —    C P  —
Family
B. Townhouse1 C  P  P   P   P   — — C   C   — — — — —    C C  —
C. Two family C  P  P   P   C   — — C   C   — — — — —    C  —
D. Multi-     C  C  C   P   P   — — C   — C   — — — —    ——
family1
E. Mobile     ——— — — P   — — — — — — — —    ——
Homes
F. Home       A  A  A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   — — — —    A A  —
Occupations
G. Boarding   ——C   C   C   — — — C   C   — — — —    C ——
Houses
H. Guest Home ——— C   C   — — — — C   C   — — —    C ——
I. Fraternity
& Sorority    ——— C   P   — — — — C   — — — —    C ——
Houses
J. Child Care C  C  C   C   P   C   C   C   C   C   — C   — —    C ——
K.
Convalescent, ——C   C   C   — — — — C   — — — —    C ——
Nursing and
Rest Homes
L. Hospitals  ——C   C   C   — C   — — C   — — — —    C ——
M. Motels
(See          ——— — — — — — — — — — — —    ——
Commercial
PUD)
N. Seasonal   ——— — — — — — — — C   — — —    C C  —
Residential
O. Clubs      ——C   C   P   — — — C   P   P   C   — —    C ——
P. Civic      C  C  P   P   P   P   P   C   C   P   P   C   — —    C C ——
Q. Public     ——— — — — — — — C   C   — C   P      C  —
Service
R. Utility    P  P  P   P   C   P   P   P   C   C   P   C   P   P      C C C  —
Stations
S.            C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C   C   — C   C   C   —    C ——
Recreational2
T.            C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C   — — C   C   C   C      C C C  —
Recreational3
U. Public
Institutional C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   —    C C C  —
and Cultural
V. Major      ——— — C   C   — — — — — — — —    C ——
Educational
W.            ——— — — — — — C   — P   P   P   P      P C P  —
Agricultural
X. Greenhouse ——— C   — — — — C   C   C   C   C   C      C C  —
Y. Cemetery   —C  — C   — — C   — — — — — C   —    P  —
Z. Parking    C  C  C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C   C      C C C  —
Lots
AA.
Residential   ——— C   C   — — — — — — — — —    ——
PUD
FOOTNOTES:
1. . . .Up to and including 4 units
2. . . .Public and Quasi-Public
3. . . .Private   
 
                                          KEY:   P - Permitted Use
      SCHEDULE OF USE REGULATIONS- SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT            C -
Conditional Use
                                          A - Accessory Use
                                          AC - Accessory/Conditional Use
S - Special Use
NONRESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL                 BUSINESS        INDUSTRIAL OTHER
USE GROUPS     R- R- R- R- R-5 R-6 R-7 R-8 B-1 B-2 B-3 B-4 M-1 M-2    I  S TZ L
               1  2  3  4
A. Daily       ————— — —     P   P   P   P   C   —    C  ——
Retail
B. Convenience ————— — —     P   P   P   P   — —    ———
Goods
C. Shopper     ————— — —     — P   P   P   — —    ———
Common Goods
D. Shopper
Occasional     ————— — —     — P   P   P   — —    ———
Goods
E. Home        ————— — —     — P   P   P   — —    ———
Furnishings
F. Restaurants ————— — —     — P   P   P   C   —    C  ——
G. Restaurants ————— — —     — — C   C   C   —    ———
(Drive-In)
H.
Entertainment  ————— — —     — P   C   C   C   —    ———
(Public)
I. Open Air    ————— — —     — — P   C   C   —    ———
Recreation
J. Daily       ————— — —     P   P   P   P   C   —    C  ——
Services
K. Office      ————— — —     — P   P   P   C   —    C  ——
Services
L. Medical     ————— — —     — P   P   P   — —    P  ——
Services
M. Household
Goods - Repair ————— — —     — C   P   C   P   C      ———
Services
N. Home
Improvement    ————— — —     — C   P   C   P   C      ———
Services
O. Supplies    ————— — —     — C   C   C   C   C      ———
P. Automotive  ————— — —     — C   P   C   C   C      ———
Sales
Q. Automotive  ————— — —     C   C   P   C   C   C      ———
Service
R. Animal      ————— — —     — — C   C   C   C      —C C  —
Services
S. Mortuary    ——C  C  C   — —     — C   C   — — —    ———
T. Parking     ———C  C   — —     C   P   P   P   P   P      C  ——
U. Terminals   ————— — —     — P   P   P   C   C      AC ——
V. Printing    ————— — —     — P   P   C   C   C      ———
Trades
W. Cleaning    ————— — —     — P   P   C   C   C      ———
X. Extractive
and Recovery   ————— — —     — — — — — —    —C  —
Industry
Y.
Manufacturing  ————— — —     — — — — C   C      ———
- Light
Assembly
Z. Figurines   ————— — —     — — — — C   C      ———
AA.
Manufacturing- ————— — —     — — — — — C      ———
General
BB.
Manufacturing- ————— — —     — — — — — C      ———
Heavy
CC.
Manufacturing- ————— — —     — — — — — C      ———
Primary
Production
DD.
Manufacturing- ————— — —     — — — — — C      ———
Special
Process
EE. Transient  ————— — —     — — — — — —    —C  —
Amusement
FF. Railroad   ————— — —     — P   P   P   P   P      C  P  —
Right-of-Way
GG. Warehouse  ————— — —     — — P   — S   P      ———
HH. Pet Stores ————— — —     — C   C   C   C   —    —C  —
II. Outdoor    ————— — —     — P   P   P   — —    ———
Seating Area
JJ. Automotive
Repair         ————— — —     — C   C   C   C   C      ———
Services
KK. Commercial ————— — —     — C   C   C   — —    ———
PUD
 
TABLE OF USE GROUPS
PART I. RESIDENTIAL AND OTHER USE GROUPS
   A.   SINGLE FAMILY - Single family detached dwellings
   B.   TOWNHOUSE - Single family attached and detached dwellings
   C.   TWO FAMILY - Two family dwellings
   D.   MULTI-FAMILY - Dwellings designed to contain more than two families
   E.   MOBILE HOME - Mobile home parks
   F.   HOME OCCUPATIONS
   G.   BOARDING HOUSES
   H.   GUEST HOME
   I.   FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES
   J.   CHILD CARE - Nursery schools, child care centers (not including
dormitories), and family and group day care centers
   K.   CONVALESCENT, NURSING, AND REST HOMES
   L.   HOSPITALS
   M.   MOTELS - Hotels, motels and apartment hotels
   N.   SEASONAL RESIDENTIAL - Summer cabins, camps, cottages and travel
trailer parks, for seasonal and not permanent or year-around occupancy,
temporary occupancy
   O.   CLUBS - Clubs, fraternities, lodges and meeting places for other
organizations, not including any use that is customarily conducted as a gainful
business
   P.   CIVIC - Convention center, community center, public library, public
museum, public art gallery, public recreation, fire station, public botanical
garden, public auditorium and similar uses, each without outdoor storage
   Q.   PUBLIC SERVICE - Warehouses, garages, storage yards and shops that are
owned and operated by a governmental unit, together with accessory
administrative buildings
   R.   UTILITY STATIONS - Static transformer stations, booster station,
transmitters and other utility stations, when operating requirements
necessitate locating in districts as determined by the Zoning Administrator
   S.   RECREATIONAL (Public and Quasi-Public) - Public parks, playgrounds,
recreation and community center buildings and grounds; golf courses, country
clubs, tennis courts and similar recreational uses, all of a non-commercial
nature
   T.   RECREATIONAL (Private) - Private non-commercial recreation areas and
facilities not listed above, including swimming pools, country club, and tennis
club
   U.   PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL AND CULTURAL - Public, parochial and other private
elementary, junior high or high school offering courses in general education,
and not operated for profit. Churches, temples and other places of worship,
monasteries, convents, rectories and parsonages, including church schools,
public libraries, public museums, public art galleries and similar public
cultural uses
   V.   MAJOR EDUCATIONAL - Colleges, universities and seminaries, book stores,
computer service centers, fraternity and sorority houses, dormitories and
similar uses
   W.   AGRICULTURAL - Outdoor nurseries, forestry, sod farming and general
farming, excluding animal farms or animal hospitals
   X.   GREENHOUSES - Nurseries, greenhouses
   Y.   CEMETERY - Cemeteries and mausoleums
   Z.   PARKING LOTS - Automobile parking lots and garages, excluding repair
and parking of trucks, buses equipment and goods
PART II. NON-RESIDENTIAL USE GROUPS
   A.   DAILY RETAIL - Any retail business supplying daily needs and
commodities primarily for residents of the adjoining neighborhood, such as
drugs, grocery, liquor for consumption off the premises, meats excluding
slaughtering, and bakery and candy stores, including the baking and processing
of food products when prepared for retail sale on the premises
   B.   CONVENIENCE GOODS - Any retail business supplying only daily need
commodities for the residents of the surrounding neighborhoods, such as
supermarkets, drug stores, florists, gift and card, book and stationery,
hardware, paint and wallpaper, coins and philately, cosmetics and perfume,
hobbies and toys, office supplies, tobacco shops, photographic supply and cold
storage lockers, excluding slaughtering
   C.   SHOPPER COMMON GOODS - Such as apparel, variety, jewelry, shoes, and
dry goods
   D.   SHOPPER OCCASIONAL GOODS - Such as leather, luggage, furs and
foundation ware
   E.   HOME FURNISHINGS - Such as furniture, appliances, floor covering,
draperies
   F.   RESTAURANTS - Restaurants, cafes, delicatessens and tea rooms, but not
including entertainment, dancing, alcoholic beverages not consumed with a meal
or drive-in restaurants
   G.   RESTAURANTS (DRIVE-IN) - Drive-in eating and drinking
   H.   ENTERTAINMENT (PUBLIC) - Bars, taverns, cocktail lounges, night clubs,
theaters, billiard parlors, pool halls, bowling alleys and massage parlors
   I.   OPEN AIR RECREATION - Any type of commercial recreation including golf
driving ranges, drive-in theaters, swimming pools, skating rinks, tennis clubs,
but excluding auto race tracks
   J.   DAILY SERVICES - Any service establishment performing services
primarily for residents of the adjoining neighborhood such as a barber,
beautician, self-service laundries, clothes cleaning and laundry pickup
stations, shoe repair and shine, and tailor shops
   K.   OFFICE SERVICES - Public and private offices, banks and financial, post
office (not major distribution), utility office and collection, and
photographers
   L.   MEDICAL SERVICES (EXCLUDING NON-HUMAN) - Medical clinic, optometrist,
optical services, and chiropody
   M.   HOUSEHOLD GOODS REPAIR SERVICES - Including sales, parts and repair but
not including appliance assembly or manufacturing, upholstery, watch and clock
repair, locksmith, or pawn shop
   N.   HOME IMPROVEMENT SERVICES - Carpenter shops, plumbing and heating
repair, painting and paper hanging shops, janitorial services, excluding
contractor yards
   O.   SUPPLIES - Farm, feed and seed supply, lumber yards and lawn and
gardening supplies
   P.   AUTOMOTIVE SALES - Automotive sales, parts, auto accessories, used car
lots, farm implement sales, parts, recreation vehicle sales, parts, mobile home
sales. Sales shall not include inoperable vehicles
   Q.   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE - Gas stations and car wash
   R.   ANIMAL SERVICES - Kennels, animal hospitals, veterinarian clinics,
animal auction, livestock buying and selling, extermination and pounds
   S.   MORTUARY
   T.   PARKING - Automobile parking lots and garages, excluding repairs
   U.   TERMINALS - Ambulance and taxi service, bus, rail and rotocraft
terminals excluding motor freight
   V.   PRINTING TRADES - Publishing, job printing, lithographing, blue
printing
   W.   CLEANING - Clothes cleaning and dyeing, diaper service, laundries,
linen supply and carpet and rug cleaning
   X.   EXTRACTIVE AND RECOVERY INDUSTRY - This group includes the mining,
quarrying, excavation, processing, storing, separating, cleaning or marketing
of natural resources such as sand, gravel, earth, peat, coal, minerals, gas,
and oil, etc., the establishment or operation of junk yards or the salvaging or
reclamation of materials
   Y.   MANUFACTURING - LIGHT ASSEMBLY - The manufacturing, compounding,
assembling or treatment of products from the following previously prepared
materials, bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur,
glass, hair, leather (tanned), horn, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious
metals or stones, sheet metal, shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wood (except saw
and planing mills) and yarns
   Z.   FIGURINES - The manufacture of pottery, figurines or other similar
products, using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas
   AA.   MANUFACTURING - GENERAL - Any manufacturing use meeting performance
standards (and not listed separately under MANUFACTURING: HEAVY, PRODUCTION, OR
SPECIAL PROCESS)
   BB.   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY - The manufacturing of acetylene in excess of 15
pounds pressure psi; and acid; asbestos; asphalt and concrete mixing but not
manufacturing; automobile assembly; bleaching, cleaning and dyeing plant
brewing or distilling of liquors, brick potter, tile and terra cotta
manufacturing; petroleum bulk station; candle or sperm oil manufacturing;
disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacturing; crematory; cooperage works
dextrine, starch or glucose manufacturing; emery cloth or sandpaper
manufacturing; felt manufacturing; flour or grain mill; forge or foundry works;
hair or hair products manufacturing; lime or lime products manufacturing;
linoleum, oil cloth or oiled goods manufacturing; match manufacturing; meat
packing, stockyards or slaughterhouses; paper and pulp manufacturing; perfume
manufacturing; pickle, sauerkraut or sausage manufacturing; plaster
manufacturing; poultry slaughterhouse, including packing and storage for
wholesale; printing ink manufacturing; radium products; sewage treatment plant;
shoddy manufacturing; shoe blacking or polish manufacturing; steel fabrication;
steam power plant, except where accessory to a permitted principal use; and
stone and monument works.
   CC.   MANUFACTURING - PRIMARY PRODUCTION - Manufacturing uses involving
primary production of asphalt, cement, charcoal and fuel briquettes; aniline
dyes; ammonia, carbide, caustic soda, cellulose, chlorine, carbon black and
bone black, creosote hydrogen, and oxygen, industrial alcohol, nitrates of an
explosive nature, potash, plastic materials, and synthetic resins, pyroxylin,
rayon yarn, and hydrochloric, nitric, phosphoric, picric, and sulfuric acids;
coal, coke, and tar products, including gas manufacturing; explosive,
fertilizers, gelatine, animal glue and size; turpentine, rubber soaps,
including fat rendering
   DD.   MANUFACTURING - SPECIAL PROCESS - The processes of nitrating of cotton
or other materials; magnesium foundry; reduction, refining, smelting, and
alloying of metal or metal ores; slag piles, refining petroleum products, such
as gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, lubricating oil, distillation of wood or bones;
storage, curing or tanning of raw, green or salted hides or skins
   EE.   TRANSIENT AMUSEMENT - Circus, carnivals and other transient amusement
enterprises, auto race tracks and county fairs.
   FF.   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY - Railroad right-of-way but not including
terminals, transfer and storage tracks, nor accessory structures except
incidentally provided for communication or switching equipment
   GG.   WAREHOUSE - Wholesale warehouse and motor freight terminals
   HH.   PET STORES
   II.   OUTDOOR SEATING AREA - An outdoor seating/serving area compact and
contiguous to a bar, tavern, restaurant, café, coffee shop, brewery, brewpub,
or distillery subject to §
155.085(G)
   JJ.   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SERVICES - An establishment primarily engaged in the
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar mechanical
equipment, including but not limited to brake, muffler, upholstery work, tire
repair and change, lubrication, tune ups, and transmission work, provided it is
conducted within a completely enclosed building.
(Am. Ord. 1157, passed 3-9-20; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 11-23-20; Am. Ord. 1175,
passed 9-13-21)
ZONING DISTRICTS
   R-1   One Family Detached Residential District
   R-2   One Family Low Density Residential District
   R-3   Low Density Preservation Residential District
   R-4   Multi-Family Medium Density District
   R-5   Multi-Family Medium and High Density District
   R-6   Mobile Home District
   R-7   One Family Incremental Growth Residential District
   B-1   Neighborhood Business
   B-2   Central Business District
   B-3   General Business District
   B-4   Shopping Center District
   M-1 Light Industrial District
   M-2 Heavy Industrial District
   S   Natural Features District
   I   Institutional
   TZ   Transitional Zone
   L   Lakeshore
   PUD Planned Unit Development
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
[Click_here_to_view_map.]
(Ord. 808, passed 3-13-95)
APPENDIX G: TABLE 6. PARKING - SIX BLOCK CORE AREA
Residential Use Groups B-2 District Off-Street Parking
Residential Use Groups              B-2 District Off-Street Parking
A Single Family                     C            Required
B Townhouse                         -            Not Applicable
C Two Family                        -            Not Applicable
D Multi Family                      C            Required
E Mobile Homes                      -            Not Applicable
F Home Occupations                  A            Required
G Boarding Houses                   C            Required
H Guest Home                        C            Required
I Fraternity and Sorority Houses    C            Required
J Child Care                        C            Required
K Convalescent, Nursing and Rest    C            Required
  Homes
L Hospitals                         C            Required
M Motels                            P            Required
N Seasonal Residential              -            Not Applicable
O Clubs                             P            Not Required
P Civic                             P            Required
Q Public Service                    C            Required
                                                 May be exempt as determined
R Utility Stations                  C            through conditional use permit
                                                 process
S Recreational (1)                  -            Not Applicable
T Recreational (2)                  -            Not Applicable
U Public Institutional and Cultural C            Required
V Major Educational                 -            Not Applicable
W Agricultural                      -            Not Applicable
                                                 May be exempt as determined
X Greenhouses                       C            through conditional use permit
                                                 process
Y Cemetery                          -            Not Applicable
Z Parking Lots                      P            Required
 
   Key:      P   -   Permitted Use
         C   -   Conditional Use Permit
         A   -   Accessory Use
         AC   -   Accessory/Conditional Use
   Footnotes:   (1)   -   Public and quasi-public
         (2)   -   Private
Non-Residential Use Groups B-2 District Off-Street Parking
Non-Residential Use Groups         B-2 District Off-Street Parking
A  Daily Retail                    P            Not Required
B  Convenience Goods               P            Not Required
C  Shopper Common Goods            P            Not Required
D  Shopper Occasional Goods        P            Not Required
E  Home Furnishings                P            Not Required
F  Restaurants                     P            Not Required
G  Restaurants (Drive-In)          -            Not Applicable
H  Entertainment (Public)          P            Not Required
I  Open Air Recreation             -            Not Applicable
J  Daily Services                  P            Not Required
K  Office Services                 P            Not Required
L  Medical Services                P            Not Required
M  Household Goods-Repair Services C            Not Required
N  Home Improvement Services       C            Not Required
                                                May be exempt as determined
O  Supplies                        C            through conditional use permit
                                                process
P  Automotive and Farm Implement   C            Required
                                                May be exempt as determined
Q  Automotive Service              C            through conditional use permit
                                                process
R  Animal Services                 -            Not Applicable
S  Mortuary                        C            Required
T  Parking                         P            Required
U  Terminals                       P            Required
V  Printing Trades                 P            Not Required
W  Cleaning                        P            Not Required
X  Extractive and Recovery         -            Not Applicable
   Industry
                                                Not ApplicableBR:LF:
                                                0.00416667,0.00416667,FC:
                                                0,0,0,TP:
                                                0.0208333,0.00416667,FC:
Y  Manufacturing - Light Assembly  -            0,0,0,RT:0,0.00416667,FC:
                                                0,0,0,BT:
                                                0.0208333,0.00416667,FC:
                                                0,0,0>B-2 DistrictOff-Street
                                                Parking
Z  Figurines                       -            Not Applicable
aa Manufacturing-General           -            Not Applicable
bb Manufacturing-Heavy             -            Not Applicable
cc Manufacturing-Primary           -            Not Applicable
   Production
dd Manufacturing-Special Process   -            Not Applicable
ee Transient Amusement             -            Not Applicable
ff Railroad Right-of-Way           P            Not Required
gg Warehouse                       -            Not Applicable
hh Pet Stores                      C            Not Required
 
   Key:      P   -   Permitted Use
         C   -   Conditional Use Permit
         A   -   Accessory Use
         AC   -   Accessory/Conditional Use
(Am. Ord. 1102, passed 12-12-16)
APPENDIX H: TABLE 7 PARKING LOT STANDARDS - DESIGN CRITERIA
PARKING LOT STANDARDS - DESIGN CRITERIA
                                                       f1 f2
a       b     c        d           e                   Center to Center of
Parking Stall Stall to Aisle Width Curb Length Per Car Two-Row Bin with Access
Angle   Width Curb                                     Road Between
                                                       curb-curb overlap c-c
0°     9.0'  9.0'     12.0'       23.0'               30'   n/a
30°    9.0'  17.3'    11.0'       18.0'               45.6' 37.8'
45°    9.0'  19.8'    13.0'       12.7'               52.6' 46.2'
60°    9.0'  21.0'    18.0'       10.4'               60.0' 55.5'
90°    9.0'  19.0'    24.0'       9.0'                62.0' n/a
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d4e4d1395d16d53f6320cf97b6f3d5f33f12c353/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5508.bmp]
1   For parking stalls with an angle of 30° or greater, the minimum stall
dimensions shall be 9 feet wide and 19 feet long.
2   For parking stalls with an angle of less than 30°, the minimum stall
dimensions shall be 9 feet wide and 23 feet long, unless there are no
obstructions either to the front or to the rear of the stall, in which case
the minimum stall dimensions shall be 9 feet wide and 19 feet long.
 
(Ord. 847, passed 10-27-97)
APPENDIX I: HYDROLOGY
PROJECT REPORT
FOR FLOOD CONTROL ON
OKABENA CREEK
WORTHINGTON, MINNESOTA
(LOCAL PROTECTION)
   1.   Climatology. The City of Worthington is in southwestern Minnesota,
about ten miles north of the Iowa state line. The climate is temperate and well
suited for agriculture. According to the 1930 Climatic Summary for southwestern
Minnesota, the average annual snowfall amounts to 29.3 inches at Worthington,
and 35.6 inches at Windom, Minnesota, which is about 30 miles to the northeast.
The following tabulation lists the average annual precipitation and
temperature, according to the 1952 Annual Summaries for Minnesota and Iowa, at
three representative stations in the Worthington area.
 
                       *Years of Record          Temperature    Precipitation
                       Temperature Precipitation Average Annual Average Annual

Worthington, Minnesota 58          61            44.4           27.10
Windom, Minnesota      26          29            45.0           25.49
Rock Rapids, Iowa      53          56            45.8           25.54
*Including 1952
 
   2.   Basin characteristics. West Okabena Lake receives the run-off from
about 13.3 square miles of land drainage area, most of which is located north
and west of the lake (plate 1). topography is gently rolling, but the short
stream channels, notably Okabena Creek, have comparatively steep profiles and
good flow capacity. Because of the gently rolling terrain, erosion and
resultant downstream sedimentation do not appear to be an important problem.
The city owns a dredge and since 1948 maintains a continuing lake dredging
program amounting to 150,000 to 200,000 cubic yards annually with the purpose
of eventually attaining a 20-foot depth in the lake. It is considered that a
large part of this annual clean-out is comprised of the accumulation of years
of sedimentation and that the annual deposition may not be more than 25,000 to
50,000 cubic yards.
   3.   Okabena Creek, which is the cause of the local flood problem, rises
about 4 miles northwest of Worthington and drains an area of about 4.5 square
miles, above the junction with Whiskey Ditch. Originally the basin contained
about 6.5 or 7 square miles but within recent years drainage ditch systems in
the upper portion of the basin have been revised to carry run-off westward into
the Big Sioux River Basin.
   4.   No data on water loss rates during rainfall were available for the
area. It appears, however, that the soil in the area is reasonably compact and
cohesive, since the stream channels are not heavily eroded.
In general, the lands adjacent to stream courses are pastured and the upland
areas are cultivated. Probably less than 15% of the land is timbered. It was
considered that a run-off factor of 70% applied to the design rainfall pattern
would be reasonably conservative.
   5.   Hydrology. The drainage area tributary to and including West Okabena
Lake contains a total of 14.58 square miles. Since the sequence of inflow into
the lake is an important factor in determining the maximum lake level resulting
from the design flood, the drainage area was divided into six component parts
designated areas A to F as shown on plate 1. Unit rainfall length was estimated
as one or two hours, depending on the size of the areas, and synthetic unit
graphs were computed for each basin subdivision (plate B-1 of this appendix).
During the course of the study the one-hour unit graphs were changed to two-
hour graphs.
   6.   The U.S. Weather Bureau co-operative station at Worthington has been
operated for over sixty years. No attempt, however, was made to base design
rainfalls on that record. Since data for Worthington have been included in the
Yarnell rainfall frequency study (U.S. Department of Agriculture, Miscellaneous
Publication No. 204), design floods were based on the Yarnell.
   7.   The primary flood problem in Worthington results from high flows
originating in the Okabena Creek Basin. As shown on plate 1, discharge from the
creek enters Whiskey Ditch at a point about 4,200 feet from West Okabena Lake,
travels about 1,000 feet down that ditch and then, theoretically, is divided
with part of the flow entering County Ditch No. 12 through a diversion dam, and
the remainder continuing in Whiskey Ditch into the lake. Actually, the high
flows of Okabena Creek overflow the left bank of the channel at the head of
Whiskey Ditch and enter County Ditch No. 12 below the old diversion dam.
Resultant high stages in County Ditch No 12 produce flow back-up in the storm
sewers which discharge into that ditch and surface flooding in the newly
developed residential area described in the main report.
   8.   Under the project plan, it is proposed to control flood flows from
Okabena Creek by means of channel enlargement of Whiskey Ditch and by levees
where necessary. About 25% of the flow would be diverted through uncontrolled
openings into County Ditch No. 12 and 75% would enter the lake. Several factors
were considered in establishing the flow-diversion ratio. First, the lake
outlet structure built in 1939 as part of a Works Progress Administration
project does not have adequate flow capacity to prevent a material rise in lake
level when all the drainage area is contributing run-off under design storm
conditions. Therefore, diversion of flood flows into the lake should be limited
to some extent. Secondly, it was considered desirable, from the maintenance
standpoint, that appreciable flow should be passed through County Ditch No. 12
occasionally. Such flows should be large enough to promote channel clean-out
without causing any critical back-up effect in storm sewers. It appeared that a
flow depth of 4.5 to 5 feet would fulfill this condition and, with the existing
channel slopes, this depth corresponds to a computed flow of about 300 c.f.s.
That discharge would amount to 25% of the Okabena Creek design flood crest, a
discussion of which follows.
   9.   The criterion for design of the levee grade and channel sections along
Whiskey Ditch is crest flow of the design flood. The flood based on a two-hour
100-year rainfall was computed and crest flow determined as 1,065 c.f.s. The
24-hour 100-year flow was then computed, based on rainfall patterned as shown
on plate B-1, and crest flow determined as 1,200 c.f.s. Levee heights and
channel sections upstream from the point of flow division were therefore based
on a flow of 1,200 c.f.s. (24-hour, 100-year flow) and below the division point
were based on 900 c.f.s.; see plates 2, 3, and 4.
   10. It was necessary to determine the maximum rise in lake level resulting
from the design flow, and since run-off volume is the criterion, the 24-hour
100-year flow was adopted. Design floods were computed for each of the
component tributary areas, and the total flood, including rainfall on the lake,
was then routed through lake storage above the outlet structure (plate B-1).
Maximum outflow from the lake was determined as 248 c.f.s. and maximum lake
level at elevation 1,577.7, or 2.7 feet above outlet spillway crest elevation
with the initial lake level at elevation 1,575. According to statements of the
city officials there would be no damage along the lake shore at that stage
unless strong winds occurred coincidentally with the rise in lake level.
However, at present, flashboards one foot high maintain the lake level to about
elevation 1,576 and the design storm occurrence would raise the lake level to
about elevation 1,578.5. When informed of this fact local officials stated they
would raise low-lying areas around the lake (spoil from lake dredging described
in paragraph 2.) The lake storage volume above elevation 1,575 was estimated.
The storage curve, lake outlet rating curve, diversion outlet rating curve, and
several typical channel rating curves are shown on plate B-1.
   11. Standard project flood. According to the data contained in
Hydrometeorological Section Report No. 23, the maximum possible 24-hour
rainfall over 10 square miles in the Worthington area would be 24.4 inches.
This amount was considered applicable to the 14.58 square miles of drainage
area concerned in the project. Fifty percent of that rainfall, or 12.2 inches,
was used as the standard project rainfall and patterned as discussed
previously. Run-off would amount to about 8.5 inches and the resulting flows
were determined for the component tributary areas. On Okabena Creek the crest
flow was computed as 2,600 c.f.s. which is approximately equal to the design
channel capacity plus levee freeboard at the head of Whiskey Ditch. However,
since the capacities of the triple 8x5 foot box culvert plus the three 42-inch
pipes of the diversion structure total about 1,800 c.f.s. at elevation 1,586
(levee crest near the structures), overtopping of the levee at higher flows
would begin in the reach from about station 39 + 00 to station 43 + 60. The
flood flows are higher than 1,800 c.f.s. for only 4½ hours and the overflow
would range from 0 c.f.s. and back to 0 c.f.s. during that period of time.
Experience has shown that if the back slope of the levee is well sodded and
maintained there would be a possibility that the levee would not fail. Under
the condition moderate flooding from the relatively small volume of overflow
would result in the area near County Ditch No. 12. The remainder of the run-off
from area A plus the run-off from the other areas would cause considerable
flooding of the shoreline development. In case of levee failure it is estimated
that flooding would occur over the area in the vicinity of County Ditch No. 12
to a depth of several feet, resulting in appreciable damage.
   12. Hydraulic design. Whiskey Ditch has been well maintained in the past and
presumably will be well maintained in the future. As the section is uniform and
the alignment straight, a Manning's "n" of 0.025 was indicated. The "n" in
County Ditch No. 12 was chosen as 0.030. In determining the losses at the
triple box culvert in Whiskey Ditch, the exit loss was the difference in
velocity head in the triple box and in the exit channel. The "n" value used was
0.013 and the entrance loss as 15 percent of the velocity head in the triple
box.
   13. The capacities of pipe culverts have been computed in accordance with
the preliminary issue
of Chapter 2, Part CXVI of the Engineering Manual of Civil Works Construction.
Entrance loss and friction loss coefficients for concrete and corrugated metal
pipe were taken from the reports Hydraulic Tests on Concrete Culvert Pipes,
technical papers No. 4 series B, and No. 5, service B, respectively, published
by the St. Anthony Falls Hydraulic Laboratory, Minneapolis, Minnesota. A
tabulation of the various culvert loss coefficients follows:
 
Pipe             "n"   Entrance Loss    Exit Loss
                       Protruding Flush
Concrete         0.010 0.15       -     1.00
Corrugated Metal 0.025 0.78       0.49  1.00
 
   14. The velocity in the culverts at the head of County Ditch No. 12 with
design flow conditions is 10.05 feet per second, which requires a stilling
basin. The relation between velocity and depth is such that there is no
assurance that a hydraulic jump will operate successfully. Therefore, the
stilling basin is a simple expansion designed to reduce the exit velocities to
4.0 feet per second. In accordance with data presented in the discussion by Mr.
H.R. Henry to the article "Diffusion of Submerged Jets" in the 1950 Transaction
of the American Society of Civil Engineers, near-uniform distribution of the
velocities can be expected in a distance of 20 to 25 times the initial depth if
the submergence is not great.
   15. Conclusions. The major portion of the hydrologic analysis was based on
estimated or synthetic factors. In order to make due allowance for errors in
judgment, all estimates were made on a more conservative basis than would be
the case in a study where adequate data are available. In view of the fact that
floods are of short duration and there is little danger of the levees becoming
saturated, the run-off rate and levee freeboard used are considered to be
conservative. Although the design storm is based on a theoretical 100-year
rainfall, it is not considered that reliance should be placed on any frequency
curves for recurrence intervals longer than the period of record. However, the
project as based on the above analysis is adequate to protect the area against
all but the most unusual rainfalls.
('69 Code, Ch. 7 App. Exhibit A)
APPENDIX J: SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   Specific development standards are established to provide supplemental
regulations to address the unique characteristics of certain land uses. The
uses listed below are subject to the following specific development standards,
in addition to all other applicable regulations.
   ASPHALT MIXING AND MANUFACTURING PLANT
   Standards and Conditions
   (A)   All asphalt mixing and manufacturing plants shall be located at least
300 feet from a residential or commercial district boundary or from a
transitional zone where the city’s Comprehensive Plan shows residential or
commercial.
   (B)   All asphalt mixing and manufacturing facilities shall include a six
foot to ten foot fence or alternative screening method approved by the City
Planning Commission along all property lines.
   (C)   The use shall be conducted, operated, and maintained in accordance
with any necessary MPCA, Nobles County, and City of Worthington permits, copies
of which shall be provided to and maintained on file by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   All asphalt mixing and manufacturing facilities shall abut on and use
an arterial or collector street or road for vehicle access to the site.
Arterial and collector roads include Municipal State Aid streets, County State
Aid highways, trunk highways, and local roads intended and designed to
accommodate frequent use of heavy commercial vehicles.
   (E)   Any new asphalt mixing or manufacturing facilities and any substantial
intensification of an existing facility shall require the issuance of a new
conditional use permit. For the purpose of regulating an asphalt mixing or
manufacturing facility, substantial intensification shall mean any of the
following.
      (1)   Any expansion of the operating area of the facility, including, but
not limited to, its yard, storage areas, or vehicle maneuvering or parking
space.
      (2)   The addition of any structure or expansion to the bulk of any
structure, except additions and expansions designed primarily to provide
weather protection or noise or air pollution abatement for existing equipment.
   (F)   All asphalt mixing and manufacturing facilities shall provide the
following with any application for a conditional use permit.
      (1)   A map of natural features, including streams, rivers, lakes,
wetlands, and major topographical features located within 350 feet of the site
and all dwelling units and other principal buildings and structures within one
quarter mile of the exterior property lines of the proposed site.
      (2)   An air quality plan describing stationary and mobile source air
emissions, their quantities and composition, and indicating conformance with
all applicable air quality regulations.
      (3)   A dust management plan describing dust emission sources, their
quantity and composition, and how dust will be collected, managed, and disposed
of, and indicating conformance with all applicable dust emission regulations.
      (4)   A sound attenuation plan describing sources of sound and indicating
conformance with all applicable sound and noise regulations.
      (5)   A drainage plan for stormwater management and runoff.
      (6)   A traffic plan describing the number of truck/vehicle trips the
proposal will generate and the principal access routes to the facility,
including a description of the facility’s traffic impact on the surrounding
area.
(Ord. 1126, passed 11-13-18)
CHAPTER 156: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose and authority
   
156.02   Short title
   
156.03   Definitions
General Regulations
   
156.15   Height limits
   
156.16   Airspace obstruction zoning
   
156.17   Land use safety zoning
   
156.18   Airport zoning map
   
156.19   Nonconforming uses
   
156.20   Permits
   
156.21   Variances
   
156.22   Hazard marking and lighting
Administration
   
156.35   Airport Development Administrator
   
156.36   Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments
   
156.37   Appeals
   
156.38   Judicial review
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The Worthington Municipal Airport Joint Zoning Board, created and
established by joint action of the City Council of the City of Worthington and
the Board of County Commissioners of Nobles County, pursuant to the authority
of M.S. § 360.063, hereby finds and declares that:
   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of uses of the
Worthington Municipal Airport, and also endangers the occupants of land in its
vicinity and their property. Further, an obstructed airport hazard reduces the
size of the area available for the landing, take-off, and maneuvering of
aircraft. Therefore, these airport hazards tend to destroy or impair the
utility of the Worthington Municipal Airport and the public investment therein.
   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and injury to the region served by the Worthington Municipal Airport.
   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity and general welfare of the citizens of the city and the residents in
the area surrounding the airport, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport hazards.
   (D)   The prevention of airport hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power, and without
compensation.
   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards and
the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and lighting of
existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political subdivisions
may raise and expend public funds.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Worthington Municipal Airport Zoning
ordinance". Those sections of land affected by this chapter are indicated in
"Exhibit A" which is attached to the Airport Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires the following
definitions shall apply:
   AIRPORT. The Worthington Municipal Airport, as located in Sections 1 and 12,
Township 102 North, Range 40 West, and Section 7, Township 102 North, Range 39
West, and such other lands as may in the future be acquired for use for airport
purposes in conjunction with the described land.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area. This elevation is hereby established to be 1,572 feet
above mean sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure, tree, or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to the flight of the aircraft
in landing or taking off at the airport. It includes any use of land which is
hazardous to persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
   LAND. Wherever the word LAND is used in this chapter for the establishment
of protected zones, its meaning shall include any and all water surfaces.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
straight-in instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance, and for which no precision designation is
indicated on an approved planning document.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment hereto.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
   PLAN. As used in this chapter, refers only to those proposed future airport
developments that are indicated as "planned" on a planning document having the
approval of the Federal Aviation Administration, the Minnesota Department of
Aeronautics and the City of Worthington.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure, utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), or a Precision
Approach Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a Precision Instrument
Approach System is planned and is so indicated on an approved planning
document.
   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf-covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used, or planned to be used, for
the landing and/or taking off of the aircraft.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d4e4d1395d16d53f6320cf97b6f3d5f33f12c353/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5515.bmp]
   Slope = 3:1 = 3 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical
   STRUCTURE. Any object constructed or installed by man. It includes but is
not limited to buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmissions
lines.
   TRAVERSE WAYS. Any public or private roadway, railroad, or highway, such as
is traversed by any mobile object in its ordinary use.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure,
and no instrument approach designation indicated on an approved planning
document.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.15 HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this chapter or shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea
level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   All height limits set forth in any zone in this chapter shall be
increased in height over any traverse way as follows:
      (1)   Interstate highways: Increase height limit by 17 feet.
      (2)   All other public roadways: Increase height limit by 15 feet.
      (3)   Private roads: Increase height limit by 10 feet, or by the height
of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever
is greater.
      (4)   Railroads: Increase height limit by 23 feet.
      (5)   Waterways and all other traverse ways not previously mentioned:
Increase height limit by an amount equal to the highest object that would
normally traverse the waterway or other traverse way.
   (C)   Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.16 AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, as
set forth above, the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary
Zone, Horizontal Zone, Conical Zone, Precision Instrument Approach Zone, and
Transitional Zone. The locations and dimensions of these zones are as follows:
      (1)   Primary Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
primary surface, longitudinally centered on each runway, shall extend for 200
feet beyond the end of runway 11/29 and runway 17/35. The elevation of any
point on the primary surface shall be the same as the elevation of the nearest
point on the runway centerline. The width of the primary surface shall be 1,000
feet for runway 11/29 and 500 feet for runway 17/35. The width and length of
the primary surface for other runways shall be determined as such runways are
established.
      (2)   Horizontal Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface, 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
which is a height of 1,722 feet above mean sea level. The perimeter of the
horizontal zone shall be constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from
the center of each end of the primary surface of each runway, and by connecting
the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs. The radius of each arc shall
be 10,000 feet for runway 11/29 and for runway 17/35. The radius of each arc
for future runways shall be established when such runways are constructed.
      (3)   Conical Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface, extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface, at a slope of 20:1, for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet, as measured radially outward from the periphery of the horizontal
surface.
      (4)   Approach Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
approach surface, longitudinally centered on the extended centerline at each
end of each runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width
and elevation as, and coincides with the end of the primary surface. The
approach surface inclines upward at a slope of 40:1 for runway 17/35 and for
runway 11. The approach surface for runway 17/35 and runway 11 extends
uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet, at a distance of 10,000 feet, and then
continues at the same rate of divergence to the periphery of the conical
surface.
      (5)   Precision Instrument Approach Zone. All that land which lies
directly under an imaginary precision instrument approach surface,
longitudinally centered on the extended centerline of any runway designated as
a precision instrument runway. The inner edge of the precision instrument
approach zone is at the same width and elevation as, and coincides with the end
of the primary surface. The precision instrument approach surface inclines
upward at a slope of 50:1, for a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet, expanding
uniformly to a width of 4,000 feet, and then continues upward for an additional
horizontal distance of 40,000 feet, at a slope of 40:1, expanding uniformly to
an ultimate width of 16,000 feet.
      (6)   Transitional Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending upward and outward at right angles to the runway
centerline and extended at a slope of 7:1 from the sides of the primary
surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces, until they intersect the
horizontal surface or the conical surface. Transitional surfaces, for those
portions of any precision instrument approach surface which projects through
and beyond the limits of the conical surface, shall extend a distance of 5,000
feet, measured horizontally from the edge of the precision instrument approach
surface and at right angles to the extended precision instrument runway
centerline.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structures shall
be constructed, altered or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in
any airspace zone so as to project above any of the imaginary airspace surfaces
described in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The city may regulate the location, size, and
use of buildings and the density of population in any portion of any airport
hazard area which is under any approach zone for a distance not exceeding two
miles from the airport boundary. The city may also establish height restriction
zoning in those areas, for a distance not to exceed one and one-half miles from
the airport boundary.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.17 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)   Safety Zone purposes. Safety Zone shall be established for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   To restrict uses which may be hazardous to the operational safety
operating to and from the airport.
      (3)   To limit population and building density in the runway approach
areas, and thereby to create sufficient open space so as to protect life and
property in case of accident.
   (B)   Safety Zone boundaries. The following safety zones are hereby
established:
      (1)   Safety Zone A. All land in that portion of the approach zones of
runway 11/29 and runway 17, as set forth in § 156.16(A) which extends outward
from the end of the primary surface a distance equal to two-thirds of the
planned length of the runway. These distances shall be:
         (a)   4,733 feet for runway 11/29.
         (b)   3,333 feet for runway 17.
         (c)   For runway 35, all land in the approach zones north of the south
right-of-way of I-90.
      (2)   Safety Zone B. All that land in that portion of the approach zones
of runway 11/29 and runway 17, as set forth in § 156.16(A), which extends
outward from Safety Zone A, a distance equal to one-third of the planned length
of the runway. This distance shall be:
         (a)   2,367 feet for runway 11/29.
         (b)   1,667 feet for runway 17.
      (3)   Safety Zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the perimeter
of the horizontal zone, as set forth in § 156.16(A), and which is not included
in Zone A or Zone B.
   (C)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   General. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in § 156.16(B), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones set
forth in division (B) of this section, which:
         (a)   Creates or causes interference with the operations of radio or
electronic facilities of the airport, or with radio or electronic
communications between the airport and aircraft.
         (b)   Makes it difficult for pilots to distinguish between the airport
lights and other lights.
         (c)   Results in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport.
         (d)   Impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport.
         (e)   Otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of
aircraft.
      (2)   Zone A. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in § 156.16(B), and to the general restrictions contained in this division (C),
areas designated as Zone A areas shall contain no buildings or temporary
structures, exposed transmission lines or other similar above-ground structural
hazards. It shall be restricted to those uses which will not create, attract,
or bring together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include,
but are not limited to: agriculture, light outdoor recreation (non-spectator),
cemeteries and auto parking.
      (3)   Zone B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in § 156.16(B), and to the general restrictions contained in this division (C),
areas designated as Zone B shall be restricted in use as follows:
         (a)   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall be not less than
three acres.
         (b)   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage.
         (c)   Each site shall have not more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected.
         (d)   A building plot shall be a single, uniform and non-contrived
area, whose area shall not exceed the following minimum ratios with respect to
the total site area:
 
                  Ratio of Site Area to Building Plot Area  Maximum Site
Site Area (Acres) Building Plot Area    (square feet)       Population (15
                                                            persons/ acre)
Minimum - 3       12:1                  10,900              45
Maximum - 4       12:1
Minimum - 4       10:1                  17,400              60
Maximum - 6       10:1
Minimum - 6       8:1                   32,600              90
Maximum - 10      8:1
Minimum - 10      6:1                   72,500              150
Maximum - 20      6:1
Minimum - 20      4:1                   218,000             300
Maximum - and up  4:1
 
         (e)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone B:
churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadiums, hotels and motels, trailer
courts, camp grounds, multiple-family dwellings, and other places of public or
semi-public assembly.
      (4)   Zone C. Zone C is subject only to height restrictions set forth in
§ 156.16(B), and to the general restrictions set forth in this division (C).
   (D)   Boundary limitations. The municipality may regulate the location,
size, and use of buildings, and the density of population in that portion of an
airport hazard area under the approach zones for a distance, not to exceed two
miles from the airport boundary, and in other portions of an airport hazard
area, not to exceed one mile from the airport boundary.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.18 AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
   The several zones herein established are shown on the Worthington Municipal
Airport Zoning Map, consisting of four sheets, prepared by the City Engineer
and dated August 1, 1976, attached to the Airport Zoning Ordinance and made a
part of it. This map, together with such amendments thereto as may from time to
time be made, and all notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries,
and other information thereon, is hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.19 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or natural object not conforming to the regulations
on the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise to interfere with the
continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing herein contained shall require
any change in construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the
construction of which was begun prior to the effective date of this chapter,
and is diligently prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.20 PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance of permits. All permits provided for in this section shall be
applied for by written application to the Administrator, as defined and
provided for in § 156.35. Each application far a permit shall be made on forms
provided by the Administrator, and shall indicate the purpose for which the
permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to determine whether that
purpose conforms to the regulations contained in this chapter. If the
Administrator determines that this purpose conforms to the regulations
contained in this chapter, he shall grant the permit within 15 days of receipt
of a valid application. If the purpose does not so conform, the Administrator
shall notify the applicant in writing of the denial of the permit, giving
reasons therefor, within 15 days of receipt of the application. Any applicant
who has been denied a permit may apply for a variance from the provisions of
this chapter, pursuant to § 156.21, or appeal to the Board, pursuant to §
156.038(B).
   (B)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in this division (B), no
material change shall be made in the use of land, and no structure shall be
erected, altered or otherwise established in any zone hereby created, unless a
permit shall have been applied for and granted according to procedures outlined
in division (A) of this section.
      (1)   A permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet in vertical
height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and conical
zones or in the transitional zones beyond a horizontal distance of 4,200 feet
from each end of the runway or in that portion of the approach zones not
located within Safety Zone A and Safety Zone B as defined in § 156.17(B). A
permit shall be required for a tree or structure in the transitional zone
within a horizontal distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, for a
tree or structure in Safety Zone A and Safety Zone B, and for a tree or
structure which, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features,
would extend the height limit prescribed for the respective zone.
      (2)   Nothing contained in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
construed as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration, or
growth of any structure or tree in excess of any height limitations established
by this chapter as set forth in § 156.16.
   (C)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired or rebuilt in the transitional zones within a
horizontal distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway or in Safety
Zones A and B as defined in § 156.17(B), or in a manner which, because of
terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would extend the height limit
prescribed for the respective zone, a permit must be secured authorizing such
replacement, change, repair, or rebuilding. No permit shall be granted that
would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard, or permit a
nonconforming use, structure or tree to become a greater hazard to air
navigation than it was on the effective date of this chapter, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Administrator
determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been abandoned or more
that 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no permit shall be
granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height
limit or otherwise deviate from Zoning Regulations. Whether application is made
for a permit under this division (D), division (C) of this section, or not, the
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure, at his own expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct, or
equip the same in a manner necessary to cause it to conform to the provisions
of this chapter. In the event the owner of the nonconforming structure shall
neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after receipt of
written notice of such order, the Administrator may, by appropriate legal
action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed nonconforming
structure lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped, and assess the cost and
expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was located.
Unless such an assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of notice
thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the rate of 8%
per annum from the date the cost and expense is incurred, until paid, and shall
be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure or permit the growth of any tree on his property in any manner not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter may apply to the
Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments hereinafter provided for, for a
variance from such regulations. Such variances shall be allowed where it is
duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations in this
chapter would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, or where
the relief granted would not be contrary to the public interest, but would do
substantial justice and would be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
Provided, however, that any variance so allowed may be subject to any
reasonable conditions that the Board or Commissioner may deem necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Application for any variance permissible under this chapter shall
be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments in the form of a written
application for a permit, which shall be submitted by certified mail to each
member of the Board. All applications shall include a list of the names and
addresses of the owners of the land in such areas within 100 feet of the
property described in the application.
      (2)   Upon the receipt of such application and list, the Board shall set
a time and place for a public hearing before the Board. At least ten days
before the hearing, notice of the hearing shall be published once in the
official newspaper, and a copy of the notice shall be mailed to each of the
owners referred to in the list. After the public hearing has been held, the
Board shall grant or deny the application according to the procedures outlined
in § 156.36(B). The Board shall notify the applicant in writing of any denial,
giving reasons therefor.
   (C)   When the Board fails to grant or deny any variance within four months
after the last member receives the application, the variance shall be deemed to
have been granted by the Board. When the variance is granted by reason of the
failure of the Board to act on the variance, the person receiving the variance
shall notify the Board and the Commissioner of Transportation by certified mail
that the variance has been granted. The applicant shall include a copy of the
original application for the variance with this notice to the Commissioner. The
variance shall be effective 60 days after this notice is received by the
Commissioner, subject to any action taken by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S.
§ 360.063, Subdivision 6.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.22 HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses. The owner of any nonconforming structure or tree
is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the city.
   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit for a variance granted by the Board
may, if such action is deed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter, be conditioned upon the requirement that the owner of the structure or
tree for which the permit or variance is granted, at his own expense, install,
operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to
indicate the presence of an airport hazard.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
Penalty, see § 156.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 156.35 AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planner and Zoning Administrator of the city shall also function as the
Airport Development Administrator, hereinafter referred to as "Administrator".
It shall be the duty of the Administrator to hear and decide all applications
for permits submitted under the terms of this chapter, and to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.36 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Duties. The Board of Zoning Appeals and Adjustments shall have and
exercise the following powers in connection with the Airport Zoning Ordinance
and the Worthington Municipal Airport:
      (1)   To hear and decide the appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Administrator in the enforcement of this
chapter.
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which the Board may be required to pass by the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson, or in his absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board shall be public.
The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, sharing the vote of each
member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such
fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions,
all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the Board, and shall
be a public record. Upon their appointment, the members of any Board of
Adjustment shall select a Chairperson to act at the pleasure of the Board.
      (2)   The concurring vote of a majority of the markers of the Board shall
be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of
the administrative agency, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under the airport zoning regulations, or to
effect any variation in such regulations.
      (3)   Subject to the approval of the City Council, the Board may appoint
such clerical and technical assistants as may be needed to carry on its work.
It shall have the power to call upon any city official or department for
assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of any
such official or department to render such assistance as may be reasonably
expected.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.37 APPEALS.
   (A)   Standing. Any person aggrieved or affected by any decision of the
Administrator made in the administration of this chapter may appeal to the
Board. Such appeals may also be made by any governing body of a municipality,
county, or Airport Zoning Board which is of the opinion that a decision of the
Administrator is an improper application of this chapter as it concerns such
governing body or Board.
   (B)   Notice of appeal. All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 14
calendar days of the decision appealed, by filing with the Administrator and
with the Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof. The
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting
the record upon which the action was taken.
   (C)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings and the
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to
the Board after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reasons of
the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board on notice to the Administrator and on due
cause shown.
   (D)   Hearing. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
appeals, give notice by publication in the official newspaper at least ten days
prior to the hearing, as well as written notice to the parties in interest.
Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney. The
Board shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time.
   (E)   Conditions. The Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement,
decision, or determination as may be appropriate under the circumstances, and
to that end shall have all powers of the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.38 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Petition. Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any
decision of the Board, or by any action of the Commissioner taken under M.S. §
360.063, Subdivision 6 or 6a, or any governing body of a municipality, county,
or Airport Zoning Board which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board or
Commissioner is illegal, may present to the District Court of Nobles County a
verified petition, setting forth that the decision or action is illegal in
whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition
shall be presented to the Court within 30 days after the decision is filed.
   (B)   Exhaustion of remedies. Any person aggrieved by any regulation of this
chapter or by any action of the Administrator in the administration of the
regulations of this chapter must apply for a permit or variance or appeal to
the Board, and exhaust the remedies provided for in this chapter before
availing himself of the right to petition a court, as provided by this section.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change, alter, or
repair any existing structure or use, or permits the growth of any tree without
having complied with the provisions of this chapter; or who, having been
granted a permit or variance under the provisions of this chapter, shall
construct, establish, substantially change, alter or repair any existing growth
or structure, or permit the growth of any tree, except as permitted by such
permit or variance; shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $300, or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or
both. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The Administrator may enforce all provisions of this chapter through
such proceedings for injunctive relief or other relief as may be proper under
the laws of M.S. § 360.073 and other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 9-15-77)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   VACATED PROPERTY
      
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
      
V.   SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
166      ­          A tract starting at the northeast corner of Section 22,
                     Township 102, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     A tract platted as Cherry Point Park, and the tract
168      ­          platted as the Auditor's Plat of Godfrey's Subdivision of
                     that part of Government Lot 2 in Section 22, Township 102,
                     Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     That tract known as the Auditor's Plat of Ludlow Acres in
                     Government Lot 6, Section 26, Township 102 North, Range 40
169      ­          West, or part of Lots A, B, C and D Ludlow's Subdivision,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota, and that tract known as Blocks 5
                     and 6 of Auditor's Plat of Ludlow Acres.
171      ­          Part of the East Half of Section 22, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     The East 60 Acres of the Southeast Quarter of the
172      ­          Southwest Quarter of Government Lot 4 all in Section 27,
                     Township 102 North, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 27, part of the
176      ­          East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 28, and part
                     of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, all in Township
                     102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
187      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
189      ­          Part of the platted property known as North Worthington.
                     A tract in the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
197      ­          of Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota, with other lands.
                     A tract in the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter
206      ­          of Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
210      ­          A tract in the South Half of Section 14, Township 102,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
217      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 14, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of Government Lot 6 in Section 26, part of Government
218      ­          Lot 2 in Section 27 and part of Government Lot 3 in
                     Section 27, all in Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
227      ­          Part of North Worthington.
                     Part of Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
236      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     All of Shore Parker Subdivision of part of Government Lots
247      ­          3 and 4, Section 22, Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
248      ­          Part of Government Lots 3 and 4, Section 22, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
251      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
252      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
253      ­          Part of Section 26, Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter, Section
254      ­          14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
255      ­          Part of Government Lot 3 in Section 27, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
256      ­          Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
258      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
259      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section
260      ­          14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
261      ­          Part of North Worthington.
262      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 15, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
263      ­          Part of North Worthington.
274      ­          Part of Northeast Quarter of Section 22, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
275      ­          Part of Government Lot 6, Section 26, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the platted property known as Ludlow Acres in
289      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the platted property known as Ludlow Acres in
292      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the platted property known as Ludlow Acres in
296      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the platted property known as Ludlow Acres in
297      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the platted property known as Ludlow Acres in
299      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
303      ­          Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 28, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
305      ­          Part of Ludlow Acres, Section 27, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
308      ­          Part of Ludlow Acres, Section 27, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Lot 4 of Auditor's outlots 1 to 12, inclusive, in the
309      ­          South Half of Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40
                     West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of Ludlow Acres in Section 27, and part of the
314      ­          Southeast Quarter of Section 27, all in Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
316      ­          Part of Ludlow Acres, Section 27, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
317      ­          Part of Ludlow Acres, Section 27, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
319      ­          Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
320      ­          Part of Ludlow Acres in Section 26, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
327      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
328      ­          Part of the West Half of Section 26, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
331      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
334      ­          Part of Government Lot 1 in Section 27, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of Lot C in Ludlow's Subdivision of part of
344      ­          Government Lots 6 and 7, and part of Government Lot 6, all
                     in Section 26, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     Part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
347      ­          Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
351      ­          Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of Lot 7 of Auditor's Outlots 1 to 12, in the South
355      ­          Half of Section 14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
357      ­          Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
359      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 East, Nobles County, Minnesota.
362      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 15, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
363      ­          Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County Minnesota.
                     Part of Auditor's Plat of Block 11 of Ludlow Acres in the
364      ­          Northwest Quarter of Section 26, Township 102 North, Range
                     40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
365      ­          Annexing certain property to the city, including certain
                     unplatted lands (two tracts).
                     Lot 1, Block 6, Auditor's Plat of Government Lot 1,
366      ­          Section 27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles
                     County, Minnesota.
                     The West 640 feet of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13,
372      ­          Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
                     Lots 2, 3, 4 and 5, County Auditor's Plat of Buss Outlots
                     in the Northeast Quarter of Section 26, Northwest Quarter
374      ­          of Section 25, Southwest Quarter of Section 24 and the
                     Southeast Quarter of Section 23, all in Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County.
                     Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 27 and the
375      ­          Southwest Quarter of Section 26, all in Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
377      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 15, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Part of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, and
378      ­          part of Section 18, Township 102 North, Range 39 West, all
                     in Nobles County, Minnesota.
379      ­          Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
385      ­          Part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
388      ­          Annexing certain property to the city, including certain
                     unplatted lands (one tract).
                     Lot 10, Auditor's Plat of Block 7, Ludlow Acres, Section
393      ­          27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
                     Lot 1, Auditor's Plat of Block 8, Ludlow Acres, Section
395      ­          27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
399      ­          Part of the West Half of Section 22, Township 102 North,
                     Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     A tract in the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township
400      ­          102 North, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota, a tract in
                     the Northwest Quarter of such Section, and a tract in the
                     Southeast Quarter of Section 14, in such Township.
                     Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
401      ­          North, Range 40 West of the 5th P.M., Nobles County,
                     Minnesota.
406      ­          Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102
                     North, Range 40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
412      ­          Part of Sections 1 and 12, Township 102 North, Range 40
                     West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
413      ­          Part of Section 15, Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and the westerly 25 feet of Lot 11,
419      ­          Auditor's Plat of Buss Outlots in Section 26, Township
                     102, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
425      ­          Part of the South Title Section 15, Township 102, Range
                     40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
426      ­          Lot 1, County Auditor's Plat of Buss Outlots together with
                     tract of railroad right-of-way.
                     Annexing seven different tracts of land (Tract No. 1,
434      ­          Tract II, Tract III, Tract D, Tract E, Tract G and Tract
                     J), each of which is more fully described in the annexing
                     ordinance 434.
                     A tract of land containing 7.68 acres in the Southwest
450      ­          Quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40 West,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     The West Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 22,
453      ­          Township 102, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota,
                     containing 77.66 acres.
                     Land in Section 14, Township 102, Range 40, Nobles County,
461      ­          Minnesota, except part of the Southwest Quarter,
                     containing 0.8 acres.
                     A tract of land in Auditor's Plat of Sungold Heights in
464      ­          the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102, Range
                     40, Nobles County, Minnesota, containing 22.01 acres.
                     Part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
470      ­          Section 15, Township 102, Range 40, Nobles County,
                     Minnesota, containing 3.83 acres.
                     Block 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 in the Auditor's Plat of Sungold
471      ­          Heights in the Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township
                     102, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota, containing 1.96
                     acres.
480      ­          Part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 25, Township 102,
                     Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota, containing .65 acres.
                     Part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 27, and the
483      ­          Southeast Quarter of Section 26, Township 102, Range 40,
                     Nobles County, Minnesota, containing 8.7 acres.
                     The North 400 feet of the West 275 feet of the Northeast
594      ­          Quarter of Section 30, Township 102, North of Range 39,
                     West of the 5th P.M., Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Annexing certain unincorporated property owned by the city
724      7-25-88     and abutting upon the limits of the city, such property
                     being more specifically described in annexing ordinance
                     724.
                     Annexing 4.49 acres of unplatted land located in the
814      8-14-95     Northeast Quarter of Section 28, Township 102 North, Range
                     40 West, Nobles County, Minnesota.
848      11-10-97    Annexing land in the Northeast Quarter of Section 30,
                     Township 102, Range 39, Nobles County, Minnesota.
                     Annexing that part of the north 50 feet of Section 33,
881      9-13-99     Township 102 North, Range 40 West, lying east of the west
                     right-of-way line of County Road 10.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 1.29
                     acres of unplatted land owned by Dale and Jane Molitor:
                     the south 225 feet of the east 219 feet of the Northwest
921      5-14-01     Quarter, and the west 35 feet of the south 200 feet in the
                     Northeast Quarter - both of which are currently within the
                     city and part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 12,
                     Township 102, Range 40 West.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
1007     11-13-07    93.33 acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned
                     by Joel and Julie Lorenz.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
1061     11-26-12    6,509 square feet of unplatted land abutting the city and
                     owned by Ridley USA, Inc.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 6.5
1095     5-23-16     acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned by
                     Allen and Kimberly Drost.
1098     7-11-16     Amending Ordinance 1095 to revise land description.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 29
1106     9-26-17     acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned by
                     South Shores Acres, LLC.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 29
1111     12-26-17    acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned by
                     South Shore Acres, LLC.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city ton include
1184     6-27-22     7.88 acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned
                     by Ridley Inc.
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
1207     10-14-24    70.00 acres of unplatted land abutting the city and owned
                     by Bedford Industries, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Providing for a telephone system and exchange, and
71       ­          granting to C. J. Smalwood, his successors and assigns the
                     right to operate and maintain the same.
                     Granting permission and authority to the Cedar Rapids,
72       ­          Iowa Falls & Northwestern Railroad Company to construct,
                     maintain and operate its railway across and upon certain
                     streets and avenues.
                     Granting to Minnesota Natural Gas Company, its successors
                     or assigns the right and privilege to use and occupy the
222      ­          streets, alleys and public places of the city for the
                     purpose of maintaining, using, owning and operating gas
                     works within the city, and setting forth conditions
                     accompanying the grant of the franchise.
                     Granting to Greeley Gas Company, a Colorado Corporation,
                     its successors or assigns the right and privilege to use
                     and occupy the streets, alleys and public places of the
                     city for the purpose of supplying, distributing and
                     selling gas to the inhabitants of the city and elsewhere,
562      ­          and the right and privilege of constructing and thereafter
                     maintaining a gas works, mains, service pipes and other
                     necessary equipment in the city for the distribution of
                     gas, and to manufacture, convey, distribute and sell gas
                     for power, light, fuel, heat and other purposes, and
                     fixing-the rights, powers and duties of the grantee.
                     Creating and awarding the cable communications franchise
632      ­          in the city, and rules governing the operation of the
                     same.
640      ­          Amending ordinance 632 as to the location of the tower for
                     the cable communications franchise.
                     Amending the cable television franchise ordinance to
                     provide that the franchise fee is available for the
819      1-22-96     funding of professional advice, including technical and
                     legal assistance, at the time of the cable television
                     franchise ordinance renewal.
                     Granting a franchise to Zylstra Communications Corporation
                     pursuant to Ordinance 632 to construct, operate and
835      6-23-97     maintain a cable television system in the city, and
                     setting forth conditions accompanying the grant of the
                     franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to Dakota Telecom, Inc. to construct,
867      9-28-98     operate and maintain a cable television system in the city
                     and setting forth the conditions accompanying the grant of
                     the franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to Aquila, Inc. to construct and
944      12-23-02    operate a natural gas distribution system in the city and
                     setting forth conditions accompanying the grant of the
                     franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to Mediacom Minnesota LLC to
1053     6-11-12     construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system
                     in the city, setting forth conditions accompanying the
                     grant of the franchise.
                     Granting a franchise to Knology of the Plains, Inc. to
1069     7-8-13      construct, operate and maintain a cable system and provide
                     cable service in the city and setting forth conditions
                     accompanying the grant of the franchise.
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATED PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
29   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 15 and 16 in Block 8.
38   ­     Vacating First Avenue Southwest from Ninth Street, and Eighth Street
            Southeast from Second Avenue.
40   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 3 and 4 in Block 8.
41   ­     Vacating certain alleys in the Original Townsite.
42   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 11 and 12 in Block 12.
43   ­     Amending Ordinance 42.
47   ­     Vacating certain alleys in the Original Townsite.
48   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 11 and 12 in Block 7.
50   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 9 and 10 in Block 8.
51   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 13 and 14 in Block 9.
53   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 17 and 18 in Block 8.
54   ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 4 and 5 and 8 and 9 in Block 42.
84   ­     Vacating that certain alley lying between Lots 23 and 24 in Block 18.
278  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 2 and 3 and between Lots 10 and 11,
            Block 32, Original Townsite.
            Vacating that part of First Avenue extending from its intersection with the
283  ­     east line of Minnesota Trunk Highway No. 15-59-60 to its intersection with
            the south line of Dover Street.
286  ­     Vacating part of Spring Avenue south of the south line of Dover Street.
291  ­     Vacating the south 60 feet of South Douglas lying north of the right-of-way
            of the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railway right-of-way.
293  ­     Vacating a certain alley in Block 2, Johnson's Subdivision, of Block 10,
            Mouton's Resurvey & Subdivision of Clary's Addition.
294  ­     Vacating the alleys in Block 1, Clifton Addition.
295  ­     Vacating certain alleys in North Lake Subdivision and Auditor's Plat of
            Schumm's Addition.
304  ­     Vacating the alley in Block 5, Clifton Addition.
            Vacating the alley lying between Lot 5 and Lot 6 in Albinson & Broberg's
307  ­     Subdivision of Lot 20, and parts of Lots 1, 2, 14, and 15 in Block 53,
            Second Addition to the city.
            Vacating a portion of Liberty Drive and that portion of the public road
312  ­     lying and being along the west line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 22,
            Township 102, Range 40, Nobles County, Minnesota.
332  ­     Vacating all that portion of Virginia Avenue situated in Auditor's Plat of
            Bristol's Subdivision.
342  ­     Vacating alleys in Ramages Subdivision.
343  ­     Vacating part of the turnaround at the south end of Orchard Road.
345  ­     Vacating the alley lying and being between Lots 3 and 11, Block 4,
            Auditor's Plat of Chermak's Subdivision.
            Vacating the alley between Lot 20 and the northeast five feet of Lot 15,
354  ­     all of Lots 16, 17, 18, 19, and the vacated alley lying between Lots 17 and
            18, all in Block 18, Original Townsite of the city.
384  ­     Vacating all of Lake View Drive in Lakeshore Parker's Subdivision.
            Vacating all that portion of Sixth Avenue lying between the southwesterly
404  ­     line of Eleventh Street and the northeasterly line of the alley lying
            between Lots 8 and 9, Block 24, and between Lots 4 and 5, Block 27,
            Original Townsite of the city.
405  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 2 and 3 and between Lots 10 and 11,
            all in Block 27, Original Townsite of the city.
417  ­     Vacating the alley between Lots 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, and Lots 13, 14,
            15, 16, 17 and 18, all in Block 7, Clifton Addition to the city.
418  ­     Vacating that part of South Clifton Avenue lying south of the north line of
            Block 5, Sunnyview Addition, extended, in the city.
            Vacating the alley lying between Lots 3 and 6, Block 1, Auditor's plat of
420  ­     Block D, Clement's Addition, and Lots 12 and 13, Ehler's Subdivision of
            Block C, Clement's Addition.
421  ­     Vacating the alley which separates Blocks 1 and 2 from Blocks 3 and 4, all
            in Auditor's plat of Ager's Subdivision.
435  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 2 and 3 in Block 17, Original
            Townsite of the city.
446  ­     Vacating all of Cecilee Street in Darling's first Addition in the city.
448  ­     Vacating a portion of the alley abutting Lot 1, Block 18, Original Townsite
            of the city.
476  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 8 and 9, Block 36, Original Townsite
            of the city.
478  ­     Vacating a portion of the street known as Shady Lane.
            Vacating the alley line between Lots 1 through 8, 10 and 11, Block 1,
493  ­     Boote's Addition, and the alley line between Lot 11, Block 1 and Block 3,
            Boote's Addition.
502  ­     Vacating the alley line between Lots 10 and 11, Block 42, Original Townsite
            of the city.
510  ­     Vacating the alley line between Lots 6 and 7, Norton-Sharp Addition, and
            the street line directly north of Lots 1 through 7, Norton-Sharp Addition.
512  ­     Vacating the alley line between Lots 8 and 9, Block 16, Original Townsite
            of the city.
            Vacating a portion of Liberty Drive beginning at the northeast corner of
513  ­     Lot 11, Block 5, Cherry Point Park Addition, containing 0.007 acres, more
            or less.
517  ­     Vacating the alley line between Lots 1 through 7 and Lot 18, Clement's
            Subdivision of Block 55, Second Addition.
522  ­     Vacating the alley line between Lots 15 and 16, Block 18, Original Townsite
            of the city.
541  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 19 and 18, and the vacated alley
            between Lots 18 and 17, and Lot 20, Block 8, Original Townsite in the city.
544  ­     Vacating a portion of Franklin Street from the intersection with Sherwood
            Street to the Chicago, Rock Island & Pacific Railroad right-of-way.
545  ­     Vacating College View Heights Park.
585  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and Lots 8 and 9,
            Paulson's Addition.
646  ­     Vacating the alley lying between Lots 11 and 12, Block 12, Original
            Townsite in the city.
            Vacating the northwesterly .7 feet of Tenth Street right-of-way abutting
674  ­     the northwesterly 42 feet of the southeasterly 100 feet of Lot 6, Block 27,
            Original Townsite in the city.
701  3-10-  Vacating the alley described as Lot 11, Block 2, Original Townsite of the
     86     city.
705  5-12-  Vacating the alley in Block 1, Deuth's Addition.
     86
707  8-11-  Vacating the street right-of-way located between Block 1 and Block 2,
     86     College View Heights Addition.
709  3-9-87 Vacating part of platted public utility easement along the north side of
            Northland Mall First Addition.
711  4-14-  Vacating Dale Street, Green Thumb Addition.
     87
712  6-22-  Vacating part of the platted public utility easement in Darling's First
     87     Addition.
731  1-9-89 Vacating the extension of Betty Avenue from Sundown Drive to Crailsheim
            Road (County Highway 10), College View Heights Addition.
734  3-27-  Vacating the two alleys in Block 36, Original Townsite in the city.
     89
743  11-13- Vacating the platted public utility easement in Circle Second Addition.
     89
750  3-12-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in Homewood Hills Second
     90     Addition.
753  4-9-90 Vacating the platted public utility easement in Okabena Heights Addition.
757  6-11-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in Homewood Hills Seventh
     90     Addition.
758  7-9-90 Vacating the platted public utility easement in Darling's First Addition.
759  7-23-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in Castlewood Knolls.
     90
761  10-22- Vacating an alley in Block 4, Moulton's Resurvey and Subdivision of Clary's
     90     Addition.
763  2-11-  Vacating a portion of Fourth Avenue abutting Lot 7, Block 38.
     91
767  6-24-  Vacating part of Bio Drive abutting Lots 1 through 6, Block 1, Oxford
     91     Addition.
769  7-8-91 Vacating all platted public utility easements in Lots 2 through 14, Block 4
            and Lots 4 through 25, Block 5, Castlewood Knolls Addition.
775  3-9-92 Vacating parts of platted public utility easements in Lot 4, Gateway
            Addition.
783  11-23- Vacating part of a platted public utility easement in Lot 4, and the west
     92     15 feet of Lot 5, all in Block 4, Morningside Addition.
784  11-23- Vacating part of a platted public utility easement in Lot 2, Block 5,
     92     Homewood Hills Fourth Addition.
793  8-23-  Vacating part of a platted public utility easement in Lots 4 through 9,
     93     Block 1, Homewood Hills First Addition.
800  5-23-  Vacating part of a platted public utility easement in Lots 4 and 5, Block
     94     1, College View Heights Addition.
802  7-11-  Vacating part of a platted public utility easement in Lot 1, Block 1,
     94     Homewood Hills First Addition.
809  3-10-  Vacating a portion of Eighth Street abutting Block 12.
     95
826  1-13-  Vacating a portion of an unnamed street in the Southwest Quarter of Section
     97     14.
831  4-14-  Vacating an unnamed north-south street abutting Block 2, Darling's Second
     97     Addition.
            Vacating a portion of Clifton Avenue abutting Block 6, Clifton Addition,
855  2-9-98 and an adjacent alley between Lot 7 and Lots 4 through 6, Block 6, Clifton
            Addition.
866  9-14-  Vacating an unnamed alley described as the east-west alley between Lots 1
     98     and 8, Block 4, Clifton Addition.
            Vacating an unnamed alley described as the north-south alley lying between
875  3-8-99 Lots 9 through 20 in Block 13 of Moulton's Resurvey and Subdivision of
            Clary's Addition.
884  10-11- Vacating the platted public utility easement in Lot 4, Block 1, Homewood
     99     Hills Third Addition.
894  7-10-  Vacating the alley lying between Lots 4 and 5 and between Lots 8 and 9 in
     00     Block 27, Plat of Worthington.
919  3-12-  Vacating an unnamed east-west street in the Southwest Quarter of Section
     01     14, Township 102 North, Range 40 West.
936  7-8-02 Vacating a public utility easement in Lot 6, Block 2, Lakeview Heights II
            addition.
940  8-12-  Vacating the alley lying between Lots 2 and 3 and 10 and 11, and between
     02     Lots 4 and 5 and 8 and 9, Plat of Worthington.
945  6-9-03 Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 4, Block
            1, Homewood Hills Ninth Addition.
946  6-9-03 Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 9, Block
            2, Homewood Hills Ninth Addition.
951  9-22-  Vacating part of platted public utility easement in Lot 15, Block 15,
     03     Blocks 15 and 16 Ludlow Acres.
953  10-27- Vacating part of platted public utility easement in Lot 5, Block 18, Blocks
     03     18, 19 and 20 Ludlow Acres.
959  1-12-  Vacating a part of 13th Street, also being Street Lot D, Auditor's Plat,
     04     Chermak's Subdivision.
969  9-13-  Vacating the part of 13th Street lying between Block 4 and Block 5, East
     04     Addition.
971  10-25- Vacating the public utility easement in Lot Four, Block Three, Homewood
     04     Hills Seventh Addition.
972  10-25- Vacating part of the alleys and 13th Street in and abutting Block 4,
     04     Auditor's Plat, Chermak's Subdivision.
     1-10-  Vacating that portion of an alley lying between Lot 7 and Lots 8, 9, 10 and
976  05     11, Block 18, that lies southwesterly of the northeasterly line of Lot 11
            extended northwesterly to the southeasterly line of Lot 7.
977  6-13-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 9, Block
     05     1, Dano Addition.
977  6-13-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 9, Block
     05     1, Dano Addition.
985  4-10-  Vacating part of an alley in Lot A, Block 2, Auditor's Plat, Chermak's
     06     Subdivision.
988  5-22-  Vacating all of the alley lying between Lots 2 and 11, and Lots 3 and 10,
     06     all in Block 23, Plat of Worthington.
990  7-24-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 23, Block
     06     4, Lakeview Heights Addition.
991  9-11-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 12, Block
     06     2, Homewood Hills Second Addition.
994  9-25-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 5, Block
     06     1, Northland Park Second Addition.
1006 10-22- Vacating the platted public utility easement in Lot 1, Block 1, Homewood
     07     Hills Eleventh Addition.
1008 1-14-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in the south 10 feet of Block
     08     1, Country Village Apartments subdivision, except the east 10 feet thereof.
1012 6-23-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in the east 10 feet of the
     08     south 166.27 feet of Block 1, Country Village Apartments subdivision.
     6-23-  Vacating the platted public utility easement in the south 283.68 feet of
1013 08     the east 10 feet of lot 30 and the south 283.68 feet of the west 10 feet of
            lot 31, all in Block 1, Worthington Industrial Park.
1017 10-13- Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lots 12 and
     08     13, Block 3, Okabena Heights Addition.
1019 11-10- Vacating the platted public utility easement in Lot 4, Block 1, Castlewood
     08     Knolls.
1022 1-26-  Vacating a platted public utility easement in Lots 6 and 7, Block 4,
     09     Sungold Heights mobile home park.
1035 8-9-10 Vacating Circle Drive from 50 feet west of the westerly right-of-way line
            of Spring Avenue to the northerly right-of-way line of East Avenue.
            Vacating all that part of 9th Street and First Avenue abutting Block 3,
1042 5-9-11 Plat of Worthington, Nobles County, Minnesota, also described as 9th Street
            and First Avenue from the southeasterly line of Second Avenue to the
            southwesterly line of 10th Street.
1048 10-10- Vacating a portion of the platted utility easement in Lot 3, Block 2,
     11     Orchard Knoll Addition, being the west 3.00 feet of the east 6.00 feet.
1057 7-9-12 Vacating part of platted public utility easements in Lots 1 and 2, Block 2,
            Prairie Expo First Addition.
1060 11-26- Vacating part of platted public utility easement in Lot 2, Block 1, Morning
     12     View First Addition.
1071 7-22-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 12, Block
     13     2, Dano Addition.
1075 11-25- Vacating the platted public utility easement in Lot 28, Block 4, Lakeview
     13     Heights Addition.
1076 12-9-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 3, Block
     13     2, Homewood Hills Third Addition.
1088 8-24-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 7, Block
     15     3, College View Heights Addition.
            Vacating a portion of Sixth Avenue lying between the northeasterly line of
1092 5-9-16 Tenth Street and the northeasterly line of the alley lying between Lots 8
            and 9, Block 24, and between Lots 4 and 5, Block 27.
1096 6-13-  Vacating a portion of the platted public utility easement in Lot 5, Block
     16     2, Homewood Hills Third Addition.
1105 9-11-  Vacating part of Alley Lot A, Block 2, Auditor’s Plat of Chermak’s Sub-
     17     Division.
1127 11-26- Vacating various public utility easements and public drainage and utility
     18     easements in Merck Addition.
1138 6-10-  Vacating part of Ninth Street lying between Block 8 and Block 9.
     19
1139 6-24-  Vacating part of former Eighth Street as platted in Lake Shore Park
     19     Subdivision.
            Vacating part of the alley lying between Lot 2, 3, 4 and 5, Block 4,
1155 1-13-  Clifton Addition to the village (now City) of Worthington, Nobles County
     20     Minnesota lying north of the northeasterly right-of-way of Trunk Highway 59
            and 60.
     11-9-  Vacating part of the alley lying between Lot 11 and Lot 12, together with
1163 20     that part of the alley abutting the southeast line of Lot 7, Block 18, Plat
            of Worthington.
1191 12-12- Vacating platted public utility easements and public drainage and utility
     22     easements in Glenwood Heights First Addition.
           
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Editor's note:
The following ordinances were listed in Chapter 8 of the 1969 Code as being
adopted for the purpose of amending the Zoning Map, and such ordinances
continue in full force and effect: 346, 347-a, 348, 353, 358, 361, 367, 368,
376, 382, 398, 407, 410, 424, 429, 433, 438, 439, 455, 456, 457, 472, 479, 482,
485, 486, 488, 489, 495, 497, 498, 499, 500, 504, 507, 509, 514, 516, 518, 519,
521, 527, 528, 529, 533, 535, 539, 546, 547, 553, 559, 563, 564, 565, 566, 572,
573, 581, 583, 584, 586, 587, 588, 591, 592, 595, 597, 604, 606, 612, 613, 620,
621, 653, 676, and 677.
The following ordinances have since been adopted for the purpose of amending
the Zoning Map, and such ordinances continue in full force and effect: 683,
685, 686, 716, 717, 718, 720, 721, 727, 729, 730, 736, 739, 749, 752, 760, 764,
765, 766, 770, 772, 776, 780, 782, 785, 787, 801, 805, 806, 807, 810, 811, 813,
815, 817, 832, 849, 850, 858, 859, 860, 862, 863, 865, 872, 873, 874, 877, and
879.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
890  4-10-00  Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 of Paulsen's Addition to the city, from B-3 to R-3.
891  4-24-00  Rezoning the following properties from TZ to Planned Unit Development No. 2:
              Lots 21, 22, 23, 24, and that part of Lot 26, County Auditor's Plat of Buss
            Outlots, and that part of Government Lot 3, Section 26, Township 102, Range 40,
              commencing at a point on the east line of Township Highway.
              That part of Lot 26 of County Auditor's Plat of Buss Outlots of Government Lot 3
            in Section 26, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, commencing at an existing iron
              stake on the east line of Township Highway.
              Amending Ord. 772 by rezoning part of the southeast quarter of the northwest
892  6-12-00  quarter of Section 22, Township 102 North, Range 40 West from S to a Residential
              Planned Unit Development.
              Rezoning Lots 6, 7, 8, 15, and 16 of Block 1 Cherry Point Park, together with
895  7-10-00  that part of Lots 9, 10 12, 13, and 14 in Block 1, lying southwesterly of a
              point on the north line of Lake Avenue, from R-3 to Planned Unit Development No.
              8.
              Rezoning that part of the southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of the
897  10-9-00  northeast quarter of the southeast quarter, all in Section 22, Township 102
              North, Range 40 West, commencing at the center of Section 22, from I to R-4.
916  12-26-00 Amending Section II, Article 3 of Ord. 810.
922  5-14-01  Amending Ord. 895 to:
              (a) rezone subject property (Lots 6, 7, 8, 15 and 16 of Block 1 of Cherry Point
            Park; and a southwestern portion of Lots 9, 10, 12, 13 and 14 in Block 1) from
              R-3 to Planned Unit Development No. 8; and
            (b) establish requirements and conditions for Planned Unit Development No. 8.
923  5-29-01  Amending Section II, Article 2.6, Paragraph 5 of Ord. 863, re: temporary storm
              water runoff.
925  8-27-01  Rezoning property in Benson's Addition, presently included in both B-3 and R-
              3 districts, to henceforth be included only in the B-3 district.
935  6-10-02  Rezoning property in the southwest quarter of Section 15, Township 102 North,
              Range 40 West from TZ and R-1 to Planned Unit Development.
941  10-14-02 Rezoning property in the northwest quarter of Section 24, Township 102, Range 40
              from B-3 and TZ to M.
              Rezoning part of the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 22, Township
948  7-14-03  102 North, Range 40 West from B-1 Neighborhood Business to R-4 Multi-Family
              Medium Density Residential.
954  11-10-03 Rezoning Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8, Block 4, College View Heights Addition
              from I Institutional to R-1 One Family Detached Residential.
960  3-8-04   Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 and Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Prairie Expo First Addition,
              from TZ Transitional Zone District to Planned Unit Development.
              Rezoning property in the south half of the northeast quarter and the north half
965  5-10-04  of the southeast quarter of Section 28, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from
              TZ Transitional Zone District to R-1 One Family Detached Residential.
              Rezoning property in the southwest quarter of Section 15, Township 102 North,
978  6-13-05  Range 40 West, from TZ Transitional Zone District to R-1 One Family Detached
              Residential.
              Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 and Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Prairie Expo First Addition,
983  2-27-06  and property in the northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range
              40 West, from TZ Transitional Zone District to Planned Unit Development No. 7.
              Rezoning the east 125.4 feet of Lot 13, Block 14, Moulton's Resurvey and
984  3-13-06  Subdivision of Clary's Addition from R-3 Low Density Preservation Residential to
              B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning the west 145.2 feet of Lot 19, Block 14, Moulton's Resurvey and
995  9-25-06  Subdivision of Clary's Addition from R-3 Low Density Preservation Residential to
              B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning that part of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section
999  2-12-07  27, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from I Institutional to R-1 Single Family
              Detached Residential.
1001 8-13-07  Rezoning Lot 3, Block 1, Chermarks’ Subdivision from R-3 Low Density
              Preservation Residential to B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning the south 650 feet of the north 685 feet of the east 755 feet of the
1011 4-30-08  west 1,766.76 feet of the northeast quarter, Section 14, Township 102N, Range
              40W, City of Worthington, Nobles County, Minnesota, from TZ Transitional Zone to
              M-2 General Manufacturing.
              Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 28,
1016 9-8-08   Township 102N, Range 40W from R-1 One Family Detached Residential District to a
              Residential Planned Unit Development (PUD) District #10.
              Rezoning a parcel of land located in the northwest quarter of Section 22,
1018 10-13-08 Township 102N, Range 40W from (I) Institutional to Planned Unit Development
              No.3.
1025 5-11-09  Rezoning a parcel of land located in Government Lot 4, Section 19, Township 102
              North, Range 39 from TZ Transitional Zone to R-4 Medium Density Residential.
              Rezoning all of Block 1 and Lots 1 and 2, Block 2, Morning View First Addition,
1029 9-14-09  from TZ Transitional Zone to R-2 One Family Low Density Residential; rezoning
              Lots 3 through 6, Block 2 and all of Block 3, Morning View First Addition, from
              TZ Transitional Zone to R-4 Medium Density Residential.
1033 7-12-10  Rezoning a tract of land in the northeast quarter of Section 14, Township 102N,
              Range 40W from R-6 Mobile Home Residential to B-3 General Business.
1036 10-12-10 Rezoning the east 53.3 feet of Lots 10 and 11, Block 2, Clifton Addition from B-
              3 General Business to R-3 Low Density Preservation Residential.
              Rezoning all of Block 3, Original Plat of the City of Worthington, together with
              part of Block 2, Original Plat of the City of Worthington and part of the
1039 3-28-11  southwest quarter of the southeast fractional quarter of Section 23, Township
              102N, Range 40W from M-1 Light Manufacturing and M-2 General Manufacturing to B-
              2 Central Business.
1043 7-11-11  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 22, Township 102N, Range 40W
              from S Natural Features to R-4 Medium Residential Density.
              Rezoning property described as West 1/2 of Lots 15 and 16, Block 13, Moulton’s
1056 6-25-12  Resurvey and Subdivision of Clary’s Addition, from R-3 Low Density Preservation
              Residential to B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning property described as all of Block 35, Plat of Worthington (Original
1058 7-9-12   Townsite), from R-4 One Family Detached Residential to PUD Planned Unit
              Development District #11.
              Rezoning property described as all that part of the Northeast Quarter of the
1063 12-10-12 Southeast Quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North Range 40 West, from TZ
              Transitional Zone to R-2 Low Density Residential.
              Rezoning property described as Block 1, Prins Addition from M-1 Light
1078 3-12-14  Manufacturing to B-3 General Business and rezoning property described as that
              part of the Southwest 1/4 Section 14, from M-1 Light Manufacturing to M-
              2 General Manufacturing.
              Rezoning property described as the west 140 feet of Lot 12, Block 14, Moulton’s
1081 7-14-14  re-survey and subdivision of Clary’s Addition from R-3 Low Density Preservation
              Residential to B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning property described as part of Government Lots 3 and 4 of Section 19,
1084 4-13-15  Township 102 North, Range 39 West, from TZ Transitional Zone to M-1 Light
              Industrial.
              Rezoning property described as Lot 1 of the Auditor’s Outlots 1 to 12, inclusive
1090 1-11-16  in the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North,
              Range 40 West, with exceptions as listed in Ordinance 1090 from M-2 General
              Manufacturing to M-1 Light Manufacturing.
1091 1-11-16  Rezoning property described as Lots 1 and 2 , Darling’s Second Addition from R-
              1 One Family Detached Residential to R-2 One Family Low Density Residential.
              Rezoning property described as Lots 10, 11, 12 and 13, all in Auditor’s Plat of
1093 5-9-16   Part of the West Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102N,
              Range 40W, from R-1 One Family Detached Residential to R-5 Multi-Family, Medium
              and High Density Residential.
              Rezoning property described as a tract of land in the Southeast Quarter of the
     5-9-     Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from R-1 One
1094 16    Family Detached Residential, R-5 Multi-Family, Medium and High Density
              Residential, B-3 General Business and B-4 Shopping Center to B-3 General
              Business.
              Rezoning property described as that part of the Northeast Quarter of the
1097 6-13-16  Southwest Quarter, Section 13, Township 102, Range 40, from R-2 One Family, Low
              Density Residential to R-4 Medium Density Residential.
              Amending City Ordinances 960 and 983 so as to replace Illustration No. 2
1100 11-14-16 referenced in § 2.1 of PUD No. 7 with revised Illustration No. 2 entitled
              “Prairie Expo Use Group Regulations/Definitions” which is attached to Ord. 1100
              as Exhibit A.
              Rezoning property described as a tract of land in the Northwest Quarter of
1107 10-9-17  Section 22, Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from S Natural Features District
              and R-4 Residential District to a PUD Residential Planned Unit Development
              District.
1110 12-26-27 Rezoning property described as the North 200 feet of Lot 10, Block 53, Second
              Addition, from R-3 Low Density Preservation to B-3 General Business.
              Rezoning property described as a tract of land in the Northwest Quarter of
              Section 22, Township 102 North, Range 40 West; and rezoning property described
1117 8-27-18  as that part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 22,
              Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from I Institutional District and PUD Planned
              Use Development to R-5 Multi-Family, Medium and High Density.
              Rezoning property described as East 140.2' of Lot 19, Block 14, Moulton’s
1119 9-10-18  Resurvey and Subdivision of Clary’s Addition from R-3 Low Density Preservation
              Residential to B-3 General Business District.
              Rezoning property described as that part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 23,
1121 10-8-18  and the Northwest Quarter of Section 26, all in Township 102 North, Range 40
              West from M-2 General Industrial to B-2 Central Business District.
              Rezoning property described as that part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 24,
1122 10-8-18  the Southeast Quarter of Section 23, and the Northwest Quarter of Section 26,
              all in Township 102 North, Range 40 West from M-2 General Industrial to B-
              3 General Business District.
1123 10-8-18  Rezoning property described as that part of Government Lot 4, Section 26,
              Township 102, Range 40 from TZ Transition Zone to B-3 General Business District.
              Rezoning property described as the Northeast quarter of Section 26, all in
1130 1-14-19  Township 102 North, Range 40 West from M-2 General Industrial to B-2 Central
              Business District.
              Rezoning property described as the Southeast quarter of Section 23, Township 102
1131 1-14-19  North, Range 40 West from B-3 General Commercial to B-2 Central Business
              District.
1132 1-14-19  Rezoning property described as the Northeast quarter of Section 26, Township 102
              North, Range 40 West from M-2 General Industrial to B-3 General Commercial.
1133 1-14-19  Rezoning Lots 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, Block 6 from B-3 General Commercial to R-
              4 Medium Density Residential District.
              Rezoning property described as the West half of the Northwest quarter of Section
1136 5-13-19  22, Township 102 North, Range 40 West from R-4 Medium Density Residential
              District to R-5 Multi-Family, Medium and High Density.
              Rezoning property described as the South half of the Northeast quarter and the
1140 6-24-19  North half of the Southeast quarter of Section 28, Township 102 North, Range 40
              West from R-1 One Family Detached Residential to R-2 One Family, Low Density
              Residential.
              Rezoning property described as the Northeast quarter of the Southwest quarter of
1141 6-24-19  Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40 West from R-4 Medium Density
              Residential to R-5 Multi-Family, Medium and High Density
1142 7-8-19   Rezoning property described as Lot 4, Block 1, Apel Chermak Subdivision from R-
              3 Low Density Preservation Residential to B-3 General Commercial.
              Rezoning property described as Lot 1, Block 1, South Lake Subdivision, inclusive
1143 7-8-19   of Common Interest Community No. 26, No. 26-A, No. 26-B, South lake Condominium
              from R-1 One Family Detached Residential to PUD Planned Unit Development
              District no. 13.
              Rezoning property described as Lot 10, County Auditor’s plat of the Southwest
1145 9-9-19   quarter of Section 12, Township 102 North, Range 40 West and the easement lot
              lying between Lots 9 and 10 of said County Auditor’s plat from TZ Transition
              Zone to R-1 One Family Detached Residential.
              Amending City Ordinance 810 regarding the site plan of the PUD prepared by
              Madsen Land Surveying dated August 1, 2019 showing the locations of property
1147 10-14-19 boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures, other
              facilities, and topographic contours, is hereby approved. The cumulative density
              allowed for the PUD is 20.1 dwelling units, and the density approved for the
              development shall be 11 dwelling units.
              Rezoning property described as part of the 3.08 acre tract located in the South
              half of the Southeast quarter of Section 24, Township 102, Range 40, formerly
1148 10-14-19 Railroad Right of way between Sunny View Addition and Circle Addition, from TZ
              Transition Zone and R-3 Low Density Preservation Residential District to R-2 One
              Family, Low Density District.
1149 10-14-19 Rezoning part of Outlot A, Worthington Community Addition, from R-1 One Family
              Detached to R-2 One Family, Low Density District.
1150 10-14-19 Rezoning part of Outlot A, Worthington Community Addition, from R-1 One Family
              Detached to R-4 Medium Density Residential District.
1151 10-14-19 Rezoning part of Outlot A, Worthington Community Addition from R-1 One Family
              Detached to B-3 General Business District.
              Rezoning property described as Lots 1 through 9, and Lots 11 and 12, all in the
1156 1-13-20  County Auditor’s Plat of the Southwest quarter of Section 12, Towship 102 North,
              Range 40 West from TZ Transition Zone and B-3 General Business District to R-
              1 One Family Detached.
              Rezoning part of the Southeast quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 28,
1158 3-9-20   Township 102 North, Range 40 West from TZ Transition Zone to R-1 One Family
              Detached.
              Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1 and Lots 1 and 2, Prairie Expo First Addition, and all
1164 11-9-20  that part of the Northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range 40
              West, from TZ Transitional Zone District to PUD Planned Unit Development No. 7.
              Amending the development requirements of Lots 1 through 8 and Outlot A, Block 1,
1169 5-24-21  Cherrywood Addition, PUD #10, to be subject to amended zoning and land use
              regulations.
              Rezoning part of the Northwest quarter of the Northeast quarter of Section 14,
1170 5-24-21  Township 102 North, Range 40 West, from TZ Transition Zone to M-2 General
              Manufacturing District.
              Rezoning all of Glenwood Heights Second Addition from R-1 One Family Detached
1171 6-14-21  and R-2 One Family, Low Density District to a Planned Unit Development (PUD)
              District #14.
1172 8-9-21   Rezoning Lot 2, Block 2 and Lot 1, Block 3, Cecilee Addition, from R-2 One
              Family Low Density to R-4 Medium Density Residential District.
1177 12-13-21 Rezoning part of the Northwest quarter of Section 13, Township 102 North, Range
              40 West, from TZ Transition Zone to PUD 7 Planned Unit Development Number 7.
              Rezoning property in Lot 5 and 6 and all of Lots 7 and 8, Block 15, Plat of
1178 1-10-22  Worthington, from B-2 Central Business District to B-3 General Business
              District.
              Rezoning part of the Northwest quarter of the Southwest quarter of Section 19,
1179 1-10-22  Township 102, Range 39, from TZ Transition Zone to R-4 Medium Density
              Residential.
              Rezoning part of the Northwest quarter of the Southwest quarter of Section 19,
1185 8-22-22  Township 102N, Range 39W, from TZ Transition Zone to R-4 Medium Density
              Residential.
              Rezoning the north 95 feet of Lot 3, and all of Lots 4, 5 and 6, Block 6,
1188 10-12-22 Clifton Addition, from B-3 General Business District to R-5 Multi-Family, Medium
              and High Density District.
              Rezoning the Southeast quarter of the Southwest quarter of Section 27, Township
1197 6-12-23  102, Range 40, from I Major Institution District to R-1 Single Family Detached
              Residential Density District.
              Rezoning Lots 14, 15, 16, and 17, County’s Auditor’s Plat of the Southwest
1198 6-12-23  quarter of the Southwest quarter of Section 12, Township 102 North, Range 40
              West, from TZ Transition Zone District to B-3 General Business District.
              Rezoning Lots 3 through 10, Block 2, and Lots 2 through 7, Block 3, Cecilee
1199 6-12-23  Addition, from R-2 Single Family, Low Density Residential District to R-4 Medium
              Density Residential District.
1202 1-8-24   Rezoning Lot 5, Block 10, East Addition from B-3 General Business District to R-
              4 Medium Density Residential District.
1209 12-9-24  Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1, Worthington Bio Science Industrial Park Fourth Addition
              from TZ Transition Zone District to M-2 General Manufacturing District.
             
 
TABLE V: SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Establishing a special service district consisting of
885      11-8-99     Block 1 of Prairie Expo First Addition and the right-of-
                     way adjacent thereto.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 1969 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section           Code Section
Ch. 13                 30.09,
                       110.02
15.99                  154.12
16B.59 - 16B.75        150.01
16B.62                 150.01
16B.65                 50.01
16B.70                 150.01
18.022                 95.21
65B.48                 71.53,
                       73.04
65B.48, Subd. 5        71.55
84.81 - 84.90          71.42
88.922 - 84.929        73.03
93.44 - 93.51          155.142
97.611                 90.04
100.26                 71.42
100.29                 71.42
Ch. 103F               152.001,
                       155.140
103F.201               155.146
103G.005, Subd. 14     152.020
                       152.033,
103G.245               152.091,
                       155.142,
                       155.145
105.37                 155.010
105.42                 155.107,
                       155.215
115.01                 51.001
115.07                 51.001
116.082                91.02
Ch. 152                93.12
152.09                 93.12
157.17, Subd. 9        113.01
Ch. 169                70.01,
                       71.42
Ch. 169                73.03
169.041                72.07
169.045                71.50
169.19                 71.55
169.34                 72.02
169.70                 71.55,
                       73.05
171.01                 70.01
171.02                 70.01
171.03                 70.01
171.08                 70.01
171.22                 70.01
171.23                 70.01
171.24                 70.01
Ch. 201                30.08
211B.045               153.18
238.083                114.06
238.084                114.05
260.125                130.02
270A                   32.30
270C                   32.30
278.01 - 278.13        119.07
282.08                 94.24
282.241                94.23
289A                   32.30
297A                   32.30
297A.01                115.01
297A.99                32.30
Ch. 303                111.47
307.08                 155.142
325J                   115.14
327.31 et seq.         155.126
Ch. 329                113.03
Ch. 333                111.47
Ch. 340A               111.52,
                       119.09
                       111.45,
340A.24                155.010,
                       Ch. 155, App. E
                       111.45,
340A.26, Subd. 1       155.010,
                       Ch. 155, App. E
340A.101               111.15,
                       111.45
340A.404, Subd. 10     111.35
340A.411               111.16
340A.412               111.04
340A.415               111.58
340A.503               111.17
340A.504 Subd. 3b      111.29
340A.801               111.32
Ch. 343                90.08
343.40, Subd. 2        90.13
344.02, Subd. 1(a)-(d) 152.018
347.51                 90.08
Ch. 349                116.01
349.166                116.12
360.063                156.01
360.063, Subd. 6       156.21,
                       156.38
360.063, Subd. 6a      156.38
360.073                156.99
364.021                30.09
364.03, Subd. 2        119.07,
                       119.10
364.03, Subd. 3        119.07,
                       119.10
364.06                 110.02
364.09                 30.09,
                       110.02
Ch. 394                155.142
412.231                10.99
415.02                 Adopting Ordinance
415.11                 30.06
415.21                 Adopting Ordinance
Ch. 429                94.03,
                       154.01
429.061                94.23
429.071                94.24
429.101                54.10
429.101, Subd. 1(a)    55.06
                       152.001,
                       154.01,
Ch. 462                155.004,
                       155.140,
                       155.142,
                       155.143
462.351 - 462.363      154.04
462.357                152.092
469.190                32.13
Ch. 471                154.01
471.195                100.01
                       154.01,
Ch. 505                154.13,
                       155.147
505.02                 155.147
609.034                10.99
609.72                 119.09
Ch. 617                112.05
 
REFERENCES TO 1969 CODE
1969 Code Section 1999 Code Section
1969 Code Section 1999 Code Section
2.01              30.01
2.02              30.02
2.03              30.03
2.04              30.04
2.05              30.05
2.07              30.06
2.11              30.07
2.12              30.08
2.50              94.04
3.01              50.01
3.04
Subd. 1           53.01
Subd. 2           53.01
Subd. 3           53.02
Subd. 4           53.03
Subd. 5           53.04
3.06
Subd. 2           50.05
Subd. 3           50.06
Subd. 10          50.07
Subd. 11          50.09
Subd. 13          50.04
Subd. 14          50.10
Subd. 15          50.11
3.07              50.08
4.01              110.01
4.02              110.02
4.03              110.03
4.04              110.04
4.05              110.05
4.06              110.06
4.08              110.08
4.22              150.04
4.27
Subd. 1           111.30
Subd. 2           111.31
Subd. 4           111.32
Subd. 5           111.33
4.28              111.34,
                  111.99
4.40
Subd. 1           111.45
Subd. 2           111.46
Subd. 3           111.47
Subd. 4           111.47
Subd. 5           111.48
Subd. 6           111.47
Subd. 7           111.49
Subd. 8           111.50
Subd. 9           111.51
Subd. 10          111.52
Subd. 11          111.53
Subd. 12          111.54
Subd. 13          111.55
Subd. 14          111.56
Subd. 16          111.58
Subd. 17          111.59
4.41              111.01
4.50              111.02
5.01              70.02
5.02
Subd. 1           70.03
5.03
Subd. 1           70.04
Subd. 2           70.05
5.05              94.015
5.07              94.02
5.08              94.01
5.09              94.03
5.10
Subd. 1           71.17
Subd. 2           71.16
Subd. 3           71.18
Subd. 4           71.15
Subd. 6           71.19
5.10
Subd. 8           71.20
5.15              72.01
5.16
Subd. 1           72.02
Subd. 2           72.03
Subd. 4           72.04
Subd. 5           72.05
Subd. 6           72.05
Subd. 7           72.05
Subd. 8           72.06
Subd. 9           72.07
Subd. 10          72.15
Subd. 11          72.15
Subd. 12          72.08
Subd. 14          70.06
Subd. 15          72.10
5.17              70.07
5.19              72.13
5.21              72.14
5.29              70.01
5.31              71.01
5.32              71.02
5.40
Subd. 1           71.35
Subd. 2           71.36
Subd. 3           71.37
Subd. 4           71.38
Subd. 5           71.39
Subd. 6           71.40
Subd. 7           71.41
Subd. 8           71.42
Subd. 10          71.43
Subd. 11          71.44
Subd. 12          71.99
5.99              70.99
6.23              130.04
6.27              130.01
6.30              130.02
6.32
Subd. 1           93.30
Subd. 2           93.31
Subd. 3           93.32
Subd. 4           93.31
Subd. 5           93.33
Subd. 6           93.35
Subd. 7           93.35
Subd. 8           93.36
Subd. 9           93.37
Subd. 10          93.34
Subd. 11          93.40
Subd. 12          93.38
Subd. 13          93.39
6.33              93.01
6.34
Subd. 1           93.10
Subd. 2           93.12
Subd. 3           93.13
Subd. 4           93.14
Subd. 5           93.15
Subd. 6           93.16
Subd. 7           93.17
Subd. 8           93.18
Subd. 9           93.11
Subd. 10          93.20
Subd. 11          93.99
6.65              53.04
6.66              130.05
6.71
Subd. 1           95.20
Subd. 2           95.21
Subd. 3           95.22
Subd. 4           95.23
Subd. 5           95.23
Subd. 6           95.23
Subd. 7           95.23
Subd. 8           95.24
6.71
Subd. 9           95.25
Subd. 10          95.26
Subd. 11          95.27
6.73              71.03
7-1               155.001
7-2.01            155.002
7-2.02            155.003
7-3.01            155.004
7-3.02            155.005
7-3.03            155.006
7-3.05            155.007
7-4               155.008
7-5               155.009
7-6.02            155.010
7-7               155.025
7-7.01            155.025
7-7.02            155.025
7-7.03            155.025
7-7.04            155.025
7-8               155.026
7-8.01            155.026
7-8.02            155.026
7-8.03            155.026
7-8.04            155.026
7-8.05            155.026
7-8.06            155.026
7-8.07            155.026
7-8.08            155.026
7-8.09            155.026
7-9.01            155.040
7-9.02            155.040
7-9.04            155.040
7-9.05            155.040
7-9.06            155.040
7-9.08            155.040
7-9.09            155.040
7-9.10            155.040
7-10.01           155.041
7-10.02           155.041
7-10.03           155.041
7-10.04           155.041
7-11.01           155.042
7-11.02           155.042
7-11.03           155.042
7-11.04           155.042
7-11.05           155.042
7-11.06           155.042
7-11.07           155.042
7-11.08           155.042
7-11.09           155.042
7-11.10           155.042
7-12.01           155.043
7-12.02           155.043
7-12.03           155.043
7-12.04           155.043
7-12.05           155.043
7-12.06           155.043
7-12.07           155.043
7-12.08           155.043
7-12.09           155.043
7-13              155.044
7-13.01           155.044
7-13.02           155.044
7-13.03           155.044
7-15.01           155.055
7-15.02           155.056
7-15.03           155.057
7-15.04           155.058
7-15.05           155.059
7-15.06           155.060
7-16.01
Subd. 1           155.070
Subd. 2           155.071
Subd. 3           155.072
Subd. 4           155.073
Subd. 5           155.074
Subd. 6           155.075
7-16.02
Subd. 1           155.085
Subd. 2           155.086
Subd. 3           155.087
7-16.03
Subd. 1           155.100
Subd. 2 A.        155.101
Subd. 2 B.        155.102
7-16.03
Subd. 2 C.        155.103
Subd. 2 D.        155.104
Subd. 2 E.        155.105
Subd. 2 F.        155.106
Subd. 2 G.        155.107
7-17.01           155.120
7-17.02           155.121
7-17.03           155.122
7-17.04           155.123
7-17.05           155.124
7-17.06           155.125
7-17.07           155.126,
                  155.999
7-21.03           150.02
7-21.05           150.03
7-23.01           151.01
7-23.02           151.01
7-23.03           151.01
7-23.04           151.02
7-23.05           151.03
7-23.06           151.03
7-23.07           151.03
7-23.08           151.04
7-23.09           151.05
7-23.11           151.06
7-24.01           155.215
7-24.02           155.215
7-24.03           155.215
7-24.04           155.215
7-25.01           155.160
7-25.02           155.161
7-25.03           155.162
7-25.04           155.163
7-25.05           155.164
7-25.06           155.165
7-25.07           155.166
7-25.08           155.167
7-25.09           155.168
7-25.10           155.169
7-25.11           155.170
7-25.12           155.171
7-26.01           155.185
7-26.02           155.186
7-26.03           155.187
7-26.04           155.188
7-26.05           155.189
7-27              155.200
7-27.01           155.201
7-27.02           155.202
7-27.03           155.203
7-27.04           155.204
7-27.05           155.205
7-28.01           155.216
7-28.02           155.217
7-28.03           155.218
7-28.04           155.219
7-28.05           155.220
7-28.06           155.221
7-28.07           155.222
7-28.08           155.222
7-29.01           155.223
7-29.02           155.223
7-29.03           155.223
7-29.04           155.223
7-29.06           155.223
7-29.07           155.223
7-29.08           155.223
7-29.09           155.223
7-31              155.225
7-32              155.999
Ch. 7 App.
Table 1           Ch. 155 App. A
Table 2           Ch. 155 App. B
Table 3           Ch. 155 App. C
Table 4           Ch. 155 App. D
Table 5           Ch. 155 App. E
Exhibit A         Ch. 155 App. I
Ch. 8             T.S.O. IV
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Eff. Date Code Section
Ord. No. Eff. Date Code Section
29       ­        T.S.O. III
38       ­        T.S.O. III
40       ­        T.S.O. III
41       ­        T.S.O. III
42       ­        T.S.O. III
43       ­        T.S.O. III
47       ­        T.S.O. III
48       ­        T.S.O. III
50       ­        T.S.O. III
51       ­        T.S.O. III
53       ­        T.S.O. III
54       ­        T.S.O. III
71       ­        T.S.O. II
72       ­        T.S.O. II
84       ­        T.S.O. III
166      ­        T.S.O. I
168      ­        T.S.O. I
169      ­        T.S.O. I
171      ­        T.S.O. I
172      ­        T.S.O. I
176      ­        T.S.O. I
187      ­        T.S.O. I
189      ­        T.S.O. I
197      ­        T.S.O. I
206      ­        T.S.O. I
210      ­        T.S.O. I
217      ­        T.S.O. I
218      ­        T.S.O. I
222      ­        T.S.O. II
227      ­        T.S.O. I
236      ­        T.S.O. I
247      ­        T.S.O. I
248      ­        T.S.O. I
251      ­        T.S.O. I
252      ­        T.S.O. I
253      ­        T.S.O. I
254      ­        T.S.O. I
255      ­        T.S.O. I
256      ­        T.S.O. I
258      ­        T.S.O. I
259      ­        T.S.O. I
260      ­        T.S.O. I
261      ­        T.S.O. I
262      ­        T.S.O. I
263      ­        T.S.O. I
274      ­        T.S.O. I
275      ­        T.S.O. I
278      ­        T.S.O. III
283      ­        T.S.O. III
286      ­        T.S.O. III
289      ­        T.S.O. I
291      ­        T.S.O. III
292      ­        T.S.O. I
293      ­        T.S.O. III
294      ­        T.S.O. III
295      ­        T.S.O. III
296      ­        T.S.O. I
297      ­        T.S.O. I
299      ­        T.S.O. I
303      ­        T.S.O. I
304      ­        T.S.O. III
305      ­        T.S.O. I
307      ­        T.S.O. III
308      ­        T.S.O. I
309      ­        T.S.O. I
312      ­        T.S.O. III
314      ­        T.S.O. I
316      ­        T.S.O. I
317      ­        T.S.O. I
319      ­        T.S.O. I
320      ­        T.S.O. I
327      ­        T.S.O. I
328      ­        T.S.O. I
331      ­        T.S.O. I
332      ­        T.S.O. III
334      ­        T.S.O. I
342      ­        T.S.O. III
343      ­        T.S.O. III
344      ­        T.S.O. I
345      ­        T.S.O. III
346      ­        T.S.O. IV
347      ­        T.S.O. I
347-a    ­        T.S.O. IV
348      ­        T.S.O. IV
351      ­        T.S.O. I
353      ­        T.S.O. IV
354      ­        T.S.O. III
355      ­        T.S.O. I
357      ­        T.S.O. I
358      ­        T.S.O. IV
359      ­        T.S.O. I
361      ­        T.S.O. IV
362      ­        T.S.O. I
363      ­        T.S.O. I
364      ­        T.S.O. I
365      ­        T.S.O. I
366      ­        T.S.O. I
367      ­        T.S.O. IV
368      ­        T.S.O. IV
372      ­        T.S.O. I
374      ­        T.S.O. I
375      ­        T.S.O. I
376      ­        T.S.O. IV
377      ­        T.S.O. I
378      ­        T.S.O. I
379      ­        T.S.O. I
382      ­        T.S.O. IV
384      ­        T.S.O. III
385      ­        T.S.O. I
388      ­        T.S.O. I
393      ­        T.S.O. I
395      ­        T.S.O. I
398      ­        T.S.O. IV
399      ­        T.S.O. I
400      ­        T.S.O. I
401      ­        T.S.O. I
404      ­        T.S.O. III
405      ­        T.S.O. III
406      ­        T.S.O. I
407      ­        T.S.O. IV
410      ­        T.S.O. IV
412      ­        T.S.O. I
413      ­        T.S.O. I
417      ­        T.S.O. III
418      ­        T.S.O. III
419      ­        T.S.O. I
420      ­        T.S.O. III
421      ­        T.S.O. III
424      ­        T.S.O. IV
425      ­        T.S.O. I
426      ­        T.S.O. I
429      ­        T.S.O. IV
430      10-23-68  72.17
433      ­        T.S.O. IV
434      ­        T.S.O. I
435      ­        T.S.O. III
437      9-3-69    93.01
438      ­        T.S.O. IV
439      ­        T.S.O. IV
444      4-22-70   111.99
446      ­        T.S.O. III
447      6-1-70    71.03
448      ­        T.S.O. III
450      ­        T.S.O. I
453      ­        T.S.O. I
455      ­        T.S.O. IV
456      ­        T.S.O. IV
457      ­        T.S.O. IV
459      11-2-70   111.59
461      ­        T.S.O. I
464      ­        T.S.O. I
470      ­        T.S.O. I
471      ­        T.S.O. I
472      ­        T.S.O. IV
476      ­        T.S.O. III
478      ­        T.S.O. III
479      ­        T.S.O. IV
480      ­        T.S.O. I
481      9-13-71   96.23
482      ­        T.S.O. IV
483      ­        T.S.O. I
485      ­        T.S.O. IV
486      ­        T.S.O. IV
488      ­        T.S.O. IV
489      ­        T.S.O. IV
493      ­        T.S.O. III
495      ­        T.S.O. IV
496      4-3-73    30.08
497      ­        T.S.O. IV
498      ­        T.S.O. IV
499      ­        T.S.O. IV
500      ­        T.S.O. IV
502      ­        T.S.O. III
504      ­        T.S.O. IV
507      ­        T.S.O. IV
509      ­        T.S.O. IV
510      ­        T.S.O. III
512      ­        T.S.O. III
513      ­        T.S.O. III
514      ­        T.S.O. IV
516      ­        T.S.O. IV
517      ­        T.S.O. III
518      ­        T.S.O. IV
519      ­        T.S.O. IV
521      ­        T.S.O. IV
522      ­        T.S.O. III
527      ­        T.S.O. IV
528      ­        T.S.O. IV
529      ­        T.S.O. IV
533      ­        T.S.O. IV
534      9-4-74    150.04
535      ­        T.S.O. IV
538-2    1-8-76    30.01,
                   30.07
                   110.02,
538-4    1-8-76    110.08,
                   111.33
                   70.05,
538-5    1-8-76    70.99,
                   71.02,
                   72.14,
                 72.15,
                   94.03
538-6    1-8-76    130.01
539      ­        T.S.O. IV
                   94.15,
540      10-14-75  94.16,
                   94.18,
                   94.21
541      ­        T.S.O. III
544      ­        T.S.O. III
545      ­        T.S.O. III
546      ­        T.S.O. IV
547      ­        T.S.O. IV
551      1-10-77   53.04
                   71.35 -
552      1-10-77   71.44,
                   71.99
553      ­        T.S.O. IV
554      7-1-77    94.04
555      2-28-77   30.06
558      4-23-77   72.02
559      ­        T.S.O. IV
562      ­        T.S.O. II
563      ­        T.S.O. IV
564      ­        T.S.O. IV
565      ­        T.S.O. IV
566      ­        T.S.O. IV
                   156.01 -
                   156.03,
                   156.15 -
­       9-15-77   156.21,
                   156.35 -
                   156.38,
                   156.99
                   111.45,
568      12-12-77  111.46,
                   111.48
                 111.52,
                   111.53
572      ­        T.S.O. IV
573      ­        T.S.O. IV
581      ­        T.S.O. IV
582      5-22-78   111.33,
                   111.54
583      ­        T.S.O. IV
584      ­        T.S.O. IV
585      ­        T.S.O. III
586      ­        T.S.O. IV
587      ­        T.S.O. IV
588      ­        T.S.O. IV
590      6-26-78   155.010,
                   155.106
591      ­        T.S.O. IV
592      ­        T.S.O. IV
594      ­        T.S.O. I
595      ­        T.S.O. IV
597      ­        T.S.O. IV
600      11-27-76  Ch. 155 App. E
603      1-22-79   Ch. 155 App. E
604      ­        T.S.O. IV
605      2-12-79   71.01
606      ­        T.S.O. IV
608      7-9-79    95.21
610      8-27-79   155.205
611      8-27-79   155.059
612      ­        T.S.O. IV
613      ­        T.S.O. IV
618      3-24-80   72.08
619      3-24-80   94.22
620      ­        T.S.O. IV
621      ­        T.S.O. IV
622      7-14-80   155.086
623      8-11-80   155.086
627      10-14-80  155.040
632      ­        T.S.O. II
636      6-22-81   94.19
640      ­        T.S.O. II
643      8-10-81   155.216
646      ­        T.S.O. III
647      3-8-82    111.02
648      4-13-82   155.072
650      4-13-82   111.32
651      4-13-82   111.34
652      4-13-82   111.49
653      ­        T.S.O. IV
654      5-24-82   50.07
655      5-24-82   71.15 -
                   71.20
658      6-28-82   94.23
659      7-12-82   111.01
674      ­        T.S.O. III
676      ­        T.S.O. IV
677      ­        T.S.O. IV
680      11-26-84  72.07
683      ­        T.S.O. IV
685      ­        T.S.O. IV
686      ­        T.S.O. IV
688      9-9-85    72.07
701      3-10-86   T.S.O. III
702      3-24-86   30.06
705      5-12-86   T.S.O. III
706      6-9-86    155.075
707      8-11-86   T.S.O. III
708      10-14-86  94.01
709      3-9-87    T.S.O. III
710      3-23-87   130.02
711      4-14-87   T.S.O. III
712      6-22-87   T.S.O. III
716      ­        T.S.O. IV
717      ­        T.S.O. IV
718      ­        T.S.O. IV
720      ­        T.S.O. IV
721      ­        T.S.O. IV
722      7-11-88   111.33,
                   111.54
724      7-25-88   T.S.O. I
                   116.01 -
725      8-8-88    116.12,
                   116.99
726      8-22-88   94.23
727      ­        T.S.O. IV
729      ­        T.S.O. IV
730      ­        T.S.O. IV
731      1-9-89    T.S.O. III
733      2-13-89   71.37
734      3-27-89   T.S.O. III
735      4-24-89   116.05
736      ­        T.S.O. IV
738      7-10-89   91.01
739      ­        T.S.O. IV
740      8-28-89   94.22
743      11-13-89  T.S.O. III
                   51.001 -
                   51.004,
                   51.015 -
                   51.019,
                   51.035 -
744      11-27-89  51.040,
                   51.055 -
                   51.064,
                   51.080 -
                   51.095,
                   51.110,
                   51.130 -
                 51.133
745      11-27-89  51.111 -
                   51.116
748      2-12-90   130.03
749      ­        T.S.O. IV
750      3-12-90   T.S.O. III
752      ­        T.S.O. IV
753      4-9-90    T.S.O. III
754      4-23-90   94.22 -
                   94.24
755      5-29-90   93.40
756      6-11-90   52.20 -
                   52.26
757      6-11-90   T.S.O. III
758      7-9-90    T.S.O. III
759      7-23-90   T.S.O. III
760      ­        T.S.O. IV
761      10-22-90  T.S.O. III
763      2-11-91   T.S.O. III
764      ­        T.S.O. IV
765      ­        T.S.O. IV
766      ­        T.S.O. IV
767      6-24-91   T.S.O. III
768      7-8-91    52.01 -
                   52.09
769      7-8-91    T.S.O. III
770      ­        T.S.O. IV
771      9-9-91    52.21
772      ­        T.S.O. IV
773      1-13-92   Ch. 155 App. E
775      3-9-92    T.S.O. III
776      ­        T.S.O. IV
777      4-27-92   30.04
779      7-27-92   111.02
780      ­        T.S.O. IV
781      8-24-92   111.51
782      ­        T.S.O. IV
783      11-23-92  T.S.O. III
784      11-23-92  T.S.O. III
785      ­        T.S.O. IV
787      ­        T.S.O. IV
789      5-10-93   155.075
790      6-28-93   72.08
791      6-28-93   72.12
793      8-23-93   T.S.O. III
795      11-8-93   52.02,
                   52.03
                   32.01 -
796      11-8-93   32.15,
                   32.99
798      1-24-94   72.11
                   115.01,
                   115.03,
799      4-11-94   115.04,
                   115.06 -
                   115.14
800      5-23-94   T.S.O. III
801      ­        T.S.O. IV
802      7-11-94   T.S.O. III
                   95.01 -
803      12-12-94  95.09,
                   95.27
805      ­        T.S.O. IV
806      ­        T.S.O. IV
807      ­        T.S.O. IV
                   155.140 -
808      3-13-95   155.148,
                   Ch. 155 App. F
809      3-10-95   T.S.O. III
810      ­        T.S.O. IV
811      ­        T.S.O. IV
812      7-10-95   155.010
813      ­        T.S.O. IV
814      8-14-95   T.S.O. I
815      ­        T.S.O. IV
816      8-28-95   110.20
817      ­        T.S.O. IV
818      11-13-95  155.042
819      1-22-96   T.S.O. II
820      3-25-96   155.103,
                   Ch. 155 App. E
821      4-8-96    155.042
822      4-8-96    Ch. 155 App. E
824      7-8-96    155.190
                   51.036,
                   51.037,
825      7-22-96   51.056,
                   51.058,
                   51.081,
                   51.096
826      1-13-97   T.S.O. III
                   112.01 -
828      2-10-97   112.12,
                   112.99
829      2-24-97   155.010,
                   Ch. 155 App. E
                   155.164,
830      3-10-97   155.223,
                   Ch. 155 App. A
831      4-14-97   T.S.O. III
832      ­        T.S.O. IV
833      5-12-97   155.145
                   96.01 -
834      5-27-97   96.06,
                   96.99
835      6-23-97   T.S.O. II
836      6-23-97   114.01 -
                   114.34
845      8-11-97   155.075
846      9-8-97    155.010,
                   Ch. 155 App. A
                   155.042, Ch. 155
847      10-27-97  App. B &
                   G
848      11-10-97  T.S.O. I
849      ­        T.S.O. IV
850      ­        T.S.O. IV
851      11-24-97  51.113
852      1-12-98   Ch. 155 App. E
854      1-12-98   155.075
855      2-9-98    T.S.O. III
856      3-9-98    155.043
                   153.01 -
                   153.05,
857      3-9-98    153.15 -
                   153.20,
                   153.30 -
                   153.34
858      ­        T.S.O. IV
859      ­        T.S.O. IV
860      ­        T.S.O. IV
861      4-27-98   155.058
862      5-11-98   T.S.O. IV
863      6-8-98    T.S.O. IV
865      8-10-98   T.S.O. IV
866      9-14-98   T.S.O. III
867      9-28-98   T.S.O. II
869      10-12-98  153.20
870      10-12-98  Ch. 155 App. E
872      10-26-98  T.S.O. IV
873      1-25-99   T.S.O. IV
874      2-2-99    T.S.O. IV
875      3-8-99    T.S.O. III
877      3-22-99   T.S.O. IV
                   93.01,
                   93.10-
878      6-14-99   93.19,
                   93.30-
                   93.40
879      6-14-99   T.S.O. IV
880      7-12-99   153.20
881      9-13-99   T.S.O. I
883      10-11-99  118.01,
                   118.02
884      10-11-99  T.S.O. III
885      11-8-99   T.S.O. V
888      12-13-99  155.059
889      12-13-99  155.043
890      4-10-00   T.S.O. IV
891      4-24-00   T.S.O. IV
892      6-12-00   T.S.O. IV
893      6-12-00   Ch. 155, App. D
894      7-10-00   T.S.O. III
895      7-10-00   T.S.O. IV
896      8-28-00   155.040
897      10-9-00   T.S.O. IV
910      11-27-00  30.03
915      11-27-00  32.01
916      12-26-00  T.S.O. IV
917      1-8-01    Adopting Ordinance
                   71.50 -
918      3-12-01   71.58,
                   71.99
919      3-12-01   T.S.O. III
920      4-9-01    155.166
921      5-14-01   T.S.O. I
922      5-14-01   T.S.O. IV
923      5-29-01   T.S.O. IV
                   116.01 -
924      8-27-01   116.12,
                   116.99
925      8-27-01   T.S.O. IV
926      11-13-01  155.219
                   51.001,
927      11-26-01  51.055,
                   51.082
928      11-26-01  51.111,
                   51.113
929      12-26-01  52.01 -
                   52.09
930      12-26-01  72.07
931      12-26-01  113.03,
                   113.04
932      1-14-02   111.49
933      2-11-02   Ch. 155, App. E
934      4-8-02    71.03
935      6-10-02   T.S.O. IV
936      7-8-02    T.S.O. III
                   119.01 -
                   119.07,
937      7-8-02    119.09,
                   119.10,
                   119.99
                   93.15,
938      7-8-02    93.19,
                   93.20
940      8-12-02   T.S.O. III
941      10-14-02  T.S.O. IV
                   155.042,
                   155.200,
                   155.201,
942      10-14-02  155.202,
                   155.204,
                   155.205,
                   155.206
943      12-9-02   30.06
944      12-23-02  T.S.O. II
945      6-9-03    T.S.O. III
946      6-9-03    T.S.O. III
                   97.01 -
947      6-23-03   97.14,
                   97.99
948      7-14-03   T.S.O. IV
949      9-8-03    130.06
                   70.08,
950      9-8-03    130.07,
                   130.08
951      9-22-03   T.S.O. III
952      10-13-03  94.25
953      10-13-03  T.S.O. III
954      11-10-03  T.S.O. IV
955      11-24-03  155.105
956      12-8-03   54.01 -
                   54.09
957      12-8-03   150.01
958      1-12-04   111.03
959      1-12-04   T.S.O. III
960      3-8-04    T.S.O. IV
961      4-12-04   31.01,
                   31.02
                   98.01 –
                   98.14,
962      4-12-04   98.17,
                   98.18,
                   98.20
963      5-10-04   51.058
964      5-10-04   155.219
965      5-10-04   T.S.O. IV
966      5-24-04   99.01 –
                   99.07
                   52.01 –
                   52.09,
967      6-14-04   52.20 –
                   52.26,
                   52.30 –
                   52.36
968      9-13-04   130.09
969      9-13-04   T.S.O. III
970      10-25-04  130.02
971      10-25-04  T.S.O. III
972      10-25-04  T.S.O. III
973      11-8-04   155.085
                   113.01 –
                   113.07,
974      11-8-04   113.09 –
                   113.12,
                   113.99
975      12-13-04  54.04
976      1-10-05   T.S.O. III
977      6-13-05   T.S.O. III
978      6-13-05   T.S.O. IV
979      7-11-05   52.30
980      8-22-05   90.01 -
                   90.15
981      12-12-05  54.04
983      2-27-06   T.S.O. IV
984      3-13-06   T.S.O. IV
985      4-10-06   T.S.O. III
986      4-24-06   93.20
987      4-24-06   100.01
988      5-22-06   T.S.O. III
                   154.01 -
                   154.08,
                   154.11 -
989      7-10-06   154.14,
                   154.30 -
                   154.36,
                   154.99
990      7-24-06   T.S.O. III
991      9-11-06   T.S.O. III
                   151.01 -
992      9-11-06   151.06,
                   151.99
                   153.01 -
                   153.05,
                   153.15 -
993      9-25-06   153.20,
                   153.30 -
                   153.34,
                   153.99
994      9-25-06   T.S.O. III
995      9-25-06   T.S.O. IV
996      10-9-06   130.03
997      12-11-06  54.04
998      12-11-06  150.10
999      2-12-07   T.S.O. IV
1001     8-13-07   T.S.O. IV
1002     8-13-07   153.17
1003     8-13-07   97.09
1004     8-13-07   Ch. 155, App. A
1005     9-10-07   92.05,
                   92.06
1006     10-22-07  T.S.O. III
1007     11-13-07  T.S.O. I
1008     1-14-08   T.S.O. III
1009     1-14-08   54.04
1010     2-12-08   155.075
1011     4-30-08   T.S.O. IV
1012     6-23-08   T.S.O. III
1013     6-23-08   T.S.O. III
1014     7-14-08   155.086
1015     8-11-08   155.086
1016     9-8-08    T.S.O. IV
1017     10-13-08  T.S.O. III
1018     10-13-08  T.S.O. IV
1019     11-10-08  T.S.O. III
1020     11-24-08  54.04
1022     1-26-09   T.S.O. III
1023     2-9-09    155.059
1024     2-9-09    154.36
1025     5-11-09   T.S.O. IV
1027     6-8-09    51.018
1028     7-13-09   155.043
1029     9-14-09   T.S.O. IV
1030     11-9-09   154.36
1031     12-14-09  54.04
1032     2-22-10   111.35
1033     7-12-10   T.S.O. IV
1034     8-9-10    55.01 -
                   55.06
1035     8-9-10    T.S.O. III
1036     10-12-10  T.S.O. IV
1037     10-25-10  72.08
1038     11-8-10   54.04
1039     3-28-11   T.S.O. IV
1040     5-9-11    99.02
1041     5-9-11    72.07
1042     5-9-11    T.S.O. III
1043     7-11-11   T.S.O. IV
1044     7-11-11   155.190
1045     9-12-11   Ch. 155, App. E
1046     10-10-11  111.04
1047     10-10-11  111.05
1048     10-10-11  T.S.O. III
1049     12-12-11  54.04
1050     1-23-12   111.33
1051     5-14-12   101.01 -
                   101.05
1052     6-11-12   114.02
1053     6-11-12   T.S.O. II
1056     6-25-12   T.S.O. IV
1057     7-9-12    T.S.O. III
1058     7-9-12    T.S.O. IV
1059     9-24-12   93.15
1060     11-26-12  T.S.O. III
1061     11-26-12  T.S.O. I
1062     12-10-12  54.04
1063     12-10-12  T.S.O. IV
1064     12-10-12  Ch. 155, App. E
1065     12-10-12  155.010,
                   Ch. 155, App. E
1066     2-11-13   153.17
1067     5-13-13   155.043
1068     5-28-13   30.09
1069     7-8-13    T.S.O. II
1071     7-22-13   T.S.O. III
1072     8-12-13   90.01,
                   90.03
                   113.01,
1073     8-12-13   113.03,
                   113.07,
                   113.09
                   110.02,
                   111.16,
                   111.33,
                   111.47,
1074     10-28-13  111.49 -
                   111.51,
                   112.07,
                   112.11,
                   113.04,
                   113.05
1075     11-25-13  T.S.O. III
1076     12-9-13   T.S.O. III
1077     1-13-14   155.224
1078     3-12-14   T.S.O. IV
                   152.001,
                   152.002,
                   152.010 -
                   152.021,
                   152.030 -
                   152.033,
                   152.040 -
                   152.043,
                   152.050,
                   152.051,
                   152.060 -
1079     4-14-14   152.062,
                   152.070 -
                   152.072,
                   152.080 -
                   152.082,
                   152.090 -
                   152.093,
                   152.100,
                   152.110 -
                   152.112,
                   152.120 -
                   152.122
1080     7-14-14   113.01
1081     7-14-14   T.S.O. IV
1082     7-14-14   153.02
1083     3-23-15   54.10
1084     4-13-15   T.S.O. IV
1085     6-8-15    53.04
1086     6-8-15    Ch. 155, App. E
1087     6-8-15    Ch. 155, App. E
1088     8-24-15   T.S.O. III
1089     12-28-15  54.04
1090     1-11-16   T.S.O. IV
1091     1-11-16   T.S.O. IV
1092     5-9-16    T.S.O. III
1093     5-9-16    T.S.O. IV
1094     5-9-16    T.S.O. IV
1095     5-23-16   T.S.O. I
1096     6-13-16   T.S.O. III
1097     6-13-16   T.S.O. IV
1098     7-11-16   T.S.O. I
1100     11-14-16  T.S.O. IV
1101     12-12-16  54.04
                   155.042,
                   155.043,
1102     12-12-16  155.186,
                   155.201 -
                   155.203,
                   Ch. 155, App. G
1103     12-27-16  111.29
1105     9-11-17   T.S.O. III
1106     9-26-17   T.S.O. I
1107     10-9-17   T.S.O. IV
1108     12-11-17  54.04
1109     12-11-17  55.03
1110     12-26-17  T.S.O. IV
1111     12-26-17  T.S.O. I
1112     1-8-18    155.010,
                   Ch. 155, App. E
1115     6-25-18   51.058,
                   51.092
1116     7-9-18    155.010,
                   Ch. 155, App. E
1117     8-27-18   T.S.O. IV
1118     9-10-18   155.042
1119     9-10-18   T.S.O. IV
1121     10-8-18   T.S.O. IV
1122     10-8-18   T.S.O. IV
1123     10-8-18   T.S.O. IV
                   111.31,
1124     10-22-18  111.45,
                   111.46
1125     11-13-18  155.186
1126     11-13-18  Ch. 155, App. J
1127     11-26-18  T.S.O. III
1128     11-26-18  54.04
1129     11-26-18  151.03
1130     1-14-19   T.S.O. IV
1131     1-14-19   T.S.O. IV
1132     1-14-19   T.S.O. IV
1133     1-14-19   T.S.O. IV
1135     4-22-19   155.145
1136     5-13-19   T.S.O. IV
                   73.01 -
1137     5-28-19   73.06,
                   73.99
1138     6-10-19   T.S.O. III
1139     6-24-19   T.S.O. III
1140     6-24-19   T.S.O. IV
1141     6-24-19   T.S.O. IV
1142     7-8-19    T.S.O. IV
1143     7-8-19    T.S.O. IV
1144     9-9-19    32.30
1145     9-9-19    T.S.O. IV
1146     9-23-19   54.10
1147     10-14-19  T.S.O. IV
1148     10-14-19  T.S.O. IV
1149     10-14-19  T.S.O. IV
1150     10-14-19  T.S.O. IV
1151     10-14-19  T.S.O. IV
1152     10-14-19  155.040
1153     11-12-19  Ch. 155, App. E
1154     12-9-19   54.04
1155     1-13-20   T.S.O. III
1156     1-13-20   T.S.O. IV
                   155.010,
1157     3-9-20    155.085,
                   Ch. 155, App. E,
                   Ch. 155, App. F
1158     3-9-20    T.S.O. IV
1159     3-23-20   155.010,
                   155.072
                   153.02,
1160     4-14-20   153.17,
                   153.20,
                   153.21
1163     11-9-20   T.S.O. III
1164     11-9-20   T.S.O. IV
                   113.01,
                   113.03 -
1165     11-9-20   113.05,
                   113.08 -
                   113.13,
                   113.99
                   92.21,
                   97.01,
                   97.03,
                   97.05,
                   97.06,
                   97.11,
1166     11-23-20  97.14,
                   97.15,
                   97.99,
                   99.04,
                   155.010,
                   Ch. 155, App. E,
                   Ch. 155, App. F
1167     11-23-20  152.012
1168     3-22-21   155.010,
                   Ch. 155, App. A
1169     5-24-21   T.S.O. IV
1170     5-24-21   T.S.O. IV
1171     6-14-21   T.S.O. IV
1172     8-9-21    T.S.O. IV
1173     8-9-21    Ch. 155, App. D
                   155.071, Ch. 155 Apps.
1175     9-13-21   A,
                   E,
                   F
1176     1-1-22    54.04
1177     12-13-21  T.S.O. IV
1178     1-10-22   T.S.O. IV
1179     1-10-22   T.S.O. IV
1180     6-13-22   113.03,
                   113.13
1181     6-13-22   155.086
1182     6-27-22   111.05
1183     6-27-22   150.10
1184     6-27-22   T.S.O. I
1185     8-22-22   T.S.O. IV
1186     8-22-22   Ch. 155 App. E
1187     10-12-22  Ch. 155 App. A
1188     10-12-22  T.S.O. IV
1189     11-14-22  54.10
1190     11-28-22  51.001
1191     12-12-22  T.S.O. III
1192     12-12-22  54.04
1193     1-9-23    30.01
1194     1-9-23    30.06
1195     1-9-23    150.10
1196     5-8-23  97.11,
                   97.15
1197     6-12-23   T.S.O. IV
1198     6-12-23   T.S.O. IV
1199     6-12-23   T.S.O. IV
1200     7-24-23   32.30
1201     12-11-23  54.04
1202     1-8-24    T.S.O IV
1203     4-22-24   155.042,
                   Ch. 155 App. B
                   71.50 -
1204     6-10-24   71.58,
                   71.98,
                   71.99
1207     10-14-24  T.S.O I
1208     11-25-24  54.04
1209     12-9-24   T.S.O IV
                  
