VILLAGE OF PEPIN, WISCONSIN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Res. 2024-0819-2, passed 8-20-2024,
and Ord. passed 6-7-2023
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE BOUNDARIES
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Pepin shall be
designated as the Code of Pepin and may be so cited.
(1999 Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(1999 Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1999 Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Pepin County, Wisconsin.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Wisconsin.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Pepin, Wisconsin.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1999 Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(1999 Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(1999 Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(1999 Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(1999 Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(1999 Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
(1999 Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(1999 Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(1999 Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(1999 Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1999 Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(1999 Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
   Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
   Example:   (Wis. Stat. § 62.35) (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
   Example:   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see
Wis. Stat. §§ 19.21 et seq.
(1999 Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this code of ordinances shall be
subject to a forfeiture of not less than $10, nor more than $500, plus costs.
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Where a
statute requires that the penalty for a violation of this code of ordinances
shall conform to the penalty provided by statute, any person in default of
payment of the forfeiture shall be committed to the county jail until the
forfeiture shall be paid, but not exceeding 60 days or until otherwise
discharged pursuant to law.
(1999 Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Fees in forfeiture actions, see Wis. Stat. § 814.63
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE BOUNDARIES
Section
   
11.01   Incorporation of village adopted by reference
§ 11.01 INCORPORATION OF VILLAGE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   A certain Pepin County ordinance passed on April 19, 1882, providing
for the incorporation of the Village of Pepin, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated into this code of ordinances as if set out fully herein.
   (B)   Copies of such incorporation ordinance are available for public
inspection during normal hours at the office of the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 11.01) (Ord. passed 4-19-1882)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
31.   VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
33.   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
      
34.   VILLAGE POLICIES
      
35.   ELECTION OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 30: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Board of Harbor Commissioners
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Membership; terms; compensation
   
30.03   Officers and employees
   
30.04   Meetings
   
30.05   Expenditures; Harbor Fund
   
30.06   Budget requests
   
30.07   Disposition of revenues
   
30.08   Limit on obligations
   
30.09   Annual report
   
30.10   Area of authority
   
30.11   Powers and duties
   
30.12   Lease of harbor facilities
Planning Commission
   
30.25   Generally
Tourism Commission
   
30.40   Created
   
30.41   Purpose and duties
   
30.42   Definitions
   
30.43   Commission structure
Cross-reference:
   Pepin Harbor, see §§
93.15 through
93.25
   Volunteer Fire Department, see
Ch. 31
BOARD OF HARBOR COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Subject to Wis. Stat. § 30.37, there is created a Board of Harbor
Commissioners for the village, hereinafter referred to as “the Board.”
(1999 Code, § 31.01) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.02 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Subject to the approval of the Village Board, the President shall
appoint five members to the Board of Harbor Commissioners. Each member shall be
a qualified elector of the village and shall have been a resident of the
village for at least three years. No more than one member of the Board of
Harbor Commissioners may also be a member of the Village Board. Terms shall be
for three years except that in making initial appointments, one term shall be
for one year, two terms shall be for two years, and two terms shall be for
three years; all terms to begin upon approval of appointment of the five
members.
   (B)   The members shall receive no compensation other than for personal
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(1999 Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.03 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Board shall elect a President and a Vice-President.
   (B)   The Board shall employ a Secretary who is not a member of the Board.
It may also employ a harbor master. The Board shall, if practicable, use civil
service methods for such selection.
(1999 Code, § 31.03) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.04 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet at least four times a year within the village. It shall
give proper public notice of all meetings and all meetings shall be open to the
public. The Board shall maintain minutes of its meetings and such minutes shall
be open to public inspection.
(1999 Code, § 31.04) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.05 EXPENDITURES; HARBOR FUND.
   There is created a Harbor Fund, and the Village Board shall, from time to
time, make appropriations for this Fund. Money will be paid out of the Harbor
Fund only on orders signed by the President and Secretary of the Board of
Harbor Commissioners after allowances of the claims made by the Board are
entered into its minutes.
(1999 Code, § 31.05) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.06 BUDGET REQUESTS.
   On October 1 of every year, the Board shall file with the Village Clerk a
budget request for the ensuing year.
(1999 Code, § 31.06) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.07 DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.
   All revenues received from the activities of the Board shall be paid into
the General Fund of the village; provided, that the Village Treasurer shall
keep a separate record of all such receipts.
(1999 Code, § 31.07) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.08 LIMIT ON OBLIGATIONS.
   The Board may obligate neither itself nor the village for an amount greater
than the balance in the Harbor Fund referred to in §
30.05 of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 31.08) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Board of Harbor Commissioners shall make an annual report to the Village
Board.
(1999 Code, § 31.09) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.10 AREA OF AUTHORITY.
   Subject to laws of the state and of the United States, the Board shall have
jurisdiction over all water of Lake Pepin inside the United States government
breakwater and the piers which are or become a part of the breakwater. The
Board of Harbor Commissioners shall also make any recommendations to the
Village Board it deems to be in the public interest with regard to any
waterfront property in the village.
(1999 Code, § 31.10) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Harbor Commissioners shall have exclusive control over
the day-to-day operation of the public harbor and public harbor facilities as
set forth in Wis. Stat. § 30.38, but the Village Board shall have exclusive
control over the governmental aspects relating to public health, order, and
safety. All powers not specifically granted to the Board of Harbor
Commissioners in this subchapter are reserved for the Village Board.
   (B)   The Board of Harbor Commissioners may:
      (1)   Make necessary plans for harbor improvements;
      (2)   With the consent of the Village Board, acquire land;
      (3)   Maintain public harbor facilities;
      (4)   Operate and/or lease publicly-owned piers, wharves, and other
terminal facilities; provided, that all such leases shall be entered into the
minutes of the Board of Harbor Commissioners;
      (5)   Assign berths; or
      (6)   Promote the use of the harbor and its facilities.
(1999 Code, § 31.11) (Ord. 75, passed 11-3-1962)
§ 30.12 LEASE OF HARBOR FACILITIES.
   The Village Board, at its discretion, may from time to time lease the harbor
facilities to a private individual, partnership, or corporation. When such
harbor facilities are so leased, compliance with this subchapter shall be
suspended, and the terms of the lease shall control harbor administration.
(1999 Code, § 31.12)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.25 GENERALLY.
   There is hereby established a Planning Commission as allowed by state
statute together with the powers and obligations attendant to that body.
(Res. 20410, passed 4-10-2000)
TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 30.40 CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby created, pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 66.0615(1m)(c), a
Village Tourism Commission.
   (B)   Seventy percent of the gross receipts of the room tax collected by the
village under Ch. 112 shall be forwarded to the Commission to be spent on
tourism promotion and development by the Commission, including capital
improvement projects within the village.
   (C)   The tourism entity shall advise and inform the Village Board of each
capital improvement which it intends to implement prior thereto. If the Village
Board objects to such expenditure, it shall inform the Tourism Commission of
its objection and no room tax money shall be spent on that particular project.
(Res. 2022-215, passed 2-15-2022)
§ 30.41 PURPOSE AND DUTIES.
   The purpose and duties of the Tourism Commission shall be to use the room
tax revenue that it receives from the village to develop and execute a tourism
marketing plan for tourism promotion and tourism development for the village.
The Commission shall have the authority and carry out the duties set forth in
Wis. Stat. § 66.0175(1m)(c) and (d), and as otherwise provided by law. Such
duties shall include, without limitation, the following.
   (A)   The Tourism Commission shall monitor the collection of the room tax.
The Commission shall report any delinquencies or inaccurate reporting to the
Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   The Tourism Commission contracts as needed with a qualified
organization under Wis. Stat.§ 66.0615, to perform the functions of a tourism
entity as defined under the statute and shall ensure that the money distributed
to the tourism entity shall be used for tourism promotion and tourism
development as defined in Wis. Stat. § 66.0615.
      (2)   These activities include any of the following that are
significantly used by transient tourists and reasonably likely to generate paid
overnight stays at more than one establishment on which room tax may be
imposed:
         (a)   Marketing projects, including advertising media buys, creation
and distribution of printed or electronic promotional tourist materials, or
efforts to recruit conventions, sporting events, or motorcoach groups;
         (b)   Transient tourist informational services; and
         (c)   Tangible municipal development, including, but not limited to, a
convention center.
   (C)   The Commission shall operate a tourism grant program to provide
financial investments for tourism-related projects, marketing projects, and/or
events that promote and develop tourism in the village which substantially
increases overnight stays within the village.
   (D)   The Commission shall report to the Village Board of Trustees at least
quarterly the purposes for which the room tax revenues it received were spent.
   (E)   The Commission may not, however, use any of the room tax revenue it
receives to construct or develop a lodging facility.
   (F)   The Tourism Commission shall in a timely manner provide the Village
Treasurer with the information needed to make the reports required under Wis.
Stat. § 66.0615, to the State Department of Revenue.
(Res. 2022-215, passed 2-15-2022)
§ 30.42 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. Public structures or fixtures which are designed for
and are determined to facilitate tourism promotion and tourism development.
Such improvements may include, but are not limited to, signs, lighting,
sidewalk improvements, banners, flower programs, park development, farmer’s
market physical improvements, and landscaping, together with other public
infrastructure, but shall not include contribution toward or redevelopment of
any lodging facility.
   COMMISSION. As set forth in Wis. Stat. § 66.0615(1)(a).
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The meaning as defined in Wis. Stat. § 77.51(4)(a), (b) and
(c), insofar as applicable. Any federal and state tax exempt transactions shall
not be included in the definition of GROSS RECEIPTS.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which the public may
obtain accommodations for a consideration, including, without limitation, such
establishments as inns, motels, tourist homes, tourist houses or courts,
lodging houses, summer camps, apartment hotels, resort lodges, campgrounds,
cabins, and any other building or group of buildings in which the
accommodations are available to the public, except accommodations rented for a
continuous period of more than one month and accommodations furnished by any
hospital, sanatoriums, or nursing homes, rooming houses, or by corporations or
associations organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable or
educational purposes; provided that no part of the net earnings of such
corporations and associations inures to the benefit of any private shareholder
or individual.
   TOURISM ENTITY. The definition set forth in Wis. Stat. § 66.0615(1)(f).
   TOURISM PROMOTION AND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT. As set forth at Wis. Stat. §
66.0615(1)(fm).
   TRANSIENT. Any individual residing for a continuous period of less than one
month in a motel, hotel or other furnished accommodations available to the
public.
   TREASURER. The Village Treasurer.
(Res. 2022-215, passed 2-15-2022)
§ 30.43 COMMISSION STRUCTURE.
   The Commission shall consist of a membership as follows:
   (A)   Five persons to be appointed by the Village President, subject to the
confirmation by a majority of the Village Board who are present when the vote
is taken. Commissioners shall serve for a one- year term, at the pleasure of
the Village President, and may be reappointed up to a maximum of six terms;
   (B)   One member shall represent the village hotel and motel industry;
   (C)   A member of the Village Board shall be appointed by the Village
President, as a non-voting member for a two-year term coinciding with biennial
election cycles;
   (D)   Other municipal officials may be appointed as needed as ex-officio
members; and
   (E)   The members of the Commission shall elect, from among its members, a
chairperson, a vice chairperson and secretary.
(Res. 2022-215, passed 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 31: VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Volunteer Fire Department
Bylaws of the Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.15   Application for membership
   
31.16   Meetings; order of business; rules of order
   
31.17   Election of officers
   
31.18   Expulsion of members; absences
   
31.19   Fire alarms; practice drills
   
31.20   Duties of officers and members
   
31.21   General rules
   
31.22   Amendments
   
31.23   Fire Department service fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Creation and membership generally.
      (1)   There is hereby created a department of the village to be known as
the Pepin Volunteer Fire Department.
      (2)   This Department shall consist of a Chief, Assistant Chiefs, and
such other officers and members as may be needed and as are authorized under
this section.
   (B)   Chief. There is hereby created the office of Chief, who shall be
elected and shall have the duties as provided in the bylaws of the Volunteer
Fire Department, as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.23 of this chapter. He or she shall attend and be in command at all fires,
supervise all members of the Fire Department, assign duties, prescribe
regulations, and be responsible for all property connected with the Fire
Department subject to the general supervision of the Village Board.
   (C)   Assistant Chiefs. There is hereby created the office of the Assistant
Chiefs who shall be elected and shall have the duties as provided in the bylaws
of the Volunteer Fire Department, as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.23 of this chapter.
   (D)   Orders to be obeyed. It shall be unlawful for any firefighter or other
person to neglect or refuse to obey an order or direction of the officer in
command at a fire, when such order or direction is given in and about the
management, control, or extinguishing of the fire.
   (E)   Qualifications of members. The membership of the Department shall be
limited to citizens who have attained the age of at least 18 years. The Fire
Department shall be organized in accordance with the provisions in divisions
(F) through (J) below and in accordance with the bylaws of the Volunteer Fire
Department, as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.23 of this chapter.
   (F)   Name of organization. This organization shall be known by the name and
style of the Pepin Volunteer Fire Department.
   (G)   Persons eligible for membership. Any citizen of the village who has
attained the age of 18 years and whose application has been represented at a
previous meeting may be elected as a member of the organization in the manner
set out in its bylaws; provided, that no person shall be elected to membership
if, at the time of his or her application, the roll of members contains as many
as are permitted by the village ordinances.
   (H)   Officers. The officers shall consist of a Chief, First and Second
Assistants, and a Secretary/Treasurer, all of whom shall be elected annually in
the manner prescribed in the bylaws of the Fire Department.
   (I)   Duties. Duties of the Volunteer Fire Department officers shall be as
set forth in the bylaws of the Volunteer Fire Department, as set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.23 of this chapter.
   (J)   Bylaws. 
      (1)   The bylaws of this Department may make provisions as to the time of
holding meetings and the manner of calling and conducting the same, may fix the
amount of fees and dues of members, may define offenses to be punished by
penalties and forfeitures and fix the amount of such penalties and forfeitures,
may prescribe the manner in which persons may become members and in what cases
and in what manner members may be suspended or expelled, and may provide for
such other regulations as are necessary and proper for the efficient operation
of the Volunteer Fire Department.
      (2)   Such bylaws shall in no way conflict with the village ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 32.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
BYLAWS OF THE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.15 APPLICATION FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The names of all applicants for membership shall be announced at a
regular or special meeting of the Fire Department, either by the Secretary or
the member who is sponsoring the applicant. The application of the candidate
shall be turned over to the Chief for investigation. The Chief shall report at
the earliest possible meeting upon his or her acceptance or rejection of the
applicant.
   (B)   All applicants after appointment must serve a probationary period of
three months. If prior to the end of this period, the Chief shall file with the
Secretary a written report that the applicant shows satisfactory proficiency in
drills and firefighting knowledge, he or she shall become a full member upon
confirmation by the Chief and his or her Assistant Chief.
   (C)   Any person residing within five miles of the village may be an active
member of the Fire Department.
(1999 Code, § 32.15)
§ 31.16 MEETINGS; ORDER OF BUSINESS; RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Meetings.
      (1)   The annual meeting of the Fire Department shall be held on the
third Thursday of the month of November of each year. Newly elected officials
will take office January 1 of the following year.
      (2)   The regular monthly meeting shall be held the third Thursday of
each month at 7:00 p.m. or other hour specified on the notice of the meeting
      (3)   A special meeting may be called by the Chief at any time or shall
be called by the Chief if given written request signed by five members. The
object of the meeting must be stated in the call and no business other than the
business stated in the call may be transacted. However, applications for
membership may be presented, and the bills ordered paid. Notice of such
meetings must be mailed by the Secretary two days in advance of special
meetings, except in case of a meeting made immediately necessary by an
emergency, in which case the Secretary shall make every possible effort to
notify directly all members of the Fire Department in some manner of the
meeting.
   (B)   Order of business. The following shall constitute the order of
business at a meeting:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of all minutes of meetings not yet approved;
      (3)   Communications and bills;
      (4)   Committees reports;
      (5)   Treasurer report;
      (6)   Applications for membership;
      (7)   Unfinished business;
      (8)   New business; and
      (9)   Adjournment.
   (C)   Rules of order. A quorum for any meeting shall consist of a majority
of the members of the Fire Department. All questions concerning rules of order
shall be decided by the latest edition of Robert’s Rules of Order.
(1999 Code, § 32.16)
§ 31.17 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The election of the Secretary/Treasurer, Chief, and his or her First
and Second Assistants shall be held at the annual meeting, and only members in
good standing at the time of the annual meeting are qualified to vote.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to report to the Village Board the
names of the elected and appointed officers immediately after election or
appointment.
   (C)   All committees shall be appointed by the Chief.
(1999 Code, § 32.17)
§ 31.18 EXPULSION OF MEMBERS; ABSENCES.
   (A)   Generally. Any active member who fails to attend three consecutive
meetings or drills or who fails to attend at least 5% of all the fires in a
year shall be automatically expelled, unless the absence is caused by sickness.
Time shall be figured from the day of the annual meeting. The names of members
so expelled shall be read at the next meeting following their expulsion, and
their names shall be dropped from the roll of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Leaves of absence. Leaves of absence may be granted by the Chief for
reasons acceptable to the Chief.
   (C)   Expelled member. An expelled member shall return to the commanding
officer of his or her company all Fire Department property in his or her care.
   (D)   Power of the Chief to excuse absences.
      (1)   The Chief shall have the power to excuse any member for absence
from fires, meetings, or other places.
      (2)   The Chief shall report all excuses granted at the next regular
meeting.
      (3)   Excuses from fires, regular meetings, adjourned meetings, or parade
or funeral shall be actual sickness of a member or member’s family; absence
from the village limits; or left in charge alone at the member’s place of
business.
      (4)   No member shall be excused from registering after a fire, except by
the Chief or Assistant Chief, and such excuses shall be stated to the Fire
Department.
(1999 Code, § 32.18)
§ 31.19 FIRE ALARMS; PRACTICE DRILLS.
   (A)   Fire alarms. The regular ringing of the fire siren for announcing fire
alarms shall constitute an alarm of fire.
   (B)   Practice drills.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to call for a practice drill
whenever he or she deems it advisable. Any member refusing or failing to
respond to any such drill may be suspended or placed on probation by the Chief.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to arrange the drills and
training so that they will include proper and efficient use of all appliances
and apparatus, the quick handling and laying and raising of hose, handling of
streams, use of shut-off nozzles, siamese connections, forcible entry tools,
salvage work, ladder work, and life-saving and modern methods of
extinguishment.
(1999 Code, § 32.19)
§ 31.20 DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND MEMBERS.
   (A)   Duties of the Chief.
      (1)   The Chief shall designate the members of the Fire Department as
laddermen and nozzlemen in such numbers as he or she may determine.
      (2)   The Chief shall prescribe fire alarm signals for use by the Fire
Department and shall have the fire alarm tested at a regular time each day.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the Chief to see that all the hose is
thoroughly washed and dried after use at fires and drills, that no wet or dirty
hose is placed on the apparatus, and that all apparatus and equipment is
properly cleaned and in place.
      (4)   The Chief shall see that the position of all hose on apparatus is
changed every 90 days, is not otherwise used, and that water is run through it
every 90 days. The Chief shall see that all new hose is tested and passes the
Underwriters specifications for hydrostatic pressure and that all hose is
tested semi-annually at a hydrostatic pressure of 200 pounds.
      (5)   The Chief shall investigate and make every effort to determine the
cause of each fire and shall preserve all evidence of incendiaries.
      (6)   The Chief shall direct a quarterly inspection of all hydrants and
fire cisterns and approaches to natural water supplies, and during winter
months, shall see that they are kept free from snow and ice. The Chief need not
be made responsible for the condition and inspection of fire hydrants where
this is an accepted duty of the Water Department.
   (B)   Duties of the Assistant Chief.
      (1)   The Assistant Chief shall report to the Chief at fires and assist
the Chief in the discharge of his or her duties. In the absence of the Chief,
the First Assistant Chief, and if both are absent, the Second Assistant Chief
shall officiate in the capacity of Chief.
      (2)   The First Assistant Chief, and in his or her absence, the Second
Assistant Chief, shall preside at all meetings in the absence of the Chief and
shall appoint all committees called for at a meeting at which he or she may
preside.
      (3)   Should the Chief and both Assistant Chiefs be absent from a fire,
the person having charge of the apparatus first arriving at the fire shall
assume the duties of the Chief until the arrival of a superior officer.
   (C)   Duties of the Secretary/Treasurer.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Secretary/Treasurer to keep the minutes
of all meetings, handle all Fire Department correspondence, keep a register of
all the names of all the members of the Fire Department, issue all notices,
collect fines, assessments and other moneys due to the Fire Department, and
deposit and the same in such bank as the Chief may designate in the name of the
Fire Department. He or she shall, if possible, give each member at least two
full days’ notice of any special meeting. He or she shall notify each person
appointed a member of the Fire Department of such appointment, and shall
furnish him or her with a copy of the bylaws.
      (2)   The Secretary/Treasurer shall keep a written account of all moneys
received and expended by the Fire Department. He or she shall issue orders to
pay out the Fire Department funds in his or her custody only such accounts as
the Fire Department has properly authorized paid and only on warrants properly
drawn and signed by the Chief. He or she shall submit to the meeting a monthly
and annual statements of the amounts on hand or due.
   (D)   Duties of nozzlemen.
      (1)   The duties of the nozzlemen shall include the handling of small
extinguishers and water and chemical lines to extinguish fires with a minimum
amount of water damage.
      (2)   At fires in buildings, hose lines shall be advanced into the
building with the nozzles shut off and not opened until fire is seen. After the
main body of the fire is extinguished, the nozzle shall be shut off and the
remainder cleaned up with a small hose or a small tip on the shut-off nozzle.
      (3)   In laying a line from a hydrant to a fire, nozzlemen shall drop off
with the butt end of the hose and wrench, connect to the hydrant, and stand by
for the signal for water.
      (4)   In laying a line from the fire to a hydrant or cistern, nozzlemen
shall drop off at the fire with the nozzle and ample hose to reach the fire and
the laddermen’s tools shall be unloaded. The engine shall then be driven to the
hydrant and the hose connected.
   (E)   Duties of laddermen.
      (1)   The general duties of laddermen at fires are to ascertain that all
occupants of a burning building are out, to make rescues, raise ladders, and
open up and ventilate burning buildings so that nozzlemen may quickly bring
their streams on the fire. Laddermen carrying axes and plaster hooks should
accompany nozzlemen working inside buildings to open partitions or ceilings.
      (2)   Laddermen may be responsible for salvage operations to reduce water
damage. They may promptly spread salvage covers where they will be most
effective, usually below the fire. They may quickly assemble the contents of
the rooms being covered so as to cover as much property as possible with one
cover. After the fire, water and debris may be removed, holes in the roof
covered, if possible, and salvage covers may be cleaned and dried.
      (3)   Laddermen shall quickly remove axes, plaster hooks, and necessary
ladders from the apparatus, carry them to the building, and use them as
directed.
   (F)   Duties of members. It shall be the duty of the members of the Fire
Department, as often as any fire shall break out, to proceed immediately upon
the alarm thereof to the position of the fire. The members shall report to the
fire station and convey their apparatus to the fire, unless otherwise directed
by the Chief or other officers who may be in charge. When so directed, they
shall return their apparatus, well washed and cleaned, to the fire station.
(1999 Code, § 32.20)
§ 31.21 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Members shall, upon arriving at a fire, report to the Chief. They
shall prepare themselves in readiness to do what may be required of them. All
members shall assist in the work of the Fire Department whether it may be their
assigned duties or not.
   (B)   Prompt, quiet obedience shall be given to orders from officers and
disruption cannot be allowed while on duty.
   (C)   A civil demeanor should always be preserved towards all non-members of
the Fire Department, but no orders shall be taken from them.
   (D)   All reckless destruction of property shall be avoided and members must
remember that it is their duty to protect property.
   (E)   The position of the members at a fire shall be determined by the
Chief. The Assistant Chief shall report to the Chief any changes which he or
she considers necessary in the placing of hose crews and other equipment.
   (F)   Members stationed along hose lines shall see that no heavy articles,
wagons, or cars are moved or dragged across the hose, that spectators do not
stand upon or charge the lines, to report at once the bursting of the length in
charge, and to pass orders to and from the hydrant. As soon as a person
executes an order which calls him or her from his or her assigned location, he
or she shall return to it without delay.
   (G)   At a fire, it shall be the duty of the Chief to require that the
Police Department, Sheriff’s Department, or Fire Department tapes are used to
restrict the area to keep outsiders back, and to require that only firefighters
come inside, and after the fire to see that the tapes are returned.
   (H)   No persons shall be allowed to enter any fire house or handle any
apparatus or implements belonging to the Fire Department, unless accompanied by
an active member of the Fire Department.
   (I)   No member shall appear at meetings or on duty in a state of
intoxication or shall be guilty of using insulting, indecent, or improper
language or be guilty of a conduct unbecoming a gentleman. For such improper
conduct, he or she may be subject to suspension.
   (J)   Each member of the Fire Department shall be held personally
responsible for all Fire Department equipment in his or her possession.
(1999 Code, § 32.21)
§ 31.22 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   A proposal to amend the bylaws may be made at any regular meeting when
a quorum is present and must be submitted in writing. The proposed amendment
shall be mailed with the notice of regular meeting and a ballot taken on the
amendment at the meeting following the one at which the proposed amendment was
submitted.
   (B)   A two-thirds affirmation vote of the members of the Fire Department
shall be necessary to amend or alter the bylaws. Such amendment, if voted,
shall take affect upon approval by the Village Board.
   (C)   The state requires a minimum of 60 hours training of firefighting for
all new members. Before a member completes this course, he or she cannot be
near the fire scene. He or she can run the pumps and drag hoses. The state
requires full turn out gear to be worn on the scene of a fire or accident. If
the courses are available, new members are to complete it within the first
year. Cost of the course and books are paid by the village. Upon completion of
the course, the state reimburses the village for this cost.
(1999 Code, § 32.22)
§ 31.23 FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to ease the Fire Department’s
burden on the taxpayers by attempting to recover costs associated with
providing services to tax-exempt properties and or entities, corporations,
negligent parties, and insurance providers. Provided, however, that the Village
Board retains the authority to waive any fire service fees upon submission of
an appropriate application of an owner showing a hardship.
   (B)   Types of fees. The Village Clerk shall collect the following fees.
      (1)   User fees. The Village Clerk shall collect a fee based on costs
incurred by the municipality for the following services performed by the Fire
Department where:
         (a)   The Fire Department responds to a structure fire where fire
suppressant is necessary and fire investigation determines that the fire was
caused by any action or inaction, other than arson;
         (b)   The Fire Department responds to a fire call on a state trunk
highway or any highway that is part of the national system of interstate
highways caused by a negligent party; or
         (c)   The Fire Department responds to a vehicle fire for a non-
resident vehicle owner.
         (d)   The Fire Department responds to a non-emergency security alarm,
unless responding officers find evidence of a crime, an emergency, or a fire,
it is considered a false alarm and is subject to a charge per the fee schedule.
         (e)   The Fire Department responds to a reuest for services for
incidents not involving any of the above listed situations.
      (2)   Hazardous or other spill clean-up. The Village Clerk shall collect
a fee in order to recover the costs incurred by the village for the abatement
and cleanup of any hazardous or non-hazardous spill.
   (C)   Fee schedule. The fees provided under this section shall be based, in
part, on the costs of providing these services, whether the services are
provided to a resident, non-resident, or business entity and whether the
resident or business resides on or operates from a tax exempt parcel of real
estate located within the village. The fee shall be in an amount as established
from time to time by the Village Board by resolution. A schedule of the current
fees shall be published by the Village Board and available at the office of the
Village Clerk. The fee schedule in effect upon the adoption of this section is
as follows.
Fire Services Fee Schedule
Service Fee
Fire Services Fee Schedule
Service                                 Fee
Cleanup of hazardous or other spill     $500 per hour
cleanup
Fire response to a vehicle fire on      Actual costs up to $200 or as
county trunk highway                    prescribed in the state statutes, as
                                        may be amended periodically
Fire response to a structure fire where $500 per call
fire suppressant is used
Response to a fire call or vehicle fire Actual costs up to $500 or as
on a state trunk highway                prescribed in state statutes, as may be
                                        amended periodically
                                        1st: $0 (warning)
Response to a false security system     2nd: $200
alarm in a consecutive 12-month period  3rd: $300
                                        4th and subsequent: $400
Response for other Department services  Actual costs up to $200
rendered
 
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013; Res. 2023-0612-B, passed 6-12-2023)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   County and state taxes
Special Assessment Policies
   
32.15   Policy for special assessments for utility construction
   
32.16   Definitions
   
32.17   Basis for special assessments concerning water and sewer mains and
associated utility improvements
   
32.18   Connection charge in lieu of assessment
   
32.19   Federal, state, or county aid
   
32.20   Notice of special assessment and hearing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COUNTY AND STATE TAXES.
   Pursuant Wis. Stat. § 70.67(2), the village is hereby obligated and
guarantees payment to the County Treasurer of all state and county taxes
required by law to be paid by the Village Treasurer to the County Treasurer.
(Res. passed 1-7-2002)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICIES
§ 32.15 POLICY FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR UTILITY CONSTRUCTION.
   The policy set out in this subchapter shall provide the basis for special
assessment to owners for utility construction within the village.
(1999 Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose special assessments, see Wis. Stat. § 66.0701
§ 32.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING FRONTAGE. The part of a lot, parcel, or property which abuts or
fronts on an improvement.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line 25 feet from the street right-of-way line.
   EXISTING STREET. Streets opened to travel prior to November 20, 1978.
   IRREGULAR LOT. A lot within a subdivision abutting a cul-de-sac or curved
street approximately equal in area to other lots within the division; however,
having unusually short abutting frontage in comparison to the other lots.
   LONG FRONTAGE. The long dimension of a corner lot regardless of the house
orientation.
   REMOTE LOTS. Lots or parcels without abutting frontage which receive benefit
from the improvement.
   SHORT FRONTAGE. The short dimension of a corner lot regardless of the house
orientation.
   SUBDIVISION. As defined in Wis. Stat. § 236.02(12).
(1999 Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
§ 32.17 BASIS FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS CONCERNING WATER AND SEWER MAINS, AND
ASSOCIATED UTILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
   All sanitary sewer construction shall conform to Wis. Admin. Code NR 110.
The following formulas shall apply to all of the aforementioned improvement
projects to be assessed to property owners.
   (A)   Each of the capital improvements may be assessed separately or
combined for assessment purposes.
   (B)   The overhead costs for engineering and construction staking and
inspection shall be included as a part of the total improvements and assessed
against the abutting property in accordance with aforementioned policies. A
charge equal to 15% of the construction cost shall be made if it is not
possible to determine the exact amount of the overhead costs applicable to a
particular improvement involving property annexed into the village.
   (C)   The cost of improvements abutting an alley or street right-of-way
shall be included in the total project cost and assessed against the assessable
abutting frontage.
   (D)   The following formula shall be the basis for making assessments on all
improvements, except as otherwise indicated in §§
32.15 or
32.16 of this subchapter:
      (1)   Interior lots and parcels: assess on the basis of 100% to abutting
frontage.
      (2)   Corner lots and parcels: assess on the following basis:
         (a)   One hundred percent of the short frontage;
         (b)   Twenty-five percent of the first 120 feet of the long frontage
and 100% of the long frontage over 120 feet.
      (3)   Irregular lots: assess or the basis of the frontage length at the
building setback line or the average abutting front of a regular interior lot.
      (4)   Remote lots: assess on the basis of the average abutting frontage
of a regular interior lot.
      (5)   Open undeveloped property: assess on the following basis:
         (a)   One hundred percent of the total abutting frontage if the
improvement effects only agricultural or open undeveloped property; and
         (b)   Eighty percent of abutting agricultural frontage if the
improvements effect both agricultural and existing developed or subdivided
property. The reduction in assessable frontage shall compensate for future
alleys and intersections which would not be assessed and provide an equitable
basis for assessment between developed and undeveloped property.
   (E)   The following formula shall be used as the basis for making
assessments for driveway entrances. Assess on the following basis: driveway
entrances; 100% of the cost including culverts, if needed.
   (F)   Property owners may petition the Village Board or the Village Board
may determine to have assessments made on a unit basis. In such cases, the
property owners share of the improvement costs shall be determined by using the
above assessments formula and the cost distributed to each lot over the
improvement area in accordance with this subchapter.
   (G)   Special assessments shall be subject to the going rate of interest
which the village has borrowed at on the unpaid balance.
(1999 Code, § 33.03) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
   Water regulations, see
Ch. 50
§ 32.18 CONNECTION CHARGE IN LIEU OF ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   The Village Board will establish a connection charge to be made in
lieu of special assessment. The connection charge shall be paid at time of
connection and shall be equal to the established cost of construction and
overhead at the time of connection as established by the Village Board. The
Village Board shall establish the connection charges annually. The Village
Clerk shall maintain a map indicating the locations where such charges are due.
The map shall reference the date the Board approved the construction of the
improvements.
   (B)   It is intended that the “connection charge in lieu of special
assessment” be established when utility improvements abut upon agricultural
property and are being constructed to serve another development or the general
village needs, and there is no immediate benefit to the property.
(1999 Code, § 33.04) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
§ 32.19 FEDERAL, STATE, OR COUNTY AID.
   If financed assistance is received from the federal government, state, or
county to defray a portion of the cost of an improvement, such aid shall be
first used to defray the village general, water, or wastewater utility share of
the project cost. If the aid received is more than the amount of the
improvement cost to be paid by the village General Fund, water or wastewater
utility, the remainder of the aid will be used to reduce the assessment against
abutting property owners. Such reduction to be applied to each individual
assessment portion to the ratio of that assessment to the total assessment for
the project.
(1999 Code, § 33.05) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
§ 32.20 NOTICE OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AND HEARING.
   Notice of any proposed construction which will result in a special
assessment being levied against any property within the village in conformance
with the special assessment policies outlined and set forth in this subchapter
shall be given pursuant to the provisions of Wis. Stat. § 66.60. Such statute
is hereby adopted by reference and shall apply to special assessments levied
under this subchapter. The provisions of Wis. Stat. §§ 66.0701(2) and 66.0703
(12) relating to appeal shall apply to any special assessment under this
subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 33.06) (Ord. 119, passed 12-4-1978)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN
Section
Emergency Operations Plan
   
33.01   Acronyms
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Situation and assumptions
   
33.04   Concept of operations
   
33.05   Responsibilities and tasks
   
33.06   Resource management
Key Actions
   
33.20   Chair Board chairperson
   
33.21   Village Clerk/Emergency Coordinator
   
33.22   Warning/communications
   
33.23   Law enforcement
   
33.24   Human support services
   
33.25   Public Works Department
   
33.26   Public health services
   
33.27   Emergency medical services
   
33.28   Public information
   
33.29   Fire services
   
33.30   Damage assessment
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
§ 33.01 ACRONYMS.
DNR  Department of Natural Resources
EMS  Emergency medical services
EOC  Emergency operations center
EOP  Emergency operations plan
ICP  Incident command post
PIO  Public information officer
UDSR Uniform disaster situation report
WEM  Wisconsin Emergency Management
 
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter has been developed to provide procedures for village
departments to respond to various types of emergencies or disasters that may
affect the community. It also provides a link to procedures that will be used
by the county government, since the village is part of the county emergency
management program. This plan is to be used in conjunction with the county
emergency operations plan (EOP). The municipal plan will be maintained in
accordance with current standards of the county EOP and village government.
Review of this municipal plan shall be accomplished concurrently with the
county plan.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.03 SITUATION AND ASSUMPTIONS.
   Several types of hazards pose a threat to the lives, property or environment
in the county. These hazards are outlined in the county hazard analysis and the
federally approved pre-disaster mitigation plan. A copy of each is located in
the County Emergency Management office.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.04 CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Municipal officials have primary responsibility for disasters which
take place in the village. They will activate the appropriate municipal
agencies to deal with the disaster. The chair or the Municipal Emergency
Coordinator is responsible for coordinating the response of municipal agencies
and coordinating the response with county officials if county assistance is
necessary.
   (B)   Actions that the village and county should consider if this plan is
activated:
      (1)   Municipal agencies initially assess the nature and scope of the
emergency or disaster;
      (2)   If the situation can be handled locally, do so using the procedures
in this plan, as appropriate:
         (a)   The Emergency Management Coordinator advises the chair and
coordinates emergency response actions;
         (b)   The chair declares a local state of emergency and notifies the
County Emergency Management Director of this action;
         (c)   Forward the local state of emergency declaration to the County
Emergency Management office or the County Board chairperson for concurrence;
         (d)   The Emergency Coordinator activates the municipal emergency
operations center (EOC). This facility will be located at village hall or
designated area;
         (e)   Municipal emergency response officials/agencies respond
according to the checklists outlined in §§
33.20 through
33.30;
         (f)   Chair directs departments/agencies to respond to the situation;
         (g)   Chair issues directives as to travel restrictions on local roads
and recommends protective actions if necessary;
         (h)   Notify the public of the situation and recommend appropriate
actions to take; and
         (I)   Keep county officials informed of the situation and actions
taken.
      (3)   If municipal resources become exhausted or if special resources are
required, request county assistance through the County Emergency Management
Director;
      (4)   If assistance is requested, the County Emergency Management
Director assesses the situation and makes recommendations;
      (5)   The county will do the following (to the extent appropriate):
         (a)   Activate the county emergency operating center;
         (b)   Implement the county emergency operations plan;
         (c)   Respond with county resources as requested;
         (d)   Activate mutual aid agreements;
         (e)   Coordinate county resources with municipal resources;
         (f)   Notify the Wisconsin Emergency Management (WEM) Regional
Director;
         (g)   Forward uniform damage situation report (UDSR) form; and
         (h)   Assist municipality with prioritizing and allocating resources.
      (6)   If municipal and county resources are exhausted, the County
Emergency Management Director can request state assistance through Wisconsin
Emergency Management (WEM);
      (7)   If state assistance is requested, the WEM Administrator in
conjunction with the Regional Director, County Emergency Management Director
and Municipal Emergency Coordinator assess the disaster or emergency situation,
and recommend that personnel, services and equipment be made available for
response, mitigation or recovery;
      (8)   After completing the assessment, the WEM Regional Director
immediately notifies the State WEM Administrator;
      (9)   The State Administrator of Wisconsin Emergency Management notifies
the Governor and makes recommendations; and
      (10)   If state assistance is granted, procedures will be followed as
stated in the state EOP and the county EOP.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.05 RESPONSIBILITIES AND TASKS.
   See §§
33.20 through
33.30 for emergency responsibilities of key officials in the village.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.06 RESOURCE MANAGEMENT.
   Additional support from village departments may include the following.
   (A)   Support from private agencies/volunteer groups. County Emergency
Management will contact American Red Cross to serve as the lead agency for
volunteer groups.
   (B)   Support from state and federal agencies. Information and assistance in
securing state or federal support may be obtained by contacting the County
Emergency Management Director. Requests for National Guard assistance should be
channeled through the County Emergency Management Director to the WEM Regional
Director to the WEM Administrator.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
KEY ACTIONS
§ 33.20 CHAIR BOARD CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the responsibilities and tasks of
the chair/Village Administrator/Manager and provide a checklist of actions to
consider when this municipal plan is activated.
   (B)   The chair is responsible for the overall management of the village.
The following tasks represent a checklist of actions which should be considered
in emergency or disaster situations:
      (1)   Ensure that the Village Emergency Coordinator or designated person
has activated/is activating the emergency operations center (EOC) or incident
command post;
      (2)   Report to the emergency operations center or command post;
      (3)   Ensure that the Village Emergency Coordinator, Incident Commander
or designated individuals provide an initial damage assessment and casualty
report;
      (4)   Ensure that village officials and EOC staff are briefed as to the
status of the disaster;
      (5)   Write an incident action plan to address needs for the next 24 to
48 hours;
      (6)   Ensure the Village Public Information Officer (PIO) and/or
designated person is notified and reports to the EOC;
      (7)   Be prepared to issue a declaration of emergency if needed;
      (8)   Delegate authority to department heads to permit acquisition of
equipment and supplies needed following a disaster; and
      (9)   In consultation with the Village Emergency Coordinator, determine
whether or not county, state or federal assistance should be requested.
(Village/county resources must be fully committed before state or federal
assistance will be available. If assistance is requested, specify the type and
amount of assistance needed.)
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.21 VILLAGE CLERK/EMERGENCY COORDINATOR.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the responsibilities and tasks of
the Village Clerk/Emergency Coordinator and provide a checklist of actions to
consider when this municipal plan is activated.
   (B)   Village Clerk/Emergency Coordinator should:
      (1)   Report to the command post or EOC if one has already been
established;
      (2)   Ensure that village officials and the County Emergency Management
Director have been notified and key facilities warned;
      (3)   Activate the village EOC (see EOC alerting list). Make sure that it
is fully operational and that EOC staff have reported/are reporting to it;
      (4)   Obtain initial damage report and other relevant information from
the Incident Commander. Relay this information to the chair and to the County
Emergency Management Director;
      (5)   Conduct regular briefings of EOC staff as to the status of the
situation;
      (6)   Designate an assessment/information gathering team to evaluate the
scope of the disaster if needed;
      (7)   Assess available resources and personnel. If deficiencies exist,
take action to obtain the needed resources;
      (8)   Ensure that all department/agency heads have kept separate and
accurate records of disaster related expenditures. Assign account numbers to
which department heads can charge emergency expenditures;
      (9)   Maintain records indicating village expenses incurred due to the
disaster; and
      (10)   Assist in the damage assessment process by providing property
information. The dollar value of property damaged as a result of the disaster,
as well as owner name and contact information.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.22 WARNING/COMMUNICATIONS.
   This section is designed to identify the department or agency in the
municipality responsible for warning and communications activities, and
provides a list of actions this department/agency should consider when this
municipal plan is activated:
   (A)   Warn the following:
      (1)   Municipal elected official;
      (2)   Municipal Emergency Management Coordinator/Director;
      (3)   County Emergency Management Director/Coordinator;
      (4)   Municipal emergency operations center representatives; and
      (5)   Special facilities.
   (B)   Ensure all agencies represented in the municipal EOC have
communications both to their staff at their department offices and their staff
at the incident site. This equipment consists of telephone, pagers, radios,
cell phones, fax and the like);
   (C)   Activate public warning system. This may consist of warning system
sirens, door-to-door, village area schools pre-K-12 parent notification:
contact Administrator to activate. Develop assignment on how alert, watch and
warning would be handled prior to a disaster or emergency situation;
   (D)   Establish communications with the county EOC if activated or the
County Emergency Management office. The communications equipment available is
telephone, pagers, radios, fax and the like); and
   (E)   Establish communications with the command post.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.23 LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This section is designed to provide a list of actions the Police
Department should consider when the municipal plan is activated.
   (B)   The Police Department is responsible for law enforcement activities in
the village.
      (1)   The following tasks represent a checklist of actions which this
Department should consider in an emergency or disaster situation:
         (a)   Size up the situation; establish a staging area; designate a
command post; call for additional resources as needed; and assume initial
command until relieved;
         (b)   Ensure that all law enforcement staff have been notified and
that they report as situation directs;
         (c)   Direct the designated law enforcement representatives to report
to the incident command post and the village emergency operations center (if
established);
         (d)   Secure the affected area and perform traffic and crowd control;
         (e)   Participate in warning the public as situation warrants;
         (f)   Provide ongoing information regarding the scope of incident as
to casualties/destruction and whether the incident has the potential to expand
and escalate;
         (g)   Direct officer(s) to close off the damage site area and to stop
all in-bound traffic;
         (h)   Report closures and detours to the appropriate law enforcement
agencies; and
         (I)   Set up an emergency pass system if needed.
      (2)   Other responsibilities may include:
         (a)   Enforce curfew restrictions in the affected area;
         (b)   Coordinate the removal of vehicles blocking evacuation or other
response activities;
         (c)   Assist the medical examiner with mortuary services. Assist with
search and rescue activities;
         (d)   If the county EOC is activated, establish and maintain contact
with the person representing law enforcement; and
         (e)   Try to anticipate your Department’s needs for manpower and
equipment 24 hours in advance. If additional assistance is needed, utilize
emergency police services and mutual aid agreements with other police
departments.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.24 HUMAN SUPPORT SERVICES KEY ACTION CHECKLIST.
   (A)   The Village Clerk will serve as the Human Support Services Coordinator
in the village and is responsible for resident service activities in the
village. This person will keep the County Human Services Officer informed of
all human services activities performed, underway or planned within the
municipality.
   (B)   The following tasks represent a checklist of actions which the
Coordinator may consider in an emergency or disaster situation:
      (1)   Report to the emergency operations center;
      (2)   Coordinate activities of municipal agencies/departments which
provide human services type services;
      (3)   Provide emergency assistance to persons with special needs;
      (4)   Coordinate with American Red Cross in opening and managing shelters
in the municipality;
      (5)   Work with Red Cross/Salvation Army in providing food and water to
disaster victims and ensure that canteen services are available to feed
emergency workers;
      (6)   Provide necessary outreach services to citizens affected by the
emergency or disaster;
      (7)   Distribute information to disaster victims regarding assistance for
their immediate needs;
      (8)   Provide psychological counseling and crisis intervention to
disaster victims; and
      (9)   If the county EOC is activated, establish and maintain contact with
the person representing human services. If the county EOC is not activated,
establish and maintain contact with the County Department of Human Services.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.25 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the Department in the
municipality responsible for public works activities and provides a list of
actions this Department should consider. This Department, upon notification,
may respond directly to the command post or emergency operations center (EOC).
   (B)   The following tasks represent a checklist of actions this Department
should consider in an emergency or disaster situation:
      (1)   Ensure that all Department personnel have been alerted and that
they report as the situation directs;
      (2)   Report to the village EOC/command post;
      (3)   Review the disaster situation with field personnel and report
situation to the Village Emergency Management Director;
      (4)   If necessary, coordinate flood fighting activities, including
sandbagging, emergency diking and pumping operations;
      (5)   Coordinate with law enforcement regarding travel restrictions/road
closures within the municipality;
      (6)   Provide emergency generators and lighting;
      (7)   Assist with traffic-control and access to the affected area;
      (8)   Assist with urban search and rescue activities as may be requested;
      (9)   Assist private utilities with the shutdown of gas and electric
services;
      (10)   As necessary, request mutual aid and establish a staging area for
public works;
      (11)   Report public facility damage information to the damage assessment
team; and
      (12)   If the county EOC is activated, establish and maintain contact
with the County Highway Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.26 PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES.
   See county plans.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.27 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the person in the municipality
responsible for EMS activities and provides a list of actions to consider when
the municipal plan is activated. (In some counties, these may be two separate
positions). Public health is coordinated at the county level through the county
EOP. However, a liaison from the municipality should be appointed to assist
with implementing tasks assigned in the county EOP. This person will work
closely with the County Public Health Officer and the EMS officer so that
municipal/county resources can be prioritized and coordinated. The public
health liaison needs to be aware of the necessity of coordinating with
ambulance activities.
   (B)   The Emergency Ambulance Director will serve as the emergency medical
services liaison in the village and is responsible for public health and
emergency medical services activities in the village. The EMS liaison will
coordinate health services activities with a representative from the County
Public Health Department. The following tasks represent a checklist of actions
this person should consider in an emergency or disaster situation:
      (1)   Assist in evacuating nursing homes, hospitals and other medical
facilities as needed;
      (2)   Assist EMS transport officer by identifying trauma level hospitals
in the region; and
      (3)   Assure that the public health needs of disaster victims are met.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.28 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the department or agency in the
municipality responsible for public information activities and provides a list
of actions this department/agency should consider when this plan is activated.
   (B)   The Village Board EG Committee representative is responsible for
public information activities in the village. If that person is not available,
the incident commander will designate a spokesperson. The following tasks
represent a checklist of actions this department/agency should consider in an
emergency or disaster situation:
      (1)   The public information officer (PIO) will function as the sole
municipal point of contact for the news media;
      (2)   Maintain liaison with the EOC and CP in order to stay abreast of
situation;
      (3)   Establish news media briefing room and brief the media at periodic
intervals;
      (4)   If the situation escalates and the county EOC is activated,
coordinate with the county PIO to prepare joint news releases;
      (5)   Conduct press tours of disaster areas within the municipality as
the situation stabilizes;
      (6)   Assist the county in establishing a joint public information
center;
      (7)   Assist the county with establishing a rumor control center; and
      (8)   Issue protective action recommendations or public service
advisories as directed by the chief elected official.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.29 FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   This section is designed to provide a list of actions the Fire
Department should consider when this plan is activated.
   (B)   The Fire Department is responsible for fire protection services in the
village.
      (1)   The following tasks represent a checklist of actions this
Department should consider in an emergency or disaster situation:
         (a)   Establish and/or respond to designated command post and staging
area;
         (b)   Designate a staging assistant to record the arrival and
deployment of emergency personnel and equipment;
         (c)   Assist law enforcement in warning the affected population;
         (d)   Perform search and rescue;
         (e)   Protect critical facilities and resources;
         (f)   Assist law enforcement with evacuation, if needed;
         (g)   Assist the Public Works Department and utilities with shutting
down gas and electric services, if necessary; and
         (h)   Send a representative to the village emergency operations
center.
      (2)   Other responsibilities may include:
         (a)   Assist with traffic control;
         (b)   Assist with debris clearance;
         (c)   If the county EOC is activated, establish and maintain contact
with the person representing fire services; and
         (d)   If additional assistance is necessary, utilize mutual aid
agreements and/or contracts with other fire departments.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
§ 33.30 DAMAGE ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   This section is designed to identify the individuals, department or
agency in the municipality responsible for collecting damage assessment
information and provides a list of actions which should be considered when this
plan is activated.
   (B)   The Village President is responsible for damage assessment and
information gathering activities in the village, including:
      (1)   Report to the incident command post and establish a liaison with
the emergency operations center or Emergency Coordinator;
      (2)   Record initial information from first responders, such as law
enforcement, public works or fire services;
      (3)   Activate the damage assessment team which consists of the following
municipal department: Village Clerk will be responsible for public damage
assessment and those responsible for individual damage assessment.
         (a)   Within first two to three hours, complete preliminary damage
report with:
            1.   Number of fatalities;
            2.   Number of critical/minor injuries;
            3.   Number of homes and businesses damaged/destroyed;
            4.   Number of power/telephone lines and poles damaged; and
            5.   Damage to public facilities, such as highways, roads and
bridges.
         (b)   Within eight hours:
            1.   Recount items in divisions (B)(3)(a)1. through (B)(3)(a)5.
above; and
            2.   Video tape and/or take photos of major damage.
         (c)   Within 24 hours:
            1.   Update items in divisions (B)(3)(a)1. through (B)(3)(a)5.
above; and
            2.   Assist County Emergency Management in completing the uniform
disaster situation report (UDSR) for submission to the state.
      (4)   If the situation warrants, assist the chair with the preparation of
a local state of emergency declaration and forward to the County Emergency
Management Director;
      (5)   Plot damage assessment information on status boards in the
municipal EOC and locate damaged sites on a map; and
      (6)   Prepare reports for the municipal public information officer.
(Ord. passed 8-9-2010)
CHAPTER 34: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Method of contracting
§ 34.01 METHOD OF CONTRACTING.
   (A)   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 61.54, the provisions of Wis. Stat. § 62.15
shall be applicable to all village contracts.
   (B)   The authority vested by Wis. Stat. § 62.15, the Board of Public Works
shall, in this case, be exercised by the Village Board or delegated by the
Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 35.01) (Ord. 102, passed 10-27-1972)
CHAPTER 35: ELECTION OFFICIALS
Section
   
35.01   Election workers
§ 35.01 ELECTION WORKERS.
   (A)   The Village Board allows two sets of election workers to be used on
election day. The election workers may come in at the times set by the Village
Clerk. These times may vary according to the election.
   (B)   The Village of Pepin will reduce the number of election workers from
seven to three or five. This number will be based on the previous year’s
turnout for the primary or general election. The Village Board and/or the
Village Clerk will determine the number of election workers to be used.
(Res. passed 12-10-2001; Ord. passed 12-20-2001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
51.   WELLHEAD PROTECTION
      
52.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
Cross-Connection Control
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Unprotected cross-connections prohibited
   
50.03   Inspection
   
50.04   Right of entry
   
50.05   Requested information
   
50.06   Discontinuance of water service
   
50.07   Emergency discontinuance
Private Well Abandonment
   
50.20   Purpose
   
50.21   Application of provisions; exemptions
   
50.22   Well operation permit; requirements
   
50.23   Method of abandonment
   
50.24   Reports and inspections
Cross-reference:
   Basis for special assessments concerning water and sewer mains, and
associated utility improvements, see §
32.17
   Connection charge in lieu of assessment, see §
32.18
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the
village’s public water system, and the other of which contains water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other, with the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two
systems.
(1999 Code, § 50.01) (Ord. 124, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-
2013)
§ 50.02 UNPROTECTED CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation may establish or maintain, or permit to be
established or maintained, any unprotected cross-connection. Cross-connections
shall be protected as required in Wis. Admin. Code Ch. SPS 382.
(1999 Code, § 50.02) (Ord. 124, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-
2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 INSPECTION.
   The water utility may inspect, or arrange for an inspection of, property
served by the public water system for cross-connections. As an alternative, the
water utility may require a person, firm, or corporation who owns, leases, or
occupies property to have their plumbing inspected, at their own expense by
state certified cross-connection inspector/surveyor. The frequency of
inspections shall be established by the water utility in accordance with the
Wisconsin Administrative Code. Any unprotected cross-connections identified by
the inspection shall be promptly corrected. Failure to promptly correct an
unprotected cross-connection shall be sufficient cause for the water utility to
discontinue water service to the property, as provided under §
50.06 of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 50.03) (Ord. 124, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-
2013)
§ 50.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of credentials, a representative of the water utility
shall have the right to request entry, at any reasonable time, to a property
served by a connection to the public water system for the purpose of inspecting
the property for cross-connections. Refusing entry to such utility
representative shall be sufficient cause for the water utility to discontinue
water service to the property, as provided under §
50.06 of this chapter. If entry is refused, a special inspection warrant under
Wis. Stat. § 66.0119, may be obtained.
(1999 Code, § 50.04) (Ord. 124, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-
2013)
§ 50.05 REQUESTED INFORMATION.
   The water utility may request an owner, lessee, or occupant of property
served by a connection to the public water system to furnish the water utility
with pertinent information regarding the piping systems on the property.
Refusing to provide requested information shall be sufficient cause for the
water utility to discontinue water service to the property, as provided under §
50.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 50.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The water utility may discontinue water service to any property wherein any
unprotected connection in violation of this subchapter exists, and take other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water system. Water service may be discontinued,
however, only after reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing under Wis.
Stat. Ch. 68, except as provided in §
50.07 of this chapter. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until the unprotected cross-connection has been eliminated.
(1999 Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 124, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-
2013)
§ 50.07 EMERGENCY DISCONTINUANCE.
   If it is determined by the water utility that an unprotected cross-
connection or emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare, and
requires immediate action, and if a written finding to that effect is filed
with the Village Clerk and delivered to the customer’s premises, water service
may be immediately discontinued. The customer shall have an opportunity for
hearing under Wis. Stat. Ch. 68, within ten days of such emergency
discontinuance. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
unprotected cross-connection has been eliminated.
(Ord. 2013-9-1, passed 9-9-2013)
PRIVATE WELL ABANDONMENT
§ 50.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to prevent unused or improperly
constructed wells from serving as a passage for contaminated surface or near-
surface waters or other materials to reach the usable ground water. These wells
must be properly filled and sealed.
(1999 Code, § 50.15) (Ord. 129, passed 12-7-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.21 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   All private wells located on any premises which is served by the public
water system of the village shall be properly filled by January 1, 1989. Only
those wells for which a well operation permit has been granted by the Village
Clerk may be exempted from this requirement, subject to conditions of
maintenance.
(1999 Code, § 50.16) (Ord. 129, passed 12-7-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.22 WELL OPERATION PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit may be granted to a well owner to operate a well for a period not
to exceed three years if the following requirements are met (application shall
be made on forms provided by the Village Clerk):
   (A)   The well and pump installation meet the requirements of Wis. Admin.
Code NR 812 and a well constructor’s report is on file with the Department of
Natural Resources, or certification of the acceptability of the well has been
granted by the Private Water Supply Section of the Department of Natural
Resources;
   (B)   The well has a history of producing safe water and presently produces
bacteriologically safe water as evidenced by three samplings two weeks apart;
   (C)   The proposed use of the well can be justified as being necessary in
addition to water provided by the public water system; and
   (D)   No physical connection shall exist between the piping of the public
water system and the private well.
(1999 Code, § 50.17) (Ord. 129, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 50.23 METHOD OF ABANDONMENT.
   Wells to be abandoned shall be filled according to the procedures outlined
in Wis. Admin. Code NR 812.26. The pump and piping must be removed and the well
checked for obstructions prior to plugging. Any obstruction or liner must be
removed.
(1999 Code, § 50.18) (Ord. 129, passed 12-7-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.24 REPORTS AND INSPECTIONS.
   A well abandonment report must be submitted by the well owner to the
Department of Natural Resources on forms provided by that agency (available at
the office of the Village Clerk). The report shall be submitted immediately
upon completion of the filling of the well. The filling must be observed by a
representative of the village.
(1999 Code, § 50.19) (Ord. 129, passed 12-7-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WELLHEAD PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Purpose and authority
   
51.03   Applicability
   
51.04   Definitions
   
51.05   Wellhead protection area map
Groundwater Protection Overlay Zone B District
   
51.20   Intent
   
51.21   Permitted uses
   
51.22   Separation distances
   
51.23   Requirements for existing facilities
   
51.24   Exemptions and waivers
   
51.25   Enforcement
Defined Street Areas
   
51.40   Zone B #1
   
51.41   Zone B #2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited, and referred to as the “wellhead
protection” chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)    The residents of the village depend exclusively on groundwater for a
safe drinking water supply. Certain land use practices and activities can
seriously threaten or degrade groundwater quality. The purpose of this chapter
is to institute land use regulations and restrictions to protect the village
municipal water supply and well fields, and to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents of the village.
   (B)   These regulations are established pursuant to the authority granted by
the Wis. Stat. § 62.23(7)(c), and pursuant to the requirements of Wis. Admin.
Code 811.16(5) to adopt ordinances to protect groundwater.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.03 APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations specified in this chapter shall apply within the village
boundary limits. A copy of wellhead protection area map is set forth in §
51.05 of this chapter. The village does not have any Zone A wellhead protection
areas as the cone of depression is five feet around each well. Zone B applies
the five- year time of travel to reach a well.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING FACILITIES. Current facilities, practices, and activities which may
cause or threaten to cause environmental pollution within that portion of the
village’s wellhead protection area that lies within the corporate limits of the
village. EXISTING FACILITIES include but are not limited to the type listed in
the Department of Natural Resources’ Form 3300-215, Public Water Supply
Potential Contaminant Use Inventory Form, which is incorporated herein as if
fully set forth.
   GROUNDWATER DIVIDE. A ridge in the water table or the potentiometric surface
from which groundwater flows away at right angles in both directions. A
GROUNDWATER DIVIDE is represented by the line of highest hydraulic head in the
water table or potentiometric surface.
   GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT. The area described within the
village’s wellhead protection plan. A copy of the village’s wellhead protection
plan can be obtained from the Village Clerk.
   RECHARGE AREA. The land area which contributes water to a well by
infiltration of water into the subsurface and movement with groundwater toward
the well.
   TIME OF TRAVEL. The determined or estimated time required for a contaminant
to move in the saturated zone from a specific point to a well.
   WELL FIELD. A piece of land used primarily for the purpose of supplying a
location for construction of wells to supply a municipal water system.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.05 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA MAP.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
GROUNDWATER PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE B
§ 51.20 INTENT.
   The area to be protected as a district is that portion of the village well
fields’ recharge areas extending to the groundwater divide contained within the
village boundary limits and shown on the map set forth in §
51.05 of this chapter. (As identified with the blue lines outlining the
wellhead protection area; except the light orange colored areas lay outside the
village limits. The wellhead protection areas are identified as Zones 1 and 2
and are further defined by street areas and may be found in §§
51.40 and
51.41 of this chapter.) The village area lands are subject to land use and
development restrictions because of their close-proximity to the well fields
and the corresponding high threat of contamination.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.21 PERMITTED USES.
   Subject to the exemptions listed in §
51.24 of this subchapter, the following are the only permitted uses within the
district (uses not listed are to be considered non-permitted uses):
   (A)   Parks, provided there is no on-site waste disposal or fuel storage
tank facilities associated with this use;
   (B)   Playgrounds;
   (C)   Wildlife areas;
   (D)   Non-motorized trails, such as biking, skiing, nature, and fitness
trails;
   (E)   Municipally sewered residential development, free of flammable and
combustible liquid underground storage tanks;
   (F)   Agricultural uses in accordance with the County Soil Conservation
Department’s Best Management Practices guidelines; and
   (G)   Municipally sewered business developments, except for the following
uses:
      (1)   Aboveground storage tanks over 600 gallons;
      (2)   Asbestos product sales;
      (3)   Automotive service and repair garages, and body shops;
      (4)   Blue printing and photocopying services;
      (5)   Equipment repair services;
      (6)   Laundromats and diaper services;
      (7)   Dry cleaning;
      (8)   Gas stations;
      (9)   Holding ponds or lagoons;
      (10)   Infiltration ponds;
      (11)   Nurseries, lawn, and garden supply stores;
      (12)   Small engine repair services;
      (13)   Underground storage tanks;
      (14)   Wells, private, production, injection, or other; and
      (15)   Any other use determined by the Zoning Administrator to be similar
in nature to the above listed items.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.22 SEPARATION DISTANCES.
   The following separation distances as specified Wis. Admin. Code NR 811.12
(5)(d) shall be maintained and shall not be exempted as listed in §
51.24 of this chapter. The following distances shall apply for Well #1, 2, and
3:
   (A)   Fifty feet between a well and a storm sewer main;
   (B)   Two hundred feet between a well and any sanitary sewer main, sanitary
sewer manhole, lift station, or a single-family residential fuel oil tank. A
lesser separation distance may be allowed for sanitary sewer mains where the
sanitary sewer main is constructed of watermain materials and joints and
pressure tested in place to meet current AWWA C600 specifications. In no case
may the separation distance between a well and a sanitary sewer main be less
than 50 feet;
   (C)   Four hundred feet between a well and a septic tank or soil adsorption
unit receiving less than 8,000 gallons per day, a cemetery, or a storm water
drainage pond;
   (D)   Six hundred feet between a well and any gasoline or fuel oil storage
tank installation that has received written approval from the Wisconsin
Department of Commerce or its designated agent under Wis. Admin. Code Ch. ATCP
93;
   (E)   One thousand feet between a well and land application of municipal,
commercial, or industrial waste; the boundaries of a land spreading facility
for spreading of petroleum-contaminated soil regulated under Wis. Admin. Code
Ch. NR 718 while that facility is in operation; industrial, commercial, or
municipal wastewater lagoons or storage structures; manure stacks or storage
structures; and septic tanks or soil absorption units receiving 8,000 gallons
per day or more; or
   (F)   One thousand two hundred feet between a well and any solid waste
storage, transportation, transfer, incineration, air curtain destructor,
processing, wood burning, one time disposal, or small demolition facility;
sanitary landfill; any property with residual groundwater contamination that
exceeds Wis. Admin. Code Ch. ATCP 93 enforcement standards that is shown on the
Department of Natural Resources’ geographic information system registry of
closed remediation sites; coal storage area; salt or deicing material storage
area; gasoline or fuel oil storage tanks that have not received written
approval from commerce or its designated agent under Wis. Admin. Code ATCP 93;
bulk fuel storage facilities and pesticide or fertilizer handling or storage
facilities.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.23 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing facilities shall provide copies of all federal, state, and
local facility operation approvals or certificate and on-going environmental
monitoring results to the village.
   (B)   Existing facilities shall provide additional environmental or safety
structures/monitoring as deemed necessary by the village, which may include but
is not limited to stormwater runoff management and monitoring.
   (C)   Existing facilities shall replace equipment or expand in a manner that
improves the existing environmental and safety technologies already in
existence.
   (D)   Existing facilities shall have the responsibility of devising and
filing with the village a contingency plan satisfactory to the village for the
immediate notification of village officials in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.24 EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.
   (A)   Individuals and/or facilities may request the village in writing, to
permit additional land uses in the district.
   (B)   All requests shall be in writing, whether on or in substantial
compliance with forms to be provided by the village and may require either or
both: a new well head protection plan prepared by a DNR approved engineering
firm, or environmental assessment report prepared by a licensed environmental
engineer. Said report shall be forwarded to the village and/or designee(s) for
recommendation and final decision by the Village Board.
   (C)   The individual/facility shall reimburse the village for all consultant
fees associated with this review at the invoiced amount plus administrative
costs.
   (D)   Any exemptions granted shall be conditional and may include required
environmental and safety monitoring consistent with local, state, and federal
requirements, and/or bonds and/or securities satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.25 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In the event that an individual and/or facility causes the release of
any contaminants which endanger the District, the individual and/or facility
causing said release shall immediately stop the release and clean up the
release to the satisfaction of the village.
   (B)   The individual/facility shall be responsible for all costs of cleanup,
including all of the following:
      (1)   Village consultant fees at the invoice amount plus administrative
costs for oversight, review, and documentation;
      (2)   The cost of village employees’ time associated in any way with
cleanup based on the hourly rate paid to the employee multiplied by a factor
determined by the village representing the village’s cost for expenses,
benefits, insurance, sick leave, holidays, overtime, vacation, and similar
benefits;
      (3)   The cost of village equipment employed; and
      (4)   The cost of mileage reimbursed to village employees attributed to
the cleanup.
   (C)   Following any such discharge, the village may require additional test
monitoring and/or bonds/securities.
   (D)   Enforcement shall be provided pursuant to this code.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
DEFINED STREET AREAS
§ 51.40 ZONE B #1.
   Beginning at the village line on County Road CC, south along County Road CC,
crossing Highway 35 onto Oakwood Street to Second Street. East on Second Street
to 1200 Second Street then south to First Street. Follows First Street to
Washington Street, north on Washington Street one block to Second Street, east
on Second Street to Cedar Street north to Fifth Street. West on Fifth Street to
Washington then north to village property line, then southwesterly along
village property line to County Road CC and point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
§ 51.41 ZONE B #2.
   Beginning at the village property line on Cedar Street, south on Cedar
Street to Sixth Street, east on Sixth Street to Pine Street, south to Fifth
Street, east to Prairie Street. North on Prairie Street to Sixth Street. East
on Sixth Street one block to County N (Dunn Street). North on County N (Dunn
Street) one- half block, then east approximately one-half block then north to
north village property line; then westerly along village property line to Cedar
Street and point of beginning.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2019)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER
Section
   
52.01   Prohibited wastes
   
52.02   Legal action
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 PROHIBITED WASTES.
   No waste introduced into the village publicly-owned treatment works shall
interfere with the operation or performance of the works. Specifically, the
following wastes shall not be introduced into said publicly-owned treatment
works:
   (A)   Wastes which create a fire or explosion hazard in the publicly-owned
treatment works;
   (B)   Wastes which will cause corrosive structural damage to treatment
works, but in no case, wastes with a pH lower than 5.0, unless the works is
designated to accommodate such wastes;
   (C)   Solid or viscous wastes in amounts which would cause obstruction to
the flow in sewers, or other interference with the proper operation of the
publicly-owned treatment works;
   (D)   Wastes at a flow rate and/or pollutant discharge rate which is
excessive over relatively short time periods so that there is a treatment
process upset and subsequent loss of treatment efficiency; and
   (E)   New wastes or increased volumes or quantities of wastes from major
contributing industries in such volumes or quantities as to overload the
treatment works or cause a loss of treatment efficiency.
(Ord. 120, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
village’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements, or any order of the
village, the Village Attorney may commence an action for appropriate legal and/
or equitable relief in the Circuit Court of this county.
(Ord. 120, passed 12-3-1979)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any user who is found to have violated or willfully or negligently failed to
comply with any provision of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $100
nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall
occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition
to the penalties provided herein, the village may recover reasonable attorneys’
fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other expenses of litigation by
appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated this chapter
or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
(Ord. 120, passed 12-3-1979)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLES CONDUCT
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State traffic laws adopted by reference
   
70.02   State speed limits adopted
   
70.03   Official traffic signs and signals
   
70.04   References to statutes
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.20   Enforcement according to statutes
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   State traffic forfeiture laws adopted. Except as otherwise
specifically provided in this Traffic Code, all provisions of Wis. Stat. Ch.
340 to 348 describing and defining regulations with respect to vehicles and
traffic for which the penalty is a forfeiture only, including penalties to be
imposed and procedure for prosecution, are hereby adopted and by reference made
a part of this Traffic Code as if fully set forth herein. Any act required to
be performed or prohibited by any statute incorporated herein by reference is
required or prohibited by this Traffic Code.
   (B)   Statutes adopted by reference. Sections of Wis. Stat. Ch. 340 to 348
adopted by reference shall include but not be limited to the following:
Wisconsin Statutes Section(s) Topic
Wisconsin Statutes Section(s)                               Topic
Wis. Stat. § 340.01                                        Words and phrases defined
                                                            An unregistered automobile or any other vehicle having a gross vehicle
Wis. Stat. § 341.04(3)                                     weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less, as determined by the manufacturer
                                                            of the vehicle
Wis. Stat. § 341.08(6)                                     Application for vehicle registration
Wis. Stat. § 341.11(4)                                     Display of registration certificates
Wis. Stat. § 341.15                                        Display of registration plates
Wis. Stat. § 341.16(4)                                     Issuance of duplicate plates
Wis. Stat. § 341.51(5)                                     Vehicle dealer, distributor, or manufacturer registration
Wis. Stat. § 341.55                                        Penalty for misuse of plates
Wis. Stat. § 341.57(3)                                     Registration of finance companies and banks
Wis. Stat. § 341.61                                        Lends, displays, or alters registration plate
Wis. Stat. § 341.62                                        False evidence of registration
Wis. Stat. § 341.63                                        When registration is to be suspended
Wis. Stat. § 342.05(4)                                     Certificate of title required
Wis. Stat. § 342.06(3)                                     Application for taxicab title
Wis. Stat. § 342.15(5), (6), and (7)                       Transfer of interest in vehicle
Wis. Stat. § 342.16(3)                                     Dealers records
Wis. Stat. § 342.23                                        Secured party’s and owner’s duties
Wis. Stat. §§ 342.30, 342.31, and 342.34                  Anti-theft and anti-fraud provisions
Wis. Stat. § 342.33                                        Sale of taxicab
Wis. Stat. § 343.01                                        Words or phrases defined
Wis. Stat. § 343.10(6)                                     Violation of occupational operator’s license restrictions
Wis. Stat. § 343.12(3)                                     Operating school bus without school operator’s license
Wis. Stat. § 343.19(2)                                     False statement in application for duplicate operator’s license
Wis. Stat. § 343.22(2)                                     Failure to notify DMV of change of name or address
Wis. Stat. § 343.305                                       Test for intoxication; implied consent
Wis. Stat. § 343.35                                        Surrender of licenses upon cancellation, revocation, or suspension
Wis. Stat. §§ 343.45 to 343.46                            Unlawful practices relative to licenses
Wis. Stat. §§ 343.60 to 343.72                            Licensing of driver schools and instructors
Wis. Stat. § 343.73                                        Penalty
Wis. Stat. § 344.01                                        Words and phrases defined
Wis. Stat. §§ 344.45 et seq.                              Penalties for violation of chapter
Wis. Stat. § 344.51                                        Financial responsibility for domestic rented vehicles
Wis. Stat. § 345.01                                        Words and phrases defined
Wis. Stat. § 345.17                                        False statement to DMV
Wis. Stat. §§ 345.20 to 345.53                            General provisions in traffic forfeiture actions
Wis. Stat. § 345.55                                        Traffic officers not to profit from arrests
Wis. Stat. § 346.01                                        Words and phrases defined
Wis. Stat. § 346.02                                        Applicability of chapter
Wis. Stat. § 346.03                                        Applicability of rules of the road to authorized emergency vehicles
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.04(1) and (2), and 346.06 to 346.16     Driving, meeting, overtaking, and passing
Wis. Stat. § 346.17                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.04 to 346.16
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.18 to 346.21                            Right-of-way
Wis. Stat. § 346.22                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.18 to 346.21
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.23 to 346.29                            Drivers and pedestrians
Wis. Stat. § 346.30                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.23 to 346.29
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.31 to 346.35                            Turning and stopping and required signals
Wis. Stat. § 346.36                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.31 to 346.35
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.37 to 346.42                            Traffic signs, signals, and markings
Wis. Stat. § 346.43                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.37 to 346.42
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.44 to 346.48                            Required stops
Wis. Stat. § 346.49                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.44 to 346.48
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.50 to 346.55                            Restrictions on stopping and parking
Wis. Stat. § 346.56                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.50 to 346.55
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.57(2), (3), and (4)(a) to (c)           Speed restrictions; first offense in a year
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.57(4)(d), (5), and (6) to 346.595       Speed restrictions
Wis. Stat. § 346.60                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.57 to 346.59
                                                            Imprudent speed, too fast for conditions, speeding in school zone, school
Wis. Stat. § 346.60(3)                                     crossing, or safety zone; all violations (formerly only first violations
                                                            were forfeiture)
Wis. Stat. § 346.61                                        Applicability of sections relating to reckless and drunken driving
Wis. Stat. § 346.62(1) and (3)                             Reckless driving; first offense in four years
Wis. Stat. § 346.63(1), (3), and (4)                       Operating under influence of intoxicant; first offense in five years
Wis. Stat. § 346.64                                        Employment of drunk operators; first offense in a year
Wis. Stat. § 346.65(1) and (2)                             Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.62 to 346.64
Wis. Stat. § 346.66                                        Applicability of sections relating to accident and accident reporting
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.68 and 346.69                           Duty upon striking unattended vehicle, upon striking property on or
                                                            adjacent to highway; first offense within a year
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.70(1), (2), or (3), 346.71, 346.72, and Duty to report accident, and the like
346.73
Wis. Stat. § 346.70(4)                                     Police and traffic agencies to report
Wis. Stat. § 346.70(5)                                     Falsifying reports; first offense within a year
Wis. Stat. § 346.74(1)                                     Garage records of accident damage repairs
Wis. Stat. § 346.74(2)                                     Failure to report accident; coroner’s accident reports; improper use of
                                                            accident report
Wis. Stat. § 346.74(3)                                     Failure to do duty upon striking unattended vehicle or property on or
                                                            adjacent to highway
Wis. Stat. § 346.74(4)                                     Falsified accident report
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.77 to 346.804 and 347.489               Bicycles and play vehicles
Wis. Stat. § 346.82                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.77 to 346.81
Wis. Stat. §§ 346.87 to 346.94                            Miscellaneous rules
Wis. Stat. § 346.935                                       Drinking in motor vehicles on highway
Wis. Stat. § 346.95                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 346.87 to 346.94
Wis. Stat. §§ 347.01 to 347.05                            General provisions
Wis. Stat. §§ 347.06 to 347.29                            Lighting equipment
Wis. Stat. § 347.30                                        Penalty for violating lighting equipment requirements
Wis. Stat. §§ 347.35 to 347.49                            Other equipment
Wis. Stat. § 347.50                                        Penalty for violating Wis. Stat. §§ 347.35 to 347.49
Wis. Stat. §§ 348.01 to 348.02                            Size, weight, and load; general provisions
Wis. Stat. §§ 348.05 to 348.10                            Size and load
Wis. Stat. § 348.11                                        Penalty for violating size and load limitations
Wis. Stat. §§ 348.15 to 348.20                            Weight
Wis. Stat. § 348.21                                        Penalty for violating weight limitations
Wis. Stat. §§ 348.25 to 348.27                            Permits
Wis. Stat. § 348.28                                        Penalty; permits to be carried
 
   (C)   Other laws adopted. There are also hereby adopted by reference the
following sections of the state statutes, but the prosecution of such offenses
under this chapter shall be as provided in Wis. Stat. Ch. 340 to 348 and the
penalty for violating them shall be limited to a forfeiture as provided in §
70.99: Wis. Stat. § 941.01(1) (negligent operation of vehicle on highway).
(1999 Code, § 70.01) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972; Ord. 105-A, passed 10-7-1974)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 STATE SPEED LIMITS ADOPTED.
   The Village Board hereby determines the provisions of Wis. Stat. §§ 346.57,
346.58, and 346.59, relating to the maximum and minimum speed of vehicles, are
hereby adopted as part of this section as if fully set forth herein.
(1999 Code, § 70.02) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   Police Chief authorized to request procurement of traffic signs and
signals. The Police Chief is hereby authorized and directed to procure, erect,
and maintain appropriate standard signs, signals, and markings conforming to
the rules of the State Highway Division giving such notice of the provisions of
this Traffic Code as required by state law. Signs shall be erected in such
locations and manner as the Police Chief shall determine will best affect the
purposes of this Traffic Code and give adequate warning to users of the street
or highway.
   (B)   Removal of unofficial signs and signals. The Police Chief shall have
the authority granted by Wis. Stat. § 349.09 and is hereby directed to order
the removal of a sign, signal, marking, or device placed, maintained, or
displayed in violation of this Traffic Code or Wis. Stat. § 346.41. Any charge
imposed on a premises for removal of such illegal sign, signal, or device shall
be reported to the Village Board at its next regular meeting for review and
certification.
(1999 Code, § 70.03) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 70.04 REFERENCES TO STATUTES.
   References to specific statutory sections wherever used in this Traffic Code
shall mean the most current edition of the state statutes.
(1999 Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.20 ENFORCEMENT ACCORDING TO STATUTES.
   This Traffic Code shall be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Wis. Stat. §§ 66.0114, 345.20 to 345.53, and Ch. 799.
(1999 Code, § 70.15) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. The penalty for violation of any provision of §§
70.01 through
70.04 of this chapter shall be forfeiture as hereinafter provided for in Wis.
Stat. §§ 345.20 through 345.53.
   (B)   Uniform offenses. Forfeitures for violation of any provisions of Wis.
Stat. Ch. 340 to 348 adopted by reference in §
70.01(A) and (B) shall conform to forfeitures for violations of the comparable
state offense, including any variations or increases for a second offense.
   (C)   Special local regulations. Whoever violates any provision of §§
70.01(C),
70.02, or
70.03 shall be punished as provided §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 70.99) (Ord. 105, passed 12-4-1972)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
71.01   General parking regulations
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
71.15   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places
   
71.16   Stopping, standing, or parking outside business or residence district
   
71.17   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
   
71.18   Manner of parking in certain area
   
71.19   Seasonal parking in specified places
   
71.20   Parking of trailers
Snow Emergencies
   
71.30   Announcement of snow emergency
   
71.31   Termination of emergency
   
71.32   Snow emergency routes
Violations
   
71.45   Officers authorized to remove vehicles
   
71.46   Duty of lessor of vehicle on notice of violation of this chapter
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Mobile homes; monthly parking fee, see §
150.02
   Parking of recreational vehicle units; permit requirements, §
150.07
   Parking at Sportsman’s Landing, see §§
93.40 through
93.42
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 71.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way roadway shall be so stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels parallel to and within 12 inches of the right-hand curb or as close as
practicable to the right edge of the right-hand shoulder.
   (B)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way roadway shall be so
stopped or parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway, in the direction
of authorized traffic movement, with its right-hand wheels within 12 inches of
the right-hand curb or as close as practicable to the right edge of the right-
hand shoulder, or with its left-hand wheels within 12 inches of the left-hand
curb or as close as practicable to the left edge of the left-hand shoulder.
   (C)   No angle parking shall be permitted except as may be otherwise
established by the village.
   (D)   No person shall park in violation of signs placed by and under the
jurisdiction of the state’s Department of Transportation which prohibit, limit,
or restrict the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway.
(1999 Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 71.15 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or an official
traffic-control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, upon a highway, or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
         (j)   On any controlled-access highway;
         (k)   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers; or
         (l)   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing signal, stop
sign, yield sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly sign-posted); or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of a railroad crossing; or
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(1999 Code, § 71.10) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING OUTSIDE BUSINESS OR RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park,
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave the vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of the stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon the highway.
   (B)   The village, with respect to highways under its jurisdiction or for
the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs prohibiting or
restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on any highway where
in its opinion stopping, standing, or parking is dangerous to those using the
highway, or where stopping, standing, or parking vehicles would unduly
interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon. Any regulations adopted by
the village regarding the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles upon any
specific street, streets, or highways become effective at the time of the
erection of appropriate signs indicating the regulations.
   (C)   This section and §
71.15 shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the vehicle in such position.
(1999 Code, § 71.11) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities, as defined
by state law, or to a disabled veteran pursuant to state law, in any parking
place, including any private or public off-street parking facility,
specifically reserved by the posting of an official sign for motor vehicles
bearing such registration plates. Any motor vehicle bearing a person with
disabilities license plate or a person with disabilities parking decal or
device containing the international symbol of access issued to persons with
disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory, or foreign
country shall be recognized by state and local authorities as a valid license
plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of this
village.
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating the provisions of this section
shall be fined as set forth in §
71.99 in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage
of any motor vehicle authorized under this section.
(1999 Code, § 71.12) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 MANNER OF PARKING IN CERTAIN AREA.
   Parking of motor vehicles on Second Street between Lake and Main Streets
shall be in the following described manner.
   (A)   Parking space shall be clearly marked on curbing. No vehicles shall be
parked where such markings do not appear.
   (B)   All vehicles shall be parked according to angle of and space of curb
markings.
   (C)   Right-hand front wheel or bumper should be in contact with curb line.
(1999 Code, § 71.13) (Ord. 22, passed 6-2-1930) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 SEASONAL PARKING IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This regulation is to assist in the snow removal from the business
area on Second Street and is not part of, nor shall conflict with snow
emergency parking regulations.
      (2)   To ensure effective snow removal on Second Street from November 1
to April 1, this shall apply between Pine Street and Prairie Street (blocks
numbered 300, 400, and 500).
   (B)   Restricted parking. Parking is restricted to odd/even starting dates:
      (1)   On odd calendar dates, from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. the following
day, park on the side
of the street with odd numbered addresses. At 7:00 a.m., the vehicle shall be
moved to the other side of the street.
      (2)   On even calendar dates, from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., the following
day, park on the side of the street with even numbered addresses. At 7:00 a.m.,
the vehicle shall be moved to the other side of the street.
(Ord. passed 10-10-2011) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 PARKING OF TRAILERS.
   (A)   Parking of trailers over 48 hours is prohibited on any village street,
alley or other public place, except as authorized by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   A TRAILER is defined as a vehicle without motive power designed for
carrying property or passengers wholly on its own structure, and for being
drawn by a motor vehicle, but does not include mobile home nor boat/snowmobile/
lawn tractor trailer. The fact that any such vehicle or structure is rendered
immobile by removal of its wheels, the erection of a foundation thereunder, or
any similar alteration, shall not operate to exclude it from this definition.
   (C)   Restriction on parking of trailers does not apply when the trailer is
being actively loaded or unloaded.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 71.30 ANNOUNCEMENT OF SNOW EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President finds that falling snow, sleet, or freezing
rain will create a condition which makes it necessary that the parking of motor
vehicles on snow emergency routes be prohibited, or whenever he or she finds on
the basis of a firm forecast of snow, sleet, or freezing rain that the weather
conditions so forecasted may create a condition making it necessary that such
parking be prohibited, he or she is authorized to announce such prohibition, to
become effective at a time specified by him or her. After the effective time of
such prohibition, no person shall park any vehicle or permit any vehicle to
remain parked on a snow emergency route. However, if a fall of snow, sleet, or
freezing rain occurs after 11:00 p.m. and prior to 6:00 a.m., and the Village
President has not announced prior to 11:00 p.m. that parking on snow emergency
routes is to be prohibited after a specified time, a vehicle parked on a snow
emergency route may remain so parked until 7:00 a.m. following such fall. The
prohibition of parking announced by the Village President under the authority
of this section shall remain in effect until he or she announces the
termination of the snow emergency, in part or in whole, after which the
prohibition of parking authorized by this section shall no longer be in effect.
(1999 Code, § 72.25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Village President shall find that some or all of the conditions
which gave rise to the snow emergency prohibition no longer exist, he or she is
authorized to declare the termination of the emergency, in part or in whole,
effective immediately on announcement. If such announcement is made other than
between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., it shall be repeated between those hours.
(1999 Code, § 72.26)
§ 71.32 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   The term SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE shall mean any route designated by the Village
President. On such street or highway designated as a snow emergency route,
special signs shall be posted to this effect.
(1999 Code, § 72.27)
VIOLATIONS
§ 71.45 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle in violation of any of the
provisions of §
71.16 of this chapter or any other applicable section of this Traffic Code or
ordinance of the village, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle, or
require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to move the same,
to a position off the roadway.
   (B)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to a
place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing upon any
highway, bridge, causeway, or in a tunnel, or in a position or under
circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
   (C)   Any police officer is authorized to remove or cause to be removed to
the nearest garage or other place of safety any vehicle found upon a highway
when:
      (1)   Report has been made that the vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
      (2)   The person or persons in charge of the vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      (3)   When the person driving or in control of the vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay.
(1999 Code, § 72.40)
§ 71.46 DUTY OF LESSOR OF VEHICLE ON NOTICE OF VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this chapter involving such vehicle, shall, upon request, provide such police
officers as have authority of the offense, and the court having jurisdiction
thereof, with a written statement of the name and address of the lessee at the
time of such offense and the identifying number upon the registration plates
and registration sticker or stickers of such vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 72.41)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
71.17 shall pay any costs or charges connected with the removal or storage of
the motor vehicle.
   (C)   There shall be a minimum penalty fee for parking violations during
snow emergencies (§
71.30) of $100 per occurrence.
(1999 Code, § 72.99) (Res. 2023-1211, passed 12-11-2023)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES, SNOWMOBILES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
72.01   Operation of bicycles on sidewalks prohibited
Snowmobiles
   
72.15   State snowmobile laws adopted
   
72.16   Snowmobile routes and trails designated
   
72.17   Speed limit
   
72.18   Hours of operation
   
72.19   Unattended snowmobiles
   
72.20   Operation on sidewalks and malls prohibited
   
72.21   Snowmobile renters; license required; regulations
   
72.22   Violations; enforcement of provisions
Golf Carts
   
72.35   Purpose
   
72.36   Definition
   
72.37   Standard equipment regulations
   
72.38   Proof of liability insurance
   
72.39   Operation regulations
   
72.40   Street access
   
72.41   Permits
All-Terrain Vehicle Routes
   
72.55   Title and purpose
   
72.56   Authority
   
72.57   Designation of all-terrain vehicle routes
   
72.58   Conditions
   
72.59   Enforcement
Commercial Golf Carts
   
72.65   Purpose
   
72.66   Definitions
   
72.67   Standard equipment regulations
   
72.68   Proof of liability insurance
   
72.69   Operation regulations
   
72.70   Street access
   
72.71   Certificate
   
72.72   Indemnity for benefit of village
 
   
72.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 72.01 OPERATION OF BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle upon the sidewalk and pedestrian ways in
the village at any time, day or night, but shall use the roadway as set forth
in Wis. Stat. § 346.80. Any bicycle going to and from the sidewalk to the
highway shall be pushed and not operated by the operator thereof.
(1999 Code, § 72.01) (Ord. 78, passed 9-18-1963) Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of statutes regarding bicycles, see §
70.01
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.15 STATE SNOWMOBILE LAWS ADOPTED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subchapter, the
statutory provisions describing and defining regulations with respect to
snowmobiles in the following enumerated sections of the state statutes are
hereby adopted by reference and made part of this subchapter as if fully set
forth herein. Acts required to be performed or prohibited by such statutes are
required or prohibited by this subchapter.
Wisconsin Statutes Section(s) Topic
Wisconsin Statutes Section(s) Topic
Wis. Stat. § 346.02(10)      Applicability of rules of road to snowmobiles
Wis. Stat. § 350.01          Definitions
Wis. Stat. § 350.02          Operation of snowmobiles on or in the vicinity of
                              a highway
Wis. Stat. § 350.03          Right-of-way
Wis. Stat. § 350.04          Snowmobiles races, derbies, and routes
Wis. Stat. § 350.045         Public utility exemptions
Wis. Stat. § 350.05          Operation by youthful operator restricted
Wis. Stat. § 350.055         Safety certification program established
Wis. Stat. § 350.07          Driving animals
Wis. Stat. § 350.08          Owner permitting operation
Wis. Stat. § 350.09          Head lamps, tail lamps, and brakes
Wis. Stat. § 350.10          Miscellaneous provisions for snowmobile operation
Wis. Stat. § 350.12          Registration of snowmobiles
Wis. Stat. § 350.13          Uniform trail signs and standards
Wis. Stat. § 350.15          Accidents and accident reports
Wis. Stat. § 350.17          Enforcement
Wis. Stat. § 350.19          Liability of landowners
 
   (B)   The adoption of Wis. Stat. § 346.02(10) by reference in division (A)
is intended to include the rules of the road therein enumerated which are as
follows: Wis. Stat. §§ 346.04, 346.06, 346.11, 346.14(1m), 346.18 to 346.21,
346.215(3), 346.26, 346.27, 346.33, 346.35, 346.37, 346.39, 346.40, 346.44,
346.46 to 346.48, 346.50(1)(b), 346.51 to 346.55, 346.87 to 346.91, 346.92(1),
and 346.94(1) and (9).
(1999 Code, § 72.15) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 SNOWMOBILE ROUTES AND TRAILS DESIGNATED.
   Except as provided in Wis. Stat. §§ 350.02 and 350.045, or for snowmobile
events authorized in accordance with Wis. Stat. § 350.04, no person shall
operate a snowmobile upon any public right-of-way or areas in the village
except upon the following designated snowmobile routes and trails:
   (A)   Routes. All of the public streets and alleys within the village are
designated snowmobile routes with the exception of the following streets and
highways: Third Street (Highway 35); County Road CC; and County Road N.
   (B)   Trails.
      (1)   Operation of snowmobiles on marked trails are authorized in the
following public areas: Roadway to the wastewater treatment plant and in that
area within the village that lies south of the south edge of the Burlington
Railroad right-of-way.
      (2)   The Police Chief may authorize village employees to procure, erect,
and maintain appropriate snowmobile route, trail, and limit signs and markers
as approved by the State Department of Natural Resources under Wis. Stat. §
350.13.
      (3)   No person shall fail to obey any route or trail sign, marker, or
limit erected in accordance with this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 72.16) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973; Ord. 108-B, passed 6-7-1994)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.17 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any public highway, street, alley,
or trail within the village at a speed in excess of 25 mph.
(1999 Code, § 72.17) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973; Ord. 108-B, passed 6-7-1994)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile within the village between the hours of
10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except upon a public highway as authorized by the
state statutes and this subchapter or for the purpose of gaining access to or
leaving such highway or alley.
(1999 Code, § 72.18) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.19 UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES.
   No person shall leave or allow a snowmobile to remain unattended on any
public highway or public property while the motor is running or with the
starting key in the ignition.
(1999 Code, § 72.19) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.20 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS AND MALLS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any sidewalk, pedestrian way, or
mall within the village except as specifically authorized by §
72.16 or for the purpose of crossing to obtain immediate access to the
authorized area of operation.
(1999 Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.21 SNOWMOBILE RENTERS; LICENSE REQUIRED; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of renting or
leasing snowmobiles to the public or of renting or leasing use of a snowmobile
track or other private property to the public for the operation of snowmobiles
thereon in the village unless he or she has first obtained a license therefor
as provided in this section.
   (B)   Application. Application for snowmobile renter’s license shall be
filed with the Village Clerk and shall include the name of the owner of the
premises on which such business will be conducted, the proposed period and
hours of operation, the name of the person, firm, or corporation which will
conduct such business, the state registration number of such commercial owner,
if any, and the registration numbers of any snowmobiles to be leased by such
business, and such other information as the Village Board shall require to
consider such application. The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $15
to cover the cost of investigation and issuance of the license.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued unless approved by the governing
body after public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be given as a Class 1
notice under Wis. Stat. Ch. 985. The Village Board shall approve issuance of
the license only if it determines that the public health, safety, and welfare
will not be adversely affected thereby and that the following requirements are
met.
      (1)   The applicant must have on file with the Village Clerk proof of
liability insurance in force covering the premises to be licensed and the
operation of any snowmobile thereon or to be rented or offered for use to the
public by the business with limits of $50,000/$300,000/$10,000.
      (2)   If snowmobiles are to be used on the licensed premises, such use
must be restricted to areas located at least 150 feet from any dwellings not
owned or occupied by the applicant.
      (3)   Snowmobiles shall be operated on the premises only between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m.
      (4)   The licensing period shall be for one year, from September 1 to
August 31.
      (5)   The Clerk shall issue a renewal license to any person, firm, or
corporation holding a valid license under this section upon payment of the
annual license fee; provided, however, that any such applicant who has been
convicted within the preceding 12 months of a violation of this subchapter or
any state statutes regulating or restricting the use of snowmobiles or
snowmobile renters shall not be entitled to a license renewal until approved by
the Village Board after a public hearing as required under this division (C).
(1999 Code, § 72.21) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.22 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Uniform citation for highway violations. The uniform traffic citation
promulgated under Wis. Stat. § 345.11 shall be used for violations of this
subchapter relating to highway use except as provided herein.
   (B)   Other violations. All violations of this subchapter not described in
division (A) above shall be enforced in accordance with Wis. Stat. §§ 66.0111
and 66.0114 and Wis. Stat. Ch. 799. Stipulations of guilt or no contest may be
made as provided in Wis. Stat. § 66.0114(1)(b) in substantially the form
provided in the uniform traffic citation within five days of the date of the
citation for the violation. Bail deposits may also be made under Wis. Stat. §
66.0114.
(1999 Code, § 72.22) (Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish routes and operation of golf
carts within the village limits.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
§ 72.36 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A motorized vehicle with four wheels that is not designed to be
operated at a speed of more than 25 mph. GOLF CART is generally designed to
carry four persons, including the driver.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
§ 72.37 STANDARD EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Each golf cart shall be equipped with the following before operating on any
street within the village:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Headlights;
   (C)   Taillights;
   (D)   Rear view mirror;
   (E)   Slow moving vehicle sign; and
   (F)   Safety flag on a staff holder to put such flag at least eight feet
above the road surface.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
§ 72.38 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   As part of the permit process, the owner of the golf cart must provide a
certificate of insurance listing company, policy term, and minimum limits of
liability of $100,000 per person, $300,000 per accident, and $5,000 medical
before a permit will be issued.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
§ 72.39 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   Each operator of a golf cart shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Each operator of a golf cart must have a valid driver’s license.
   (B)   Operator shall display the village permit sticker(s) prominently on
the left front and left rear fenders.
   (C)   All riders must remain seated when golf cart is in motion.
   (D)   The number of occupants shall comply with seat belt regulations if
said golf cart was originally equipped with seat belts.
   (E)   Golf carts may be operated on village streets between one-half hour
(30 minutes) after sunrise and one-half hour (30 minutes) prior to sunset.
   (F)   Golf carts may not be operated on village streets during inclement
weather, such as rain, snow, fog, or when visibility may be 500 feet or less.
   (G)   No golf cart shall exceed the posted speed limit.
   (H)   Golf carts shall operate in single file on the far right side of the
roadway.
   (I)   No item can be towed by a golf cart.
   (J)    No operator/person shall leave or allow any golf cart owned or
operated by him or her to remain unattended on any public street, highway, or
public property while the motor is running or with starting key left in the
ignition.
   (K)   Each golf cart shall be operated in compliance with
Ch. 73 of this title.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.40 STREET ACCESS.
   Golf carts may be operated on all village streets except on State Highway
35.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
§ 72.41 PERMITS.
   (A)   The permit, notwithstanding the date of purchase, shall be valid
during the calendar year of purchase. Unless previously revoked within the one-
year period, permits may be issued by the Village Clerk to owners upon:
      (1)   Completion of an application form;
      (2)   Effective May 1, 2021, a payment of a permit fee of $50;
      (3)   Proof of a valid driver’s license;
      (4)   Proof of insurance; and
      (5)   Owners may request a permit by mail upon submitting a completed
application form, certificate of insurance, proof of a valid driver’s license,
and a permit fee of $50 per vehicle to the village. Enclose a stamped, self-
addressed envelope.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may grant an exception to this subchapter and
allow any type of golf cart to be used on any village street by community and/
or civic organizations for community events. Said exemption shall be in
writing.
(Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed 5-1-2021)
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE ROUTES
§ 72.55 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The title of this subchapter is the all-terrain vehicle route for the
operation of all-terrain vehicles upon the roadways and alleys in the village.
   (B)   Following due consideration of the recreational value to connect trail
opportunities and weighted against possible dangers, public health, liability
aspects, terrain involved, traffic density, and history of automobile traffic,
this subchapter has been created.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
§ 72.56 AUTHORITY.
   The village has the specific authority to adopt this subchapter under Wis.
Stat. § 23.33(8)(b) and (11).
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
§ 72.57 DESIGNATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE ROUTES.
   All-terrain vehicles may be operated on all village streets except for State
Highway 35.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
§ 72.58 CONDITIONS.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 23.33(8)(d) and Ch. 73 of this title, the following
restrictions are placed on the use of the village roadways and alleys for all-
terrain vehicle and utility terrain vehicle routes designated by this
subchapter.
   (A)   All all-terrain vehicle and utility terrain vehicle operators shall
observe speed limits not to exceed 25 mph on village roadways and ten mph on
alleys. On County Road CC and County Road N (Dunn Street), the speed limit is
as posted.
   (B)   All all-terrain vehicle and utility terrain vehicle operators shall
proceed single file.
   (C)   No person shall operate either an ATV or UTV on any of the designated
routes (village streets or alleys) subject to this subchapter who fails to meet
all of the following conditions:
      (1)   Each operator shall be at least 16 years of age;
      (2)   Each operator shall hold a valid driver’s license;
      (3)   Each operator between the ages of 16 and 18 years of age shall hold
a valid safety certificate as defined at Wis. Stat. § 23.33(5)(d);
      (4)   All operators are responsible for obtaining and confirming valid
insurance is in force for liability, medical, and property damage;
      (5)   All ATV/UTVs shall be registered and properly display registration;
and
      (6)   Operators and passengers under 18 years of age must wear a helmet.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.59 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by any law enforcement officer authorized
to enforce the laws of the state and the village.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2019)
COMMERCIAL GOLF CARTS
§ 72.65 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish operating procedures for
commercial golf cart shuttles within the village limits.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.66 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE. Dealing with commercial golf cart shuttle service within the
village limits.
   COMMERCIAL GOLF CART SHUTTLE. A motorized vehicle with four wheels that is
not designed to be operated at a speed of more than 25 mph engaged in the
business of carrying passengers for hire. Said golf cart is required to have a
minimum wheel base of 95 inches and seat a minimum of six people, including the
driver.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.67 STANDARD EQUIPMENT REGULATIONS.
   Each commercial golf cart shall be equipped with the following before
operating on any street within the village:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Headlights;
   (C)   Taillights;
   (D)   Rear view mirror;
   (E)   Slow moving vehicle sign;
   (F)   Safety flag on a staff holder to put such flag at least eight feet
above the road surface; and
   (G)   Certificate of public convenience and necessity license plate
(sticker).
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.68 PROOF OF LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   As part of the certificate process, the owner of the commercial golf cart
must provide a certificate of insurance listing company, policy term and
minimum limits of liability of $1,000,000 per occurrence/annual aggregate of
$300,000 per accident and $5,000 medical before a certificate is issued.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.69 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   Each operator of a commercial golf cart shall comply with the following:
   (A)   Each operator of a golf cart must have a valid driver’s license;
   (B)   All riders must remain seated when golf cart is in motion;
   (C)   Number of occupants shall comply with seat belt regulations, if said
commercial golf cart was originally equipped with seat belts;
   (D)   Commercial golf carts may be operated on village streets between one-
half hour (30 minutes) after sunrise and 1:00 a.m.;
   (E)   No commercial golf cart shall exceed the posted speed limit;
   (F)   Freedom to operate under all weather conditions;
   (G)   Commercial golf carts shall operate in single file on the far right
side of the roadway;
   (H)   No item can be towed by a commercial golf cart;
   (I)   No operator/person shall leave or allow any commercial golf cart owned
or operated by him or her to remain unattended on any public street, highway or
public property while the motor is running or with starting key left in the
ignition;
   (J)   Certificate allows operator to charge a fee for services. The fare
shall be posted in clear view of all passengers;
   (K)   Refusal of passenger to pay legal fare. It shall be unlawful for any
person to refuse to pay the legal fare of any vehicle licensed under this
subchapter after having hired the same, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to hire any shuttle or non-emergency vehicle with intent to defraud the person
from whom it is hired, of the value of such service; and
   (L)   Each commercial golf cart shall be operated in compliance with
Ch. 73.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.70 STREET ACCESS.
   Commercial golf carts may be operated on all village streets except as
follows:
   (A)   County Road N;
   (B)   County Road CC; and
   (C)   State Highway 35.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.71 CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The certificate, notwithstanding the date of purchase, shall be valid
only from April 1 to November 1 during the calendar year of the purchase.
Unless previously revoked within the one-year period, certificates may be
issued by the Village Clerk to owners upon:
      (1)   Completion of an application form;
      (2)   Payment of the certificate fee of $50;
      (3)   Proof of a valid driver’s license;
      (4)   Proof of insurance;
      (5)   Proof of annual golf cart registration fee; and
      (6)   Proof of a fixed place of business.
   (B)   The company is the holder of a certificate of public convenience and
necessity in order to operate a shuttle or non-emergency service business under
the provisions of this subchapter, whether a person, firm, partnership or
corporation must have a fixed place of business. Each shuttle or non-emergency
company as a condition for holding a certificate of public convenience and
necessity under the provisions of this subchapter shall establish and maintain
a fixed headquarters on private property for the operation of the company’s
business, the headquarters to conform to the requirements of the village zoning
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.72 INDEMNITY FOR BENEFIT OF VILLAGE.
   Any shuttle or non-emergency company operating under this subchapter shall
hold the village harmless against any and all liability, loss, cost, damages or
expense which may accrue to the village by reason of the negligence, default or
misconduct of the company in connection with the rights granted to such company
hereunder. Nothing in this subchapter shall be considered to make the village
liable for damages because of any negligent act or omission or commission by
any shuttle or non-emergency company, its servants, agents, drivers or other
employees, during the operation by the company of their business, either in
respect to injury to persons or with respect of damage to property which may be
sustained.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2016)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of §
72.01 will be fined not more than $20 and/or the bicycle so operated may be
confiscated by the village authorities for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
72.15 through
72.22 shall, upon conviction, forfeit an amount consistent with the current
state bond schedule for traffic violations.
   (C)   Violation of §§
72.35 through
72.41 or the state traffic laws is punishable by any or all of the following:
      (1)   Loss of operator’s permit for a period of one year; and
      (2)   As provided in §
10.99 of this code and/or as provided in the state statutes.
   (D)   Any person violating §§
72.55 through
72.59 shall be subject to Wis. Stat. § 23.33(13)(a) or §
10.99 of this code.
   (E)   Violation of §§
72.65 through
72.72 or the state traffic laws is punishable by any or all of the following:
      (1)   Loss of operator’s permit for a period of one year; and
      (2)   As provided in §
10.99 and/or as provided in the state statutes.
(Ord. 78, passed 9-18-1963; Ord. 108, passed 1-8-1973; Ord. 108-A, passed 9-12-
1977; Ord. passed 3-14- 2016; Ord. passed 3-11-2019; Ord. passed 4-8-2019; Ord.
passed 5-1-2021)
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLES CONDUCT
Section
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Unnecessary noise prohibited
   
73.03   Unnecessary smoke prohibited
   
73.04   Unnecessary acceleration and display of power prohibited
   
73.05   Disorderly conduct with a motor vehicle
   
73.06   Avoidance of traffic-control device prohibited
   
73.07   Disobeying traffic-control device prohibited
   
73.08   Operation in restricted area prohibited
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISORDERLY CONDUCT WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE. The engaging in violent, abusive,
unreasonably loud conduct, or disturbing or endangering the property or the
safety of another’s person or property, or otherwise disorderly conduct, or
unsafe operation of a motor vehicle, including but not limited to, unnecessary,
deliberate, or intentional spinning of wheels, squealing of tires, revving of
engine, blowing the horn, causing the engine to backfire, or causing the
vehicle, while commencing to move or in motion, to raise one or more wheels off
the ground.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010)
§ 73.02 UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unnecessary noise. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle in such a manner which shall make or cause to be made any loud,
disturbing, or unnecessary sounds or noises such as may tend to annoy or
disturb another in or about any public or private area in the village.
   (B)   Mufflers. Every motor vehicle operated upon a public way shall be
equipped with a muffler in good and proper working order and be in constant
operation so as to prevent excessive or unusual noise or annoying exhaust
smoke.
   (C)   Use of devices. No person shall use or place upon any motor vehicle to
be operated upon a public way any muffler cut-out, bypass, or similar device.
No device shall be used on any motor vehicle operated upon the public way to
create unnecessary noise and disturbance.
   (D)   Jake braking. Use of engine compression brakes prohibited. No person
shall use, within the village limits, motor vehicle brakes that are in any way
activated or operated by the compression of the engine of the motor vehicle
(including those known as “Jake brakes”). It shall be an affirmative defense to
prosecution under this section that compression brakes were applied in an
emergency and were necessary for the protection of persons or property.
Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from this division (D).
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03 UNNECESSARY SMOKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in such a
manner which shall make or cause to be made any smoke, gases, or odors which
are disagreeable, foul, or otherwise offensive which may tend to annoy or
disturb another in or about any public or private area in the village.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.04 UNNECESSARY ACCELERATION AND DISPLAY OF POWER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle, including
motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, and bicycles, in such a manner as to cause,
by excessive and unnecessary acceleration, the tires of such vehicle or cycle
to spin or emit loud noises or to unnecessarily throw stones or gravel; nor
shall such driver cause to be made by excessive and unnecessary acceleration
any loud noise as would disturb the peace.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 DISORDERLY CONDUCT WITH A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. No person shall, within the village, by or through
the use of any motor vehicle, including but not limited to, an automobile,
truck, motorcycle, minibike, or snowmobile, cause or provoke disorderly conduct
with a motor vehicle, cause a disturbance or annoy one or more persons, or
disturb or endanger the property or the safety of another’s person or property.
   (B)   No person shall by or through the use of a motor vehicle allow any
person to ride outside or on vehicle in an area not designated as a passenger
compartment.
   (C)   No person by use of a motor vehicle shall endanger the safety of
another person.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.06 AVOIDANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in such a
manner as to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic-control device, sign, or signal.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle to disobey any
official traffic-control sign, device, or signal.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 OPERATION IN RESTRICTED AREA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in such
a manner as to leave the roadway and park, stop, or travel upon or across any
public or private property, parking lot, driveway, sidewalk, or business
service area for any purpose, except the official conduct of business located
on said property without the consent of the owner or lessee of the property.
   (B)   This section shall specifically include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Public park property;
      (2)   Cemetery properties;
      (3)   School district property;
      (4)   Medical facilities;
      (5)   Funeral homes;
      (6)   Service stations;
      (7)   Grocery stores;
      (8)   Restaurants;
      (9)   Financial institutions;
      (10)   Private property; and
      (11)   Other similar-type businesses with service driveways or drive-up
or drive-through facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED PROPERTY AND VEHICLES
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   EXTERIOR LIGHTING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Authority of animal control officer
   
90.03   Animals running at large prohibited; animal waste
   
90.04   Animals as nuisances
   
90.05   Keeping animals
   
90.06   Biting animals
   
90.07   Confinement of dangerous animals; warning
   
90.08   Killing or attacking animals prohibited; exceptions
   
90.09   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.10   Cock fighting and dog fighting prohibited
   
90.11   Disposal of dead animals
   
90.12   Injured animals; animals found dead on public ways
Administration; Enforcement
   
90.25   Interference with enforcement prohibited
   
90.26   Authority to impound animals and enter onto private property
   
90.27   Notice to owners or keepers of impoundment and violation
   
90.28   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.29   Disposition of animals
   
90.30   Issuance of citations to persons in violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All animals, including mammals, reptiles, birds, and fish, unless
the section limits the application to a particular species of animal.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The Village Chief of Police, or police officers
authorized by the Chief of Police to perform his or her duties on his or her
behalf, or other person appointed by the President with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees.
   AT LARGE. Any animal not under restraint as defined herein.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL or VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which shall at any time have
bitten any human being; or whom the owner or keeper should reasonably know to
have dangerous propensities and to pose a threat to the public; or which has
been or is trained to attack persons or animals on command; or which at any
time has killed or seriously injured another domestic animal.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The State Department of Agriculture.
   DOG. All animals, regardless of sex, of the canine species.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture, of the canine anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Department.
   OWNER or KEEPER. A person having a right of property in an animal, who keeps
or harbors such animal, who cares for or who acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by such
person.
   POUND. The county pound or other facility approved by the Chief of Police
for the impoundment of animals.
   PUBLIC ENTRANCE. The entranceway of a residence or other building closest to
the public street or sidewalk or one which would be reasonably perceived by the
public to be the entrance to the dwelling available for public use.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint if it is:
      (1)   Attached to a leash held by a responsible person;
      (2)   Under the effective voice control of a responsible person;
      (3)   Attached to a structure or fixture in such a manner that it is
unable to reach beyond the limits of the owner’s or keeper’s property and is
unable to reach or molest service persons or casual visitors to the owner’s or
keeper’s property using the public entrance or persons placing mail in the
mailbox or delivering newspapers at the request of the owners; or
      (4)   Enclosed in a fenced yard from which it is unable to escape without
assistance from a person.
   WORKING DAY. Any day when the office or public entity referred to was open
for the transaction of business.
(1999 Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   Without limiting those powers and duties prescribed by law and ordinance,
the animal control officer shall:
   (A)   Exercise the power and perform the duties contained in this chapter;
or
   (B)   Impound animals pursuant to provisions of this chapter at the county
animal pound or other facility established by the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such dog or
cat to run at large in the village at any time.
   (B)   The owner or person in actual physical control of any animal shall be
responsible for the immediate removal of any feces deposited by the animal on
any public property, public walks, recreation areas, or private property,
excluding the property of the owner.
(1999 Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 111, passed 5-5-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 ANIMALS AS NUISANCES.
   (A)   The owner or keeper shall not suffer or permit any animal to bark,
howl, cry, or make other distressing or loud or unusual noise or to disturb the
peace or quiet of any place, neighborhood, family, or person in the village.
The disturbing of any neighborhood or persons by any such animal is declared to
be a nuisance, and no person shall suffer or permit any such nuisance and to
exist.
   (B)   In case any animal shall repeatedly disturb the peace or quiet of any
place or neighborhood or become a nuisance as defined in this chapter, the
village may petition the Circuit Court for an order to destroy the animal.
   (C)   The keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl which by frequent or
habitual howling, yelping, barking, crowing, or making of other noises shall
greatly annoy or disturb a neighborhood or any considerable number of persons
within the village is declared a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 90.04) (Ord. passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 90.05 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   Any pen, stable, or place in which animals are housed or kept which is
unreasonably offensive to persons residing in, or passing along any street or
alley near, the vicinity of the same, due to associated debris or odors, or
which constitute a hazard to the health of persons residing nearby, is declared
to be a nuisance.
(1999 Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 BITING ANIMALS.
   No owner or keeper of an animal shall suffer, permit, or fail to prevent an
animal from biting or attacking a person or another animal resulting in injury
to the person or animal attacked; provided, that such an attack on a person who
is or reasonably appears to be in the commission of an act made punishable
under the State Criminal Code is not prohibited if the animal is acting in the
defense of the owner or keeper or his or her family or premises, and the animal
remains on its premises. For purposes of this section, it is not necessary that
the person bitten or attacked be arrested or convicted of a criminal offense.
(1999 Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 CONFINEMENT OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS; WARNING.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor within the village any animal
known to be dangerous or vicious, unless such person shall keep such animal
safely and securely confined so as to protect from injury any child or other
person who may come on the premises in the vicinity where such animal may be
located.
   (B)   Adequate warning by sign, or otherwise, shall be given to all persons
coming on the premises in the vicinity of any such vicious or dangerous animal.
(1999 Code, § 90.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 KILLING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall kill or wound or attempt to kill or wound by the use
of firearms, sling shot, bow and arrow, B-B gun, air rifle, or any other
dangerous weapon any animal within the village limits; provided, that this
section shall not prohibit a person from defending himself, herself, or another
from attack by an animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, kill, or molest song
birds or squirrels in the village limits.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the use of a weapon by a police officer
to destroy animals which are seriously injured to avoid unnecessary suffering,
or in self-defense or defense of others.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty provided in §
10.99, any person who violates this section may have his or her firearms
confiscated.
(1999 Code, § 90.08) (Ord. 26, passed 12-4-1933) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall commit acts of cruelty to animals.
   (B)   The following acts shall be deemed to be examples of cruelty to
animals and are not intended to be a complete list of acts which may constitute
cruelty. Doctors of veterinary medicine, in the performance of their
profession, are not subject to this provision of this section.
      (1)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or killing any animal or causing or knowingly allowing
the same to be done;
      (2)   Cruelly working any old, maimed, injured, sick, or disabled animal
or causing or knowingly allowing the same to be done;
      (3)   Failing to provide any animal in one’s charge or custody, as owner
or keeper, with proper food, drink, shelter, air, sanitation, or medical care;
or
      (4)   Abandoning any animal without making provisions for its care and
feeding.
(1999 Code, § 90.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 COCK FIGHTING AND DOG FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use or keep animals or be in any way connected with the
management of any place kept or used for the purpose of fighting or baiting any
dogs, cocks, or other animals or permit such place to be kept or used on
premises owned or controlled by such persons.
(1999 Code, § 90.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal shall be responsible for the disposal
of such animal’s remains on its death, from whatever cause, and regardless of
the location of the remains of such animals.
   (B)   Animal remains shall be disposed of:
      (1)   By burial beneath at least 18 inches of compacted soil on the
property of the animal’s owner or keeper or any other location with the express
permission of the owner of the property;
      (2)   By or through the county animal pound;
      (3)   By or through a licensed veterinarian; or
      (4)   By action of the Police Department.
   (C)   The animal control officer may issue a written notice to any owner or
keeper who has failed to properly dispose of the remains of an animal as
prescribed herein. Such person shall have 24 hours from receipt of such notice
to properly dispose of such remains. The notice shall be served on the violator
personally or by leaving such notice at his or her usual place of abode with
some person of the family of the age of 13 years or upwards and informing that
person of the contents thereof.
   (D)   The village may dispose of any animal remains without notice to the
owner or keeper when:
      (1)   Such remains are located on a public roadway;
      (2)   The remains bear no village identification tags as required by this
chapter;
      (3)   The remains are located on the property of a person other than the
owner or keeper; or
      (4)   Service of notice on the owner or keeper is refused or not readily
possible within a short time.
   (E)   In any case where a disposal notice is required, in accordance with
division (C) above, on failure of a person served a notice to properly dispose
of such remains within the time allowed, the remains may be disposed of by
employees of the village, and all costs of such removal shall be paid by the
owner or keeper of the dead animal to the village.
   (F)   A minimum charge of $50 for each hour or part of an hour spent by
animal control officers or other village employees in disposing of the remains
shall be levied against the owner or keeper when the village disposes of the
remains. The village may institute legal proceedings to collect any amount
owing by the owner or keeper; provided, that such suit is filed within two
years of the issuance of the notice or disposal of the remains if no notice is
required.
(1999 Code, § 90.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.12 INJURED ANIMALS; ANIMALS FOUND DEAD ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   Any animal discovered injured or dead on a public way of this village
shall be impounded or picked up by an animal control officer.
   (B)   Seriously injured animals that are wearing village identification tags
will be taken to a doctor of veterinary medicine, who shall contact the owner
for treatment instructions and who shall maintain the animal, painlessly, if
possible, until instructions are received. The owner or keeper shall be
responsible for the costs of impoundment and treatment.
   (C)   Seriously injured animals which do not bear village identification
tags shall be impounded and authorized forthwith by a doctor of veterinary
medicine to avoid unnecessary suffering to the animal.
   (D)   Injured animals wearing village identification tags shall be released
to the pound within 48 hours if the owner cannot be contacted and treatment is
completed, or if the animal requires treatment beyond the minimization of
suffering or pain, such treatment to be provided at the owner’s or keeper’s
expense.
   (E)   No animal will be released by a veterinarian from impoundment to the
owner or keeper following treatment of an injury until a release is received
from the village showing payment of impoundment fees.
(1999 Code, § 90.12)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.25 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall in any way interfere with any person who is known to such
person to be or who identifies himself or herself to be and is, in fact, a
village employee or officer enforcing the provisions of this chapter or engaged
in catching or impounding any animal under the authority of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 90.60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.26 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND ANIMALS AND ENTER ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Village employees and officers of the Police Department to take up and
impound in the county animal pound, or other place as designated by the Chief
of Police, any animal found at large or any dog found in the village without
identification, inoculation, or licensing tags contrary to any of the
provisions of this chapter, or statutes of the state.
   (B)   Village employees and officers of the Police Department are authorized
to go on private property in order to enforce this chapter or to take up any
animal which is found at large or to take up any dog found without required
inoculation, licensing, or identification tags; however, such persons may not
enter a private dwelling house for this purpose without a valid warrant or the
consent of the occupant.
(1999 Code, § 90.61)
§ 90.27 NOTICE TO OWNERS OR KEEPERS OF IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION.
   The Police Department shall notify the owners or keepers of animals
impounded pursuant to this chapter, if known to them, of the fact of
impoundment.
(1999 Code, § 90.62)
§ 90.28 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except any
that may have bitten any person, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held until
it may be disposed of pursuant to this section in order to afford opportunity
to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem the same.
   (B)   The impoundment fee shall be paid by the owner or keeper. The fees for
the cost of keeping the dog, plus any additional fee for inoculation, shall be
paid at the county animal pound.
(1999 Code, § 90.63)
§ 90.29 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   Any dog or other animal, except animals bearing owner identification or
inoculation tags, impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, which
has not been redeemed within three working days, shall be humanely destroyed or
otherwise disposed of by the director of the county animal pound. Any dog with
owner identification tags which is impounded pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter and which shall not be redeemed within seven working days shall be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the director of the county
animal pound.
(1999 Code, § 90.64)
§ 90.30 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS TO PERSONS IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   Village police officers and others specifically designated by the
Chief of Police are authorized to issue citations on a reasonable belief that
any person has violated any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Citations shall be issued on forms approved by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Citations shall be issued personally to the violator, left with a
responsible family member of at least 13 years of age at the home of the
violator, or mailed to the residence of the violator.
(1999 Code, § 90.65)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED PROPERTY AND VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Storage of junked or discarded property; abatement
   
91.02   Storage and disposal of junked or unregistered vehicles
Abandoned Vehicles
   
91.15   Vehicle abandonment prohibited
   
91.16   Removal and impoundment
   
91.17   Disposal
   
91.18   Owner responsible for costs of impoundment and disposal
   
91.19   Notice of sale or disposition
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 STORAGE OF JUNKED OR DISCARDED PROPERTY; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall store junked or discarded property including
automobiles, automobile parts, trucks, tractors, refrigerators, furnaces,
washing machines, stoves, machinery or machinery parts, wood, bricks, cement
blocks, or other unsightly debris which substantially depreciates property
values in the neighborhood except in an enclosure which houses such property
from public view, or upon permit issued by the Village Board.
   (B)   The Building Inspector or Chief of Police may require by written order
any premises violating this section to be put in compliance within the time
specified in such order, and if the order is not complied with, may have the
premises put in compliance and the cost thereof assessed as a special tax
against the property. Where there is great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the violation may be summarily
abated as provided under the laws of this village, the county, or the state.
(1999 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
   Abandoned or unattended refrigerators and the like prohibited, see §
130.02
§ 91.02 STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF JUNKED OR UNREGISTERED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No disassembled, dismantled, junked, inoperable, or wrecked vehicle or
parts thereof shall be stored or allowed to remain in the open upon public or
private property, and no unlicensed or unregistered vehicle shall be stored or
allowed to remain in the open upon private property, for more than 60 days,
unless in connection with an existing and operating auto salvage yard, junk
yard, garage, auto sales lot, or auto service station located in a properly
zoned area for such business, except no such vehicle or parts thereof shall be
allowed to remain for an unreasonable period of time on any such premises. To
the extent any such vehicle or parts thereof so remain in an operating salvage
yard, junk yard, garage, auto sales lot, or auto service station for a period
in excess of 60 days, the same shall be presumed to be an unreasonable period
of time. Any such vehicle, or parts thereof, shall be removed, stored, and
disposed of as provided in Wis. Stat. § 342.40(3).
   (B)   No unregistered motor vehicle may be located upon a highway, street,
or roadway for such time and under such circumstances as to cause the motor
vehicle to reasonably appear to have been unregistered for more than 30 days.
Any such unregistered motor vehicle may be immobilized, impounded, and disposed
of in the manner provided in Wis. Stat. § 341.65.
(1999 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 91.15 VEHICLE ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave unattended any motor vehicle, trailer, semi-trailer,
or mobile home on any public street or highway or public or private property,
for such time and under such circumstances as to cause the vehicle to
reasonably appear to have been abandoned. When any such vehicle has been left
unattended on any village street or highway or on any public or private
property within the village without the permission of the owner for more than
48 hours, the vehicle is deemed abandoned and constitutes a public nuisance. A
motor vehicle shall not be considered abandoned when it is out of ordinary
public view.
(1999 Code, § 91.15) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 REMOVAL AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any vehicle in violation of this subchapter shall be impounded until
lawfully claimed or disposed of under §
91.17 of this subchapter, except that if the Chief of Police or a duly
authorized representative determines that the cost of towing and storage
charges for the impoundment would exceed the value of the vehicle, the vehicle
may be junked by the village prior to expiration of the impoundment period upon
determination by the Chief of Police or a duly authorized representative that
the vehicle is not wanted for evidence or other reason. All substantially
complete vehicles in excess of 19 model years-of-age shall be disposed of in
accordance with §
91.17.
(1999 Code, § 91.16) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 91.17 DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The provisions of Wis. Stat. § 342.40, unless otherwise provided
herein, shall apply to the notice and sale of abandoned vehicles.
   (B)   Where there is no lienholder of record, and the owner cannot be
identified or located, the balance of the proceeds, if any, after deducting the
expense of impounding and sale, shall be paid into the village treasury.
(1999 Code, § 91.17) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 91.18 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COSTS OF IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL.
   The owner of any abandoned vehicle, except a stolen vehicle, is responsible
for the abandonment and all costs of impounding and disposing of the vehicle.
Costs not recovered for the sale of the vehicle may be recovered in a civil
action by the village against the owner. Where the identity of the owner is
unknown, or the Chief of Police otherwise so elects, and where the removal of
the vehicle is from private property, the owner of the private property
premises shall be responsible for all costs of impounding and disposing of the
vehicle and otherwise eliminating any nuisance caused by such vehicle.
(1999 Code, § 91.18) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 91.19 NOTICE OF SALE OR DISPOSITION.
   Within five days after the sale or disposal of a vehicle as provided in §
91.17 of this subchapter, the Chief of Police or a duly authorized
representative shall advise the Wisconsin Department of Transportation,
Division of Motor Vehicles, of such sale or disposition on a form supplied by
the Division. A copy of such form shall also be given to the purchaser of the
vehicle. A copy shall also be retained on file in the village.
(1999 Code, § 91.19) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture of not
less than $50, nor more than $500, plus costs. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation.
(1999 Code, § 91.99) (Ord. 131, passed 11-6-1995)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Public nuisances prohibited
   
92.02   Definition
   
92.03   Public nuisances enumerated
   
92.04   Abatement procedure
   
92.05   Cost of abatement
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain, or permit to
exist any public nuisance within the village.
(1999 Code, § 92.01) (Ord. 114, passed 10-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean a thing, act,
occupation, condition, or use of property which shall continue for such length
of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure, or endanger the comfort, health, repose,
or safety of the public;
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property;
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water, or other public way, or the use of public property.
(1999 Code, § 92.02) (Ord. 114, passed 10-6-1975)
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Public nuisances affecting health. The following acts, omissions,
places, conditions, and things are hereby specifically declared to be public
health nuisances, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other
health nuisances coming within the definition provided in §
92.02 of this chapter:
      (1)   All decayed, harmfully adulterated, or unwholesome food or drink
sold or offered for sale to the public;
      (2)   Carcasses of animals, birds, or fowl not intended for human
consumption or food which are not buried or otherwise disposed of in a sanitary
manner within 24 hours after death;
      (3)   Accumulations of decayed animal or vegetable matter, trash,
rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material, scrap metal, or any
material whatsoever in which flies, mosquitoes, disease-carrying insects, rats,
or other vermin may breed;
      (4)   All stagnant water in which mosquitoes, flies, or other insects can
multiply;
      (5)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not fly-tight;
      (6)   All noxious weeds and other rank growth of vegetation;
      (7)   All animals running at large;
      (8)   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash, industrial dust, or other atmospheric pollutants within the village
limits or within one mile therefrom in such quantities as to endanger the
health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or cause substantial
injury to property in the village;
      (9)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal,
or other body of water by sewage, creamery, or industrial wastes or other
substances;
      (10)   Any use of property, substances or things within the village
emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisesome, nauseous, noxious, or
disagreeable odors, gases, effluvia, or stenches extremely repulsive to the
physical senses of ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure, or
inconvenience the health of any appreciable number of persons within the
village;
      (11)   All abandoned wells not securely covered or secured from public
use; or
      (12)   Any use of property which shall cause any nauseous or unwholesome
liquid or substances to flow into or upon any street, gutter, alley, sidewalk,
or public place within the village.
   (B)   Public nuisances offending morals and decency. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby specifically declared to
be public nuisances offending public morals and decency, but such enumeration
shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances offending public morals and
decency coming within the definition provided in §
92.02 of this chapter:
      (1)   All disorderly houses, bawdy houses, houses of ill fame, gambling
houses, and buildings or structures kept or resorted to for the purpose of
prostitution, promiscuous sexual intercourse, or gambling;
      (2)   All gambling devices and slot machines;
      (3)   All places where intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages
are sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled, manufactured, or rectified
without a permit or license as provided for by the ordinances of the village;
      (4)   Any place or premises within the village where village ordinances
or state laws relating to public health, safety, peace, morals, or welfare are
openly, continuously, repeatedly, and intentionally violated; or
      (5)   Any place or premises resorted to for the purpose of drinking
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in violation of the laws of the
state or ordinances of the village.
   (C)   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety. The following acts,
omissions, places, conditions, and things are hereby declared to be public
nuisances affecting peace and safety, but such enumeration shall not be
construed to exclude other nuisances affecting public peace or safety coming
within the provisions of §
92.02 of this chapter:
      (1)   All signs and billboards, awnings, and other similar structures
over or near streets, sidewalks, public grounds, or places frequented by the
public so situated or constructed as to endanger the public safety;
      (2)   All buildings erected, repaired, or altered within the fire limits
of the village in violation of the provisions of the ordinances of the village,
relating to materials and manner of construction of buildings and structures
within the district;
      (3)   All unauthorized signs, signals, markings, or devices placed or
maintained upon or in view of any public highway or railway crossing which
purport to be or may be mistaken as an official traffic-control device,
railroad sign, or signal or which because of its color, location, brilliance,
or manner of operation interferes with the effectiveness of any such device,
sign or signal;
      (4)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
persons driving vehicles on public streets, alleys, or highways from obtaining
a clear view of traffic when approaching an intersection or pedestrian
crosswalk;
      (5)   All limbs of trees which project over and less than 14 feet above
the surface of a public street, or less than ten feet above the sidewalk or any
other public place. Any limbs of trees which protrude into a sidewalk area at
any height are also a nuisance;
      (6)   All use or display of fireworks, except as provided by the laws of
the state and ordinances of the village;
      (7)   All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated, or out of repair
as to be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary, or otherwise unfit for human use;
      (8)   All wires over streets, alleys, or public grounds which are strung
less than 15 feet above the surface thereof;
      (9)   All loud, discordant, and unnecessary noises or vibrations of any
kind;
      (10)   All obstructions of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or crosswalks and
all excavations in or under the same, except as permitted by the ordinances of
the village or which, although made in accordance with such ordinances, are
kept or maintained for an unreasonable or illegal length of time after the
purpose thereof has been accomplished;
      (12)   All open and unguarded pits, wells, excavations, or unused
basements freely accessible from any public street, alley, or sidewalk;
      (13)   All abandoned refrigerators or iceboxes from which the doors and
other covers have not been removed or which are not equipped with a device for
opening from the inside;
      (14)   Any unauthorized or unlawful use of property abutting on a public
street, alley, or sidewalk or of a public street, alley, or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and free use of
the streets or sidewalks; or
      (15)   Repeated or continuous violations of the ordinances of the village
or laws of the state relating to the storage of flammable liquids.
(1999 Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 114, passed 10-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Inspection of premises. Whenever complaint is made to the Village
President that a public nuisance exists within the village, he or she shall
promptly notify the Police Chief, Health Officer, or Building Inspector who
shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises complained of and
shall make a written report of his or her findings to the Village President.
Whenever practicable, the inspecting officer shall cause photographs to be made
of the premises and shall file the same in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Notice to owner. If the inspecting officer shall determine that a
public nuisance exists within the village and that there is great and immediate
danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the Village
President may direct the Police Chief to serve notice on the person causing,
permitting, or maintaining such nuisance or upon the owner or occupant of the
premises where such nuisance is caused, permitted, or maintained and to post a
copy of such notice on the premises. Such notice shall direct the person
causing, permitting, or maintaining such nuisance or the owner or occupant of
the premises to abate or remove such nuisance within seven days and shall state
that unless such nuisance is so abated, the village will cause the same to be
abated and will charge the cost thereof to the owner, occupant, or person
causing, permitting, or maintaining the nuisance, as the case may be.
      (2)   Abatement by village. If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant, or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Health Officer, in case of health nuisances, and the Police Chief,
in other cases, shall cause the abatement or removal of such public nuisance.
      (3)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer shall
determine that a public nuisance exists on private premises but that the nature
of such nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to the
public health, safety, peace, morals, or decency, the inspecting officer shall
file a written report of his or her findings with the Village President, who
shall cause an action to abate such nuisance to be commenced in the name of the
village in the circuit court of the county in accordance with the provisions of
Wis. Stat. Ch. 823.
      (4)   Other methods not excluded. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the abatement of public nuisances by the village or
its officials in accordance with the laws of the state.
(1999 Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 114, passed 10-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 COST OF ABATEMENT.
   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter for the erection,
contrivance, creation, continuance, or maintenance of a public nuisance, the
cost of abating a public nuisance by the village shall be collected as a debt
from the owner, occupant, or person causing, permitting, or maintaining the
nuisance, and if notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, such
cost shall be assessed against the real estate as a special charge.
(1999 Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 114, passed 10-6-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Laura Ingalls Wilder Memorial Park; hours and use regulated
Pepin Harbor
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Markers and signs; interference prohibited
   
93.17   Swimming area designated; fishing and boating prohibited
   
93.18   Littering into water or upon ice prohibited
   
93.19   State law adopted by reference; speed restriction
   
93.20   Tampering with or boarding vessels
   
93.21   Minors in Pepin Harbor
   
93.22   Use of vessels as a residence
   
93.23   Camping prohibited
   
93.24   Restricted hours at certain areas
   
93.25   Enforcement authority
Sportsman’s Boat Landing and Parking Area
   
93.40   Launch fee established
   
93.41   Displaying of permits
   
93.42   Sportsman’s Landing map
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Board of Harbor Commissioners, see §§
30.01 through
30.12
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 LAURA INGALLS WILDER MEMORIAL PARK; HOURS AND USE REGULATED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, all references herein to “park”
shall mean the Laura Ingalls Wilder Memorial Park located within the village.
   (B)   The park shall be open to the public on each and every day from 7:00
a.m. to 11:00 p.m. but shall be closed at all other times. It shall be unlawful
for any person to be upon the premises of such property except at those times
when the park is open as set forth herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter upon the grounds of the
park or to commit any act of vandalism on the premises of the park.
   (D)   Any person or group desiring to reserve the designated shelter within
the park for any given day shall make application therefore to the Village
Clerk for an official permit at least 48 hours prior to the time desired for
such reserved use. Reservations shall be by official permit only.
   (E)   No one shall park any motor vehicle upon the park premises at any time
except authorized police or emergency vehicles, unless prior written permission
is received from the Village Clerk.
   (F)   All vending in the park is subject to approval by the Village Board.
Applications are available at the Village Clerk’s office.
(1999 Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-1974; Ord. passed 11-14-2005)
Penalty, see §
93.99
PEPIN HARBOR
§ 93.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, PEPIN HARBOR shall mean that water area
on Lake Pepin which is inside the Pepin pier and the breakwater barricade and
the shore of Lake Pepin.
(1999 Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 92, passed 6-1-1970)
§ 93.16 MARKERS AND SIGNS; INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Standard markers. All markers and signs placed upon the waters of Lake
Pepin shall comply with the regulations of the Conservation Commission.
   (B)   Interference with markers. No person shall without authority, remove,
damage, destroy, moor, or attach any watercraft to any buoy, beacon, marker, or
sign in the area of the lake as shall be necessary under this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 92, passed 6-1-1970) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 SWIMMING AREA DESIGNATED; FISHING AND BOATING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The swimming area will be that water area in Lake Pepin which has its
outside perimeter marked off by buoys. Swimming shall be prohibited in the
Pepin Harbor.
   (B)   The swimming area for the village shall be marked off by buoys and on
the shore side of such buoys, no fishing of any kind or boating of any kind
shall be permitted.
(1999 Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 92, passed 6-1-1970) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 LITTERING INTO WATER OR UPON ICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit, place, or throw away from the shore, boat, raft,
pier, platform, or similar structure, any cans, bottles, debris, refuse,
garbage, solid or liquid waste sewage, or effluent into the waters of the lake
or upon the ice when formed.
(1999 Code, § 93.18) (Ord. 92, passed 6-1-1970) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; SPEED RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Applicability and enforcement. The provisions of this section shall
apply to the waters of Lake Pepin. This section shall be enforced by the
officers of the village.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide safe and healthful
conditions for the enjoyment of aquatic recreation consistent with public
rights and interests and the capability of the water resources.
   (C)   State boating and safety laws adopted. State boating laws as found in
Wis. Stat. §§ 30.50 through 30.71 are hereby adopted by reference as if set
forth in full herein.
   (D)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SLOW-NO-WAKE. The speed at which a boat moves as slowly as possible while
still maintaining steerage control.
   (E)   Controlled area. No person shall operate a boat faster than slow-no-
wake (three nautical miles per hour) in the waters of the Pepin Harbor at any
time.
   (F)   Posting requirements. The village shall place and maintain a copy of
this prohibition at all public access points within the jurisdiction of the
village.
(1999 Code, § 93.19) (Ord. passed - -1997) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.20 TAMPERING WITH OR BOARDING VESSELS.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully injure, break, remove, or tamper with any
part of any vessel in the Pepin Harbor, any waterway or maritime facility, or
to climb into or upon any vessel without the consent of the owner, unless in
the performance of official duties or to protect life or property.
(1999 Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 MINORS IN PEPIN HARBOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16 years to go, remain,
or be upon any of the gangways, floats, or vessels in the Pepin Harbor, unless
such person is accompanied by an adult, or unless such person has the written
permission of the owner of any vessel located at the Pepin Harbor to go upon
such vessel, or unless such person has permission of the Police Department.
(1999 Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 USE OF VESSELS AS A RESIDENCE.
   No vessel moored or berthed within the Pepin Harbor shall be used as a place
of residence. For the purpose of this regulation, any vessel used as an
overnight accommodation in excess of ten days in any 30- day period shall be
considered a residence.
(1999 Code, § 93.22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp at the Pepin Harbor.
(1999 Code, § 93.23) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24 RESTRICTED HOURS AT CERTAIN AREAS.
   No person shall remain or be present during any restricted hours at the
beach area, the yacht club, or parking lot. Such restricted hours shall be
posted.
(1999 Code, § 93.24) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Police Department, or their designated representative, shall have
authority to enforce all lawful regulations affecting the Pepin Harbor. It
shall be the duty of the Police Department to carry out the orders of the
Village Board and to enforce all regulations and laws of the village and state
laws affecting the waters in the Pepin Harbor area.
(1999 Code, § 93.25)
SPORTSMAN’S BOATING LAND AND PARKING AREA
§ 93.40 LAUNCH FEE ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   No person shall launch from the village Sportsman’s Landing in any
calendar year without paying the launch and/or parking fee established in this
section.
      (1)   Launch: setting a watercraft in motion by pushing it or allowing it
to roll into the water or
on the ice.
      (2)   Watercraft: boats, canoes, kayaks, air boats, jet skis, ATV/UTV or
snowmobiles.
   (B)   All persons who use this facility at the above-named site must pay a
$10 fee per day. Any vehicle left at the launch site (see map in § 93.42) for
more than 24 hours must pay an additional $10 fee for each additional day
parked at the launch site.
   (C)   The fee must be put in the envelope supplied at the launch site. The
permit must be displayed on the driver’s side of the dash or hanging from the
rear-view mirror of the vehicle parked at the launch site (tear-off portion of
permit envelope).
   (D)   Annual passes:
      (1)   For residents living in zip codes 54759 and 54769 (taxpayer living
in the school district of the village), the is fee is $30.
      (2)   For non-residents, the annual pass fee is $100.
      (3)   The licensed tournament registration fee is $300 per tournament.
This does not include launch and or parking fees (excluding non-profit
organizations).
      (4)   The annual pass is valid from January 1 to December 31.
      (5)   No commercial exclusions; commercial users must obtain a seasonal
pass.
      (6)   Government agencies are exempt (WI DNR, municipal, U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers, law enforcement, fire services, and fish and wildlife).
   (E)   Signage with regulations and the ordinance will be displayed. A locked
drop box and envelopes will be available at the Sportsman’s Landing.
   (F)   Seasonal passes are available at the village hall during regular hours
or can be obtained by placing the seasonal pass fee into a site envelope and
depositing said envelope and fee in a launch site drop box. The pass must be
obtained by the registered owner of the vehicle if more than one vehicle is to
be used. The pass should be placed on dash or hung from rear-view mirror.
(Ord. 76, passed - -2021)
§ 93.41 DISPLAYING OF PERMITS.
   The registered owners of vehicles which fail to display permits will be
responsible for the payment of any penalty associated with violation of the
ordinance.
(Ord. 76, passed - -2021)
§ 93.42 SPORTSMAN ’S LANDING MAP.
(Ord. 76, passed - -2021)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter for which
no other specific penalty is provided shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)    Any person violating the provisions of §
93.19 shall be subject to the state boating penalties, as found in Wis. Stat. §
30.80, which are hereby adopted by reference as if set forth in full herein.
   (C)   (1)   The penalty for violations of §§
93.40 and
93.41 shall be $100 for the first offense and $150 for the second or subsequent
offense during the same calendar year.
      (2)   The penalty may be paid at the Village of Pepin, 508 Second Street,
during regular business hours or mail to Village of Pepin, P.O. Box 277, Pepin,
WI 54759 within ten calendar days of the date the violation occurred. The
cancelled check will serve as the receipt.
      (3)   In the event that the penalty required in division (C)(3) above
that has not been paid to the village within ten days of the date the violation
occurred, the penalty shall include a penalty assessment if required by Wis.
Stat. § 165.87, a jail assessment if required by Wis. State. § 302.46(1), and
any applicable fees and court costs prescribed by the state statutes.
(1999 Code, § 93.99) (Ord. 92, passed 6-1-1970; Ord. 110, passed 10-7-1974;
Ord. 92-A, passed 9-12-1977; Ord. 76, passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Uniform house numbering system
   
94.02   Mailbox damage by village equipment/operator
Sidewalks
   
94.15   Removal of snow and ice from sidewalks
   
94.16   Establishment and maintenance prohibited
   
94.17   Standards
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Basis for special assessments concerning water and sewer mains and
associated utility improvements, see §
32.17
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 UNIFORM HOUSE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The village has numbered buildings in accordance with the map attached to
Ordinance 126 and accompanying identification papers.
(1999 Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 126, passed 10-13-1987)
§ 94.02 MAILBOX DAMAGE BY VILLAGE EQUIPMENT/OPERATOR.
   (A)   The village will replace damaged mailboxes when:
      (1)   It can be clearly established the damage was caused by the village
hitting the mailbox or post with village property (heavy snow or ice rolling
off the plow and consequently doing damage cannot be controlled and is not
covered);
      (2)   It can be demonstrated the mailbox was placed consistent with this
section;
      (3)   The mailbox shall be placed with the door of the mailbox to have a
minimum of a six inches setback from the curb or edge of road;
      (4)   The mailbox should be positioned 41 inches to 45 inches above
ground level;
      (5)   That no other obstructions, such as a newspaper box or support arm,
was placed below the height requirement; or
      (6)   The broken post is found to be in otherwise sound condition (not
rotten).
   (B)   The village will either replace with and install a wooden post and
shelf style mailbox platform (along with a USPS standard size mailbox if it was
too damaged), but not to exceed $25 per mailbox and post; or, if the owner
wishes another style unit, they may purchase what they want and install it
themselves. In such case, the village will pay only the $25 limit per mailbox
and post.
(Ord. passed - -2016)
SIDEWALKS
§ 94.15 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE FROM SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Owner’s responsibility. The owner, occupant, or person in charge of
each and every building or structure or unoccupied lot in the village fronting
or abutting any street shall clean or cause to be cleaned the sidewalk in front
of or adjoining each such home, building, or unoccupied lot, as the case may
be, of snow or ice to the width of such sidewalk each day and shall cause the
same to be kept clear from ice and snow; provided, that when the ice has formed
on any sidewalk so that it cannot be immediately removed, the persons herein
referred to shall keep the same sprinkled with salt, sawdust, or sand; provided
also, that in case snow shall continue to fall, then it shall be removed within
24 hours after it shall cease to fall.
   (B)   Village’s option to clear sidewalks. In any case where the owner,
occupant, or person in charge of any building or structure or unoccupied lot
shall fail to clear their respective sidewalks of snow and ice as set forth
above, then and in that event, the village may elect to clear the sidewalks as
follows.
      (1)   Written notice shall be personally served, delivered, or mailed by
certified mail informing the person of his or her failure to clear such
sidewalk, the village’s intention to clear the same, and the potential costs
thereof, no less than 24 hours prior to the village’s clearing such sidewalk.
      (2)   The village shall clear or cause to be cleared all snow and ice
from the subject’s sidewalk, and shall charge the expenses of so doing at the
rate of the current village labor rate per hour but no less than one hour labor
at the current village labor rate per clearance. The charges shall be set forth
in a statement to the Village Treasurer who, in turn, shall mail the same to
the owner, occupant, or person in charge of the subject premises. If the
statement is not paid in full within 30 days thereafter, the statement shall be
reported to the Village Treasurer, who shall enter the charges in the tax roll
as a special tax against such lot or parcel of land, and the same shall be
collected in all respects like other taxes upon real estate, or as provided
under Wis. Stat. § 66.615(3)(f).
(1999 Code, § 94.15) (Ord. 130, passed 7-7-1992) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Removal of snow and ice from sidewalks, see Wis. Stat. §§ 66.0703 and
66.0907(3)(f) and (5)
§ 94.16 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall create a new sidewalk, repair an existing sidewalk, or in
any way damage an existing sidewalk on or within village property or at any
place within the village right-of-way, without the express written permission
of the village to do so.
(1999 Code, § 94.16) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 STANDARDS.
   Property owners may place certain fixtures on sidewalks which immediately
adjoin their property if the following requirements are met.
   (A)   The property must be located in an area used for commercial uses.
   (B)   The fixture(s) shall not be physically attached to the sidewalk, any
street fixture, or any adjacent building, and shall be of a temporary design.
   (C)   The placement of the fixture shall not significantly impede the flow
of pedestrian traffic on the sidewalk.
   (D)   Garbage containers are not allowed on sidewalks.
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   As an alternative to a remedy provided in §
94.15(B), or in addition thereto, the village may impose a penalty for any
violation of any provision of §
94.15; provided, that the person who violates any of the provisions of §
94.15 shall forfeit and pay to the village not less than $25 nor more than
$100, together with the costs of prosecution for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed during each day (24 hours) or part thereof
during which a violation occurs or continues.
(1999 Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 130, passed 7-7-1992)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Flammable and Combustible Liquid Storage Tanks
   
95.01   Fee schedule
   
95.02   Notice of removal
   
95.03   Enforcement
Fire Code Violation Inspection and Enforcement
   
95.10   Authority
   
95.11   Frequency of fire prevention inspections
   
95.12   Duties of the Fire Inspection
 
   
95.99   Penalty
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID STORAGE TANKS
§ 95.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees shall apply to the removal of flammable and combustible
liquid storage tanks.
   (A)   Commercial. For the removal of commercial underground and aboveground
flammable and combustible storage tanks, the fee shall be $50 per tank with a
minimum per site fee of $100. COMMERCIAL TANKS are defined as any tanks covered
in conjunction with Chapters 54 through 62, and Chapter 66 of the Commercial
Building Code of the State Department of Commerce.
   (B)   Residential. For the removal of one- and two-family dwelling flammable
and combustible liquid storage tanks, the fee shall be $50 per tank. FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS are defined in Chapters 20 and 21 of the SPS 320.07
Uniform Dwelling Code.
(1999 Code, §
95.01) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
§ 95.02 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   All owners of commercial and family residential dwelling underground and
aboveground flammable and combustible liquid tanks shall notify the Chippewa
Fire Protection District of any and all tank removals in accordance with the
State Department of Commerce Code ILHRIO, which requires a minimum of a 15-day
notice of removal.
(1999 Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
§ 95.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chippewa Fire Protection District, as the local program operator, is
empowered to enforce this chapter within the village limits, as per its
contract with the State Department of Commerce.
(1999 Code, § 95.03) (Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
FIRE CODE VIOLATION INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.10 AUTHORITY.
   Wisconsin Administrative Rule SPS 314 of the Wisconsin Administrative Code,
including any amendments relating to fire protection and prevention are adopted
and by reference made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Any
act required to be performed or prohibited by any chapter of the Wisconsin
Administrative Code incorporated herein by reference is required or prohibited
by this section.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
§ 95.11 FREQUENCY OF FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTIONS.
   In accord with Wis. Adm. Code § SPS 314.01(13)(b)7a, fire prevention
inspections of all public buildings and places of employment in the village
shall be conducted at least once per calendar year or more often as is ordered
by the Fire Chief, provided, however, that the interval between each such
inspection shall not exceed 15 months. For purposes of this section, public
buildings shall include any state-licensed tourist rooming house.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
§ 95.12 DUTIES OF THE FIRE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall hold the office of Fire
Inspector, with power to appoint one or more Deputy Fire Inspectors, or an
authorized contractor with Village Board approval, who shall perform the same
duties and have the same powers as the Fire Inspector.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Inspector to inspect all buildings,
premises and thoroughfares, as required by SPS 314, and the interiors of
private dwellings annually within the fire limits of the village if they are
proposed to be used as a short-term rental business under Chapter 115 of the
Village Code of Ordinances, for the purpose of noting and causing to be
corrected any condition liable to cause fire.
   (C)   The Fire Inspector shall also investigate the storage and handling of
explosives and inflammable liquids as needed within the village.
   (D)   Whenever or wherever in the village any inspection by the Fire Chief
or his or her deputies reveals a fire hazard, the Chief or his or her deputies
shall serve notice in writing upon the owner of the property giving the owner a
reasonable time in which to remove the hazard. In the event that the fire
hazard is not removed within the time allowed, or the next scheduled
inspection, it shall be deemed a nuisance, as proscribed in Chapter 92.02 of
the Village of Pepin Code of Ordinances. If enforcement action is required, the
Fire Chief shall notify the Police Chief for the appropriate enforcement
action. Penalties shall apply as described in §
95.99 below. If deemed necessary, the Fire Chief or his or her deputy is
authorized to have the nuisance abated, and the cost of such nuisance abatement
shall be recovered in an action by the village against the owner of the
property as per §§
92.04 and
92.05.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall keep a written record of each property inspected
which shall conform to the requirements of SPS 314 and shall make a quarterly
report of inspections to the Village Board.
   (F)   No person shall deny the Fire Chief or his or her deputies free access
to any property within the village. Whenever necessary to make an inspection to
enforce this chapter, or whenever there is reasonable cause to believe there
exists a fire code violation in any building or upon any property or upon any
premises within the village, an authorized Fire Inspector of the village may,
upon presentation of proper credentials, enter such building or premises or
property at all reasonable times to inspect the same or to perform any duty
imposed upon him or her by ordinance, provided that, except in emergency
situations or when consent of the owner, occupant or both if they can be
located after reasonable effort, 24-hours’ written notice is given of the
authorized official’s intentions to inspect.
   (G)   The notice transmitted to the owner, occupant, or both, shall state
that in the event entry is refused, legal action, including the issuance of a
search warrant, may be pursued by the authorized official. In the event the
owner, occupant or both refuses entry upon such request after such request has
been made, the official is empowered to seek assistance in the form of
appropriate legal action from any court of competent jurisdiction in obtaining
such entry.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to remedy any fire hazard identified in an inspection conducted
under § 95.12(D) in the time allowed shall result in a fine as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2022)
CHAPTER 96: EXTERIOR LIGHTING
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Offenses
   
96.03   Enforcement
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. The shining of light upwards into the sky above the
horizontal plane of the light fixture, or lighting that interferes with the
ability to see the night sky caused by light trespass, excess of glare, excess
of direct light, excess of reflected light, and light from inadequately
shielded lights.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. The light from a light source that illuminates an area
beyond the boundaries of the property on which the light source is located in a
manner that disrupts the quiet enjoyment of neighboring properties or tends to
cause a hazard.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES. Outdoor artificial illuminating devices, installed
or portable, used for flood lighting, general illumination, or advertisement.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 96.02 OFFENSES.
   (A)   All artificial lighting for yards, business and parking areas shall be
arranged so as to eliminate light trespass. Any light fixture installed on a
residential or business property must direct and shield light coming from the
fixture so that the light source is not directly visible from any adjacent
property. Lighting must focus downward, eliminating direct upward light and
reducing spill light. Light trespass may be reported to the village for problem
resolution.
   (B)   Outdoor lighting fixtures shall include, but are not limited to,
lights for buildings and structures, including canopies and overhangs;
recreational areas; parking lot lighting; landscape lighting; billboards and
signs; business lighting next to residential areas; private street lighting;
display and service area lighting; public and private walkway lighting; rural
barn lights; residential yard lights; and yard lights used for businesses
located in residential areas.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police, after receiving a complaint and after
inspecting lighting including portable lighting, finds such lighting to be in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall notify the owner
of the property and the owner of the sign in writing by registered mail, or by
causing a notice to be delivered personally to such owner(s) requiring them to
repair, alter, change, or remove such lighting within two weeks (14 days) from
the receipt of such notice.
   (B)   Where the repair, alteration, change, or removal of lighting is a
matter of extreme urgency so as to be a danger to the public, or motorists or
any other situation deemed to be dangerous, the Police Department may give
notice verbally and may reduce the period within which, in his or her sole
discretion, is adequate, taking into account the circumstances at the time the
notice is given.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Refusal by the owner to comply with this chapter in the time allotted shall
result in a forfeiture for each day of violation as set forth in §
10.99 of this code. If not corrected within 30 days, the village shall cause
the removal of the offending lighting at the expense of the owner and the
expenses incurred may be recovered in like manner as municipal taxes.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   DIRECT SELLERS
      
112.   HOTEL/MOTEL ROOM TAX
      
113.   MOBILE OR TEMPORARY RESTAURANTS
      
114.   RESERVED
      
115.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
 
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Approved buildings required for use of alcoholic beverage licenses
Fermented Malt Beverages; Regulation and Licensing
   
110.15   Statutes adopted
   
110.16   License required
   
110.17   License classes; fees
   
110.18   License restrictions
   
110.19   Application
   
110.20   Investigation and inspection
   
110.21   Granting of license
   
110.22   Posting of license
   
110.23   Operator’s license
   
110.24   Suspension and revocation of license
   
110.25   Issuance of license prohibited for nonpayment of taxes, assessments,
and claims
   
110.26   Hours of operation
   
110.27   Health rules
   
110.28   Dangerous weapons prohibited in licensed premises
Intoxicating Liquor; Regulation and Licensing
   
110.40   Statutes adopted
   
110.41   License required
   
110.42   License classes; fees
   
110.43   Part-time license
   
110.44   Application
   
110.45   Investigation and inspection
   
110.46   Restrictions
   
110.47   Granting of license
   
110.48   Transfer of license
   
110.49   Hours of operation
   
110.50   Posting of license
   
110.51   Conditions of license
   
110.52   License revocation
   
110.53   Issuance of license prohibited for nonpayment of taxes, assessments,
and claims
   
110.54   Payment of liquor taxes required
   
110.55   Health rules
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
   Alcoholic beverage offenses, see §§
130.40 through
130.42
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 APPROVED BUILDINGS REQUIRED FOR USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES.
   (A)   All fermented malt beverage or liquor licenses granted by the Village
Board must be placed in use in a building approved by the Village Board within
11 months and ten days of the granting of such license or licenses. Failure to
comply with this provision shall constitute grounds for the revocation of such
license or licenses.
   (B)   All fermented malt beverage and liquor licenses granted by the Village
Board, whether before or after the adoption of this section, shall not be
renewed unless they are being used in a building approved by the Village Board
prior to the time an application for the renewal of such license is granted by
the village.
   (C)   In the event a fermented malt beverage or liquor license granted by
the Village Board is not used because the building it was used in was destroyed
by fire, wind, or other casualty or because the building is vacated for any
reason whatsoever and such license or licenses is not used for a period of 23
months in another building approved by the Village Board, this shall constitute
grounds for the revocation of such license or licenses.
   (D)   Extensions can be granted by the Village Board if progress is being
made to show that the license will be utilized.
(1999 Code, § 110.01) (Ord. 125, passed 5-4-1987)
FERMENTED MALT BEVERAGES; REGULATION AND LICENSING
§ 110.15 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subchapter, the statutory
provisions of Wis. Stat. §§ 125.01 through 125.34 describing and defining
regulations with respect to the sale of alcoholic beverages, exclusive of any
regulation for which no statutory penalty is a fine or term of imprisonment,
are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of this subchapter as if set
forth fully herein. Any act required to be performed or prohibited by any
statute incorporated herein by reference is required or prohibited by this
subchapter. Any future amendment or revisions or modifications of the statutes
incorporated herein are intended to be made part of this subchapter in order to
secure, to the extent legally practicable, uniform state-wide regulations of
sales of alcoholic beverages.
(1999 Code, § 110.15) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association shall,
within the village, distribute, sell, or offer for sale or keep for sale at
wholesale or retail any fermented malt beverage, or cause the same to be done
without having procured a license as provided in this subchapter, except as
provided in Wis. Stat. § 125.06.
   (B)   A license shall be required for each stand, place, room, or enclosure,
or for each suite of rooms or enclosures which are in direct connection or
communication or contiguous to each other where such beverages are kept, sold,
or offered for sale, and no license shall be issued to any person or
corporation for the purpose of possessing, selling, or offering for sale any
such beverage in any dwelling house, flat, or apartment house.
(1999 Code, § 110.16) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.17 LICENSE CLASSES; FEES.
   There shall be four classes of licenses.
   (A)   Dealer’s license. A Class A retailer’s license, when issued by the
Village Clerk under authority of the Board, shall entitle the holder thereof to
possess, sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages only for consumption
away from the premises where sold in original packages, containers, or bottles.
The fee for such Class A license shall be $100. There shall be imposed upon
Class A retailer’s licenses a quota within the village, such quota being one
license for every 300 population or part thereof. QUOTA is defined as the
number of licenses the village may grant or have issued during any one
licensing year.
   (B)   Tavern license. A Class B retailer’s license, when issued by the
Village Clerk under authority of the Board, shall entitle the holder thereof to
possess, sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages. The fee for such
Class B license shall be $100. A license may be issued at any time for a period
of six months in any calendar year for which three-fourths of the license fee
shall be paid, but such six-month licenses shall not be renewable during the
calendar year in which issued. Such licenses may also be associations or
agricultural societies, lodges, or societies that have been in existence for
not less than six months prior to the date of application or to posts now or
hereafter established, of veterans organizations, authorizing them to sell
fermented malt beverages at a particular picnic or similar gathering or at a
meeting of any such posts during a fair conducted by such fair associations or
agricultural societies for a fee of $10.
   (C)   Wine license. A Class C wine license, when issued by the Village Clerk
under authority of the Board, shall entitle the holder thereof to possess,
sell, or offer for sale wine only for consumption away from the premises where
sold in original packages, containers, or bottles. The fee for such Class C
license shall be $100.
   (D)   Wholesaler’s license. A wholesaler’s license when issued by the
Village Clerk under authority of the Board to a domestic corporation or to a
foreign corporation licensed under Wis. Stat. Ch. 226 of the business in this
state or to persons who fulfill all the requirements as outlined in Wis. Stat.
§ 125.04(5) who have been residents of the state continuously for not less than
one year prior to the date of filing application therefor shall entitle the
holder thereof to possess, sell, or offer for sale fermented malt beverages
only in original packages or containers and in quantities of not less than four
and one-half gallons at any one time, not to be consumed in or about the
premises where sold. The fee for a wholesale license shall be $25.
(1999 Code, § 110.17) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.18 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The following restrictions will apply to the granting of licenses.
      (1)   No Class A, B, or C license shall be granted to any person under 18
years of age.
      (2)   No retail Class B license shall be issued for premises the main
entrance of which is less than 300 feet from the main entrance of any
established public school, parochial school, hospital, or church, nor in any
residence district. Such distance shall be measured via the shortest route
along the highway from the main entrance of such school, church, or hospital to
the main entrance to such premises. Any premises shall be deemed to be included
within a residence district if two-thirds of the buildings within a radius of
300 feet of the main entrance of such premises are used exclusively for
residence purposes or the uses incidental thereto.
      (3)   A Class B license shall be issued only for that portion of premises
located on the street level. Nothing in this division (A)(3) shall prohibit any
hotel holding a state permit from supplying beverages in the original
containers to bona fide patrons in rooms rented by such patrons.
      (4)   Division (A)(3) above shall not apply to a bona fide club, society,
or lodge in existence not less than six months prior to the date of
application.
      (5)   Each premises for which a Class B license is granted must be
connected with water and sewage facilities, must be properly lighted and
ventilated, and supplied with separate sanitary toilet and lavatory facilities
equipped with running water for each sex.
   (B)   (1)   A retail Class A, B, or C license shall be granted only to
persons who are citizens of the United States and of the state, and have
resided in this state continuously for no less than one year prior to the date
of filing application for such license, except that Class A licenses may be
issued to a domestic corporation, or to a foreign corporation engaged in the
manufacture of fermented malt beverages and licensed under Wis. Stat. Ch. 226
to do business in this state.
      (2)   No such license shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of a felony, unless such person has been pardoned, nor to any person,
firm, partnership, corporation, or association who has been convicted of a
violation of any federal or state alcoholic beverage laws or of any provisions
of this subchapter during a period of one year prior to such application. Such
conviction of a member of a partnership or of the partnership itself shall make
the partnership or any members thereof ineligible for a license for one year.
      (3)   No Class B license shall be granted for any premises where any
other business shall be conducted in connection with such licensed premises,
except that such restriction shall not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A hotel;
         (b)   A restaurant which is not a part of or located in a mercantile
establishment;
         (c)   A combination grocery store and tavern;
         (d)   A combination sporting goods store and tavern in towns,
villages, and fourth- class cities;
         (e)   A combination novelty store and tavern;
         (f)   A bowling alley or recreation premises; or
         (g)   A club, society, or lodge that has been in existence for six
months or more prior to the date of filing application for a Class B license or
permit.
      (4)   No Class A, B, or C license shall be issued to any person acting as
agent for or in the employ of another. Except for Class B licenses, this
restriction shall not apply to a hotel, or a grocery, or a gasoline service
station which also deals in food stuffs, wearing apparel, and miscellaneous
items, or to a restaurant not a part of or located in or upon the premises of
any mercantile establishment, or to a bona fide club, society, or lodge that
shall have been in existence for not less than six months prior to the date of
application. Such license for a hotel, restaurant, grocery, club, society, or
lodge may be taken in the name of an officer or manager, who shall be
personally responsible for compliance with all of the terms and provisions of
this subchapter.
      (5)   Not more than two Class A, B, or C licenses shall be issued to any
one person, and in each application for such license, the applicant shall state
that he or she has not made application for more than one Class A, B, or C
license for any other location in the state.
(1999 Code, § 110.18) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.19 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A written application for a license to sell or deal in fermented malt
beverages shall be made in writing upon forms provided by the State Department
of Revenue and shall be filed with the Village Clerk not less than 15 days
prior to the granting of such license. The premises shall be physically
described to include every room and storage space to be covered by the license,
including all rooms not separated by a solid wall or joined by connecting
entrances.
   (B)   Such application shall be accompanied by the cost of publication
pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 125.04(3) and shall be published as therein
prescribed.
   (C)   Whenever anything occurs to change any fact set out in the application
of any licenses, such licensee shall file with the issuing authority a notice
in writing of such change within ten days after the occurrence thereof.
   (D)   The Board shall meet and act upon applications as provided by Wis.
Stat. § 125.51(1)(c). Upon approval, a duplicate copy of each application shall
be forwarded to the State Department of Revenue.
(1999 Code, § 110.19) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.20 INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police, Health Officer,
Chief of the Fire Department, and Building Inspector of such application, and
these officials shall inspect or cause to be inspected each application and the
premises to determine whether the applicant and the premises sought to be
licensed comply with the regulations, ordinances, and laws applicable thereto.
These officials shall furnish to the Village Board in writing the information
derived from such investigation, and a statement as to whether the applicant
and the premises meet the requirements of the Department for whom the officer
is certifying. No license shall be renewed without a reinspection of the
premises.
   (B)   In determining the suitability of an applicant, consideration shall be
given to the moral character and financial responsibility of the applicant, the
appropriateness of the location and premises where such licensed business is to
be conducted, and generally the applicant’s fitness for the trust to be
granted.
(1999 Code, § 110.20) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.21 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Opportunity shall be given by the governing body to any person to be
heard for or against the granting of any license. Upon the approval of the
application by the Board, the Village Clerk shall, upon the payment to the
village of the fee provided by §
110.17 of this chapter, issue to the applicant a license. Such license fees
shall be paid to the Village Treasurer who shall deposit them in the General
Fund. The full license fee shall be charged for the whole or fraction of any
year except as provided in §
110.17(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   All licenses shall be numbered in the order in which they are issued
and shall state clearly the specific premises for which granted, the dates of
issuance, the fee paid, the name of the licensee, and shall expire on June 30
thereafter. The provisions of Wis. Stat. § 125.04(4) shall apply.
(1999 Code, § 110.21) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.22 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be enclosed in a frame having a transparent front which
allows the license to be clearly read, and shall be posted and at all times
displayed in a conspicuous place in the room where such business is carried on.
(1999 Code, § 110.22) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 OPERATOR’S LICENSE.
   (A)   A beverage operator’s license as provided by Wis. Stat. § 125.17 may
be issued by the Board to persons upon the payment of a fee of $5. A written
application shall be filed with the Village Clerk stating the name and
residence of the applicant. The application shall be referred to the Chief of
Police for a report. No license shall be granted to a person under 18 years of
age.
   (B)   Operator’s licenses shall expire on June 30 next ensuing. The license
fee under this section shall be paid to the Village Treasurer who shall deposit
such fees in the General Fund. Each operator’s license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in the room or place where alcoholic beverages are drawn or
removed for service or sale.
(1999 Code, § 110.23) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.24 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Procedures for suspension or revocation of any license issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall be those set forth in Wis. Stat. § 125.12.
(1999 Code, § 110.24) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.25 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE PROHIBITED FOR NONPAYMENT OF TAXES, ASSESSMENTS,
AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   Premises. No initial or renewal alcoholic beverage license shall be
granted for any premises for which taxes, assessments, or other claims of the
village are delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   Persons. The Village Clerk shall notify any of the following that no
initial or renewal alcohol license shall be granted to any person:
      (1)   Delinquent in payment of taxes, assessments, or other claims owed
to the village;
      (2)   Delinquent in payment of a forfeiture resulting from a violation of
any ordinance of the village; or
      (3)   Delinquent in payment to the state of any state taxes owed.
(1999 Code, § 110.25) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.26 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Every Class B licensee and his or her employees, agents, or representatives
shall observe the hours of operation as directed by the state statutes.
(1999 Code, § 110.26) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.27 HEALTH RULES.
   Each licensed premises shall be maintained and conducted in a sanitary
manner and shall be a safe and proper place for the purpose for which used. All
rules and regulations affecting the sanitation of Class B premises adopted by
the Board of Health of the village pursuant to Wis. Stat. Ch. 251 are hereby
adopted and made a part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 110.27) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.28 DANGEROUS WEAPONS PROHIBITED IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   No person shall enter or remain upon the licensed premises of any Class A,
B, or C intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverage licensee when they carry
or otherwise possess a dangerous weapon, whether concealed or not, or whether
encased in a container or not. No license holder or his or her employee shall
permit any person to enter or remain upon the licensed premises who is in
violation of this section. For the purposes of this section, a DANGEROUS WEAPON
shall include but not be limited to any rifle; shotgun; revolver; pistol; bow
and arrow; gas, air, or spring operated gun, including a pellet, BB, or dart
gun; gun or firearm of any kind; knife; sword; or other weapon the use of which
could cause bodily harm regardless of whether the weapon is loaded or not with
ammunition and including any facsimile, replica, model, or toy resembling a
dangerous weapon.
(1999 Code, § 110.28) (Ord. 127, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
INTOXICATING LIQUOR; REGULATION AND LICENSING
§ 110.40 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this subchapter, the statutory
provisions of Wis. Stat. §§ 125.01 through 125.51 and 125.51 through 125.70
describing and defining regulations with respect to the sale of alcoholic
beverages, exclusive of any regulation for which no statutory penalty is a fine
or term of imprisonment, are hereby adopted and by reference made a part of
this subchapter as if set forth fully herein. Any act required to be performed
or prohibited by any statute incorporated herein by reference is required or
prohibited by this subchapter. Any future amendment or revisions or
modifications of the statutes incorporated herein are intended to be made part
of this subchapter in order to secure, to the extent legally practicable,
uniform state-wide regulations of sales of alcoholic beverages.
(1999 Code, § 110.40) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or association shall,
within the village, vend, sell, deal, or traffic in, or for the purpose of
evading any law or ordinance, give away any intoxicating liquor in any quantity
whatever, or cause the same to be done, without having procured a license as
provided in this subchapter, nor without complying with all the provisions of
this subchapter, and all statutes, ordinances, and regulations applicable
thereto.
   (B)   A license shall be required for each stand, place, room, or enclosure,
or for each suite of rooms or enclosures which are in direct connection or
communication to each other where intoxicating liquor is kept, sold, or offered
for sale, and no license shall be issued to any person, firm, partnership,
corporation, or association for the purpose of possessing, selling, or offering
for sale any intoxicating liquor in any dwelling house, flat, or residential
apartment.
(1999 Code, § 110.41) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.42 LICENSE CLASSES; FEES.
   There shall be two classes of licenses.
   (A)   Retail Class A liquor license.
      (1)   A retail Class A liquor license, when issued by the Village Clerk
under authority of the Board, shall permit retail sales of intoxicating liquors
only in original packages or containers to be consumed off the premises so
licensed. The fee for such retail Class A liquor license shall be $500 per
year.
      (2)   There shall be imposed upon Class B liquor licenses a quota within
the village, as determined by Wis. Stat. § 125.51(4). QUOTA is defined as the
number of Class B licenses the village may grant or have issued during any one
licensing year.
   (B)   Retail Class B liquor license. A retail Class B liquor license, when
issued by the Village Clerk under authority of the Board, shall permit the
retail sale of intoxicating liquors to be consumed by the glass only on the
premises where sold and in the original package or containers in multiples not
to exceed four liters at any one time and to be consumed off the premises. Wine
may be sold in the original package or container in any quantity to be consumed
off the premises where sold. The fee for such retail Class B liquor license
shall be $500.
(1999 Code, § 110.42) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.43 PART-TIME LICENSE.
   Licenses may be granted which shall expire on June 30 of each year upon
payment of such proportion of the annual license fee as the number of months or
fraction of a month remaining until June 30 of each year bears to 12. Licenses
may also be issued at any time for a period of six months in any calendar year
for which one-half of the annual license fee shall be paid. Such six-month
licenses shall not be renewable during the calendar year in which issued.
(1999 Code, § 110.43) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.44 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license to sell or deal in intoxicating liquor shall
be made in writing on the form prescribed by the State Department of Revenue
and shall be filed with the Village Clerk not less than 15 days prior to the
granting of such license. The premises shall be physically described to include
every room and storage space to be covered by the license, including all rooms
not separated by a solid wall or joined by connecting entrances.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by the cost of publication as
stipulated by Wis. Stat. § 125.04(3), and shall be published as therein
prescribed.
   (C)   Whenever anything occurs to change any fact set out in the application
of any licensee, such licensee shall file with the issuing authority a notice
in writing of such change within ten days after the occurrence thereof.
   (D)   The Board shall meet and act upon applications as provided by Wis.
Stat. § 125.51(1)(c). Upon approval, a duplicate copy of each application shall
be forwarded to the State Department of Revenue.
(1999 Code, § 110.44) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.45 INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall notify the Chief of Police, Health Officer,
Chief of the Fire Department, and the Building Inspector of such application,
and these officials shall inspect or cause to be inspected each application and
the premises, together with such other investigation as shall be necessary to
determine whether the applicant and the premises sought to be licensed comply
with the regulations, ordinances, codes, and laws applicable thereto, including
those governing sanitation in restaurants. These officials shall furnish to the
Board, in writing, the information derived from such investigation, and a
statement as to whether the applicant and the premises meet the requirements of
the department for whom the officer is certifying. No license shall be renewed
without a reinspection of the premises and report.
   (B)   In determining the suitability of an applicant, consideration shall be
given to the moral character and financial responsibility of the applicant, the
appropriateness of the location and premises where such licensed business is to
be conducted, and generally the applicant’s fitness for the trust to be
granted.
(1999 Code, § 110.45) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.46 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any person, or persons, who is not of
good moral character and a citizen of the United States and of the state, and
who has not resided in this state continuously for at least one year prior to
the date of filing the application; nor shall any license be issued to any
person who has habitually been a petty law offender, or has been convicted of
an offense against the laws of the state punishable by imprisonment in the
state prison, unless the person so committed has been duly pardoned. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a corporation, but such
provisions shall apply to all officers, agents, and directors of any such
corporation.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any person under 18 years of age.
   (C)   No license shall be issued until a valid federal special tax stamp
appropriate to the business has been obtained.
   (D)   No retail Class A or Class B license shall be issued for a premises,
the main entrance of which is less than 300 feet from the main entrance of any
established public school, parochial school, hospital, or church. Such distance
shall be measured via the shortest route along the highway from the main
entrance of such school, church, or hospital to the main entrance to such
premises. This section shall not apply to premises licensed as such on June 30,
1947, or the purposes or the uses incidental thereto.
   (E)   No retail Class B license shall be issued in any residence district.
Any premises shall be deemed to be included within a residence district if two-
thirds of the buildings within a radius of 300 feet are used exclusively for
residence purposes or the uses incidental thereto.
   (F)   No license shall be granted for the operation of any premises upon
which taxes or assessments or other financial claims of the village are
delinquent and unpaid.
   (G)   No retail Class B license shall be issued unless the premises to be
licensed conforms to the sanitary, safety, and health requirements of the State
Building Code, and the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health
applicable to restaurants as contemplated in Wis. Stat. § 125.68(5), and also
conform to all ordinances, codes, and regulations adopted by the village.
(1999 Code, § 110.46) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.47 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   Opportunity shall be given by the Board to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of any license. Upon the approval of the application by
the Board, the Village Clerk shall, upon the filing by the applicant of a
receipt showing the payment of the required license fee to the Village
Treasurer, issue to the applicant a license. Each license shall be numbered in
the order in which they are issued and shall specifically state the premises
for which issued, the date of issuance, the fee paid, and the name of the
licensee. The provisions of Wis. Stat. § 125.04(4) shall apply. Except as
provided in §
110.43 of this subchapter, all licenses shall remain in force until the last
day of June next after the granting thereof, unless sooner revoked.
(1999 Code, § 110.47) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.48 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be transferable as to licensee, except as provided by
Wis. Stat. § 125.04(12)(b).
   (B)   Every license or permit issued pursuant to this subchapter may, upon
authority granted by the Board and upon payment of a fee of $10, be transferred
from one premises to another within the village, but no licensee shall be
entitled to more than one such transfer in any one license year. The
application and proceedings for such transfer shall be made on the form
furnished by the State Department of Revenue and shall be made in the same form
and manner as the original application.
(1999 Code, § 110.48) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.49 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The hours of operation will be established in accordance with the state
statutes.
(1999 Code, § 110.49) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.50 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every license or permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be enclosed
in a suitable frame having a transparent front which allows the license or
permit to be read. All such licenses or permits shall be conspicuously
displayed for public inspection at all times in the room or place where the
activity subject to permit or license is carried on. It shall be unlawful for
any person to post such license or permit, or to be permitted to post such,
upon premises other than those mentioned in the application, or knowingly to
deface or destroy such license or permit, or to remove such without the consent
of the licensee or permit holder. Whenever a license or permit shall be lost or
destroyed without fault on the part of the holder or an agent or employee, a
duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the Village Clerk on verification
of the facts, upon the payment of a fee of $1.
(1999 Code, § 110.50) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.51 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   All retail Class A and Class B licenses granted hereunder shall be granted
subject to the following conditions of this subchapter, and subject to all
other ordinances and regulations of the village applicable thereto. Every
applicant procuring a license thereby:
   (A)   Consents to the entry of police or other duly authorized
representatives of the village at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspection and search;
   (B)   Consents to the removal from such premises of all things and articles
there had in violation of village ordinances, this subchapter, or state laws;
and
   (C)   Consents to the introduction of such things and articles in evidence
in any prosecution that may be brought for such offenses.
(1999 Code, § 110.51) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.52 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A violation of this subchapter by a duly authorized agent or employee of a
licensee or permit holder shall constitute a violation by the licensee or
permit holder. Whenever the holder of any license or permit under this
subchapter shall violate any portion of this subchapter, proceedings for the
revocation of such license or permit may be instituted in the manner and under
the procedure established by Wis. Stat. § 125.12, and the provision therein
relating to granting a new license shall likewise be applicable.
(1999 Code, § 110.52) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.53 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE PROHIBITED FOR NONPAYMENT OF TAXES, ASSESSMENTS,
AND CLAIMS.
   (A)   Premises. No initial or renewal alcoholic beverage license shall be
granted for any premises for which taxes, assessments, or other claims of the
village are delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   Persons. The Village Clerk shall notify any of the following that no
initial or renewal alcohol license shall be granted to any person:
      (1)   Delinquent in payment of taxes, assessments, or other claims owed
to the village;
      (2)   Delinquent in payment of a forfeiture resulting from a violation of
any ordinance of the village; or
      (3)   Delinquent in payment to the state of any state taxes owed.
(1999 Code, § 110.53) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987)
§ 110.54 PAYMENT OF LIQUOR TAXES REQUIRED.
   No licensee shall possess or sell or offer for sale any intoxicating liquors
upon which the state tax established by Wis. Stat. Ch. 139 has not been paid.
(1999 Code, § 110.54) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.55 HEALTH RULES.
   Each licensed premises shall be maintained and conducted in a sanitary
manner and shall be a safe and proper place for the purpose for which used. All
rules and regulations affecting the sanitation of Class B premises adopted by
the Board of Health of the village pursuant to Wis. Stat. Ch. 251 are hereby
adopted and made a part of this subchapter.
(1999 Code, § 110.55) (Ord. 128, passed 10-5-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: DIRECT SELLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration required
   
111.03   Exemptions
   
111.04   Application for registration
   
111.05   Investigation; denial of registration
   
111.06   Appeal
   
111.07   Prohibited practices
   
111.08   Disclosure requirements
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Any benevolent, philanthropic, patriotic, or
eleemosynary person, partnership, association, or corporation, or one
purporting to be such.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk.
   DIRECT SELLER. Any individual who, for himself or herself, or for a
partnership, association, or corporation, sells goods, or takes sales orders
for the later delivery of goods, at any location other than the permanent
business place or residence of such individual, partnership, association, or
corporation, and shall include but not be limited to peddlers, solicitors, and
transient merchants. The sale of goods includes donations required by the
direct seller for the retention of goods by a donor or prospective customer.
   GOODS. Personal property of any kind, and shall include goods provided
incidental to services offered or sold.
   PERMANENT MERCHANT. A direct seller who, for at least one year prior to the
consideration of the application of this chapter to such merchant:
      (1)   Has continuously operated an established place of business in this
village; or
      (2)   Has continuously resided in this village and now does business from
his or her residence.
(1999 Code, § 111.01) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any direct seller to engage in direct sales within
the village without being registered for that purpose as provided herein.
(1999 Code, § 111.02) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from all provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Any person delivering newspapers, fuel, dairy products, or bakery
goods to regular customers on established routes;
   (B)   Any person selling goods at wholesale to dealers in such goods;
   (C)   Any person selling agricultural products which such person has grown;
   (D)   Any permanent merchant or employee thereof who takes orders away from
the established place of business for goods regularly offered for sale by such
merchant within this county and who delivers such goods in their regular course
of business;
   (E)   Any person who has an established place of business where the goods
being sold are offered for sale on a regular basis, and in which the buyer has
initiated contact with, and specifically requested a home visit by such person;
   (F)   Any person who has had, or one who represents a company which has had,
a prior business transaction, such as a prior sale or credit arrangement, with
the prospective customer;
   (G)   Any person selling or offering for sale a service unconnected with the
sale or offering for sale of goods;
   (H)   Any person holding a sale required by statute or by order of any court
and any person conducting a bona fide auction sale pursuant to law;
   (I)   Any employee, officer, or agent of a charitable organization who
engages in direct sales for or on behalf of such organization; provided, that
there is submitted to the Village Clerk proof that such charitable organization
is registered under Wis. Stat. § 202.12. Any charitable organization not
registered under Wis. Stat. § 202.12, or which is exempt from that statute’s
registration requirements, shall be required to register under this chapter; or
   (J)   Any person who claims to be a permanent merchant, but against whom
complaint has been made to the Village Clerk that such person is a transient
merchant; provided, that there is submitted to the Village Clerk proof that
such person has leased for at least one year, or purchased, the premises from
which he or she is conducting business, or proof that such person has conducted
such business in this village for at least one year prior to the date complaint
was made.
(1999 Code, § 111.03) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applicants for registration must complete and return to the Village
Clerk a registration form furnished by the Village Clerk which shall require
the following information:
      (1)   Name, permanent address, and telephone number, and temporary
address, if any;
      (2)   Age, height, weight, and color of hair and eyes;
      (3)   Name, address, and telephone number of the person, firm,
association, or corporation that the direct seller represents or is employed
by, or whose merchandise is being sold;
      (4)   Temporary address and telephone number from which business will be
conducted, if any;
      (5)   Nature of business to be conducted and a brief description of the
goods offered, and any services offered;
      (6)   Proposed method of delivery of goods, if applicable;
      (7)   Make, model, and license number of any vehicle to be used by
applicant in the conduct of his or her business;
      (8)   Last cities, villages, towns, not to exceed three, where applicant
conducted similar business;
      (9)   Place where applicant can be contacted for at least seven days
after leaving this village; and
      (10)   Statement as to whether applicant has been convicted of any crime
or ordinance violation related to applicant’s transient merchant business
within the last five years; the nature of the offense and the place of
conviction.
   (B)   Applicants shall present to the Village Clerk for examination:
      (1)   A driver’s license or some other proof of identity as may be
reasonably required;
      (2)   A state certificate of examination and approval from the sealer of
weights and measures where applicant’s business requires use of weighing and
measuring devised approved by state authorities; and
      (3)   A state health officer’s certificate where applicant’s business
involves the handling of food or clothing and is required to be certified under
state law; such certificate to state that applicant is apparently free from any
contagious or infectious disease, dated not more than 90 days prior to the date
the application for license is made.
   (C)   (1)   At the time the registration is returned, a fee of $30 shall be
paid to the Village Clerk to cover the cost of processing such registration.
      (2)   The applicant shall sign a statement appointing the Village Clerk’s
agent to accept service of process in any civil action brought against the
applicant arising out of any sale or service performed by the applicant in
connection with the direct sales activities of the applicant, in the event the
applicant cannot, after reasonable effort, be served personally.
      (3)   Upon payment of such fee and the signing of such statement, the
Village Clerk shall register the applicant as a direct seller and date the
entry. Such registration shall be valid for a period of one year from the date
of entry, subject to subsequent refusal as provide in §
111.05(B) of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 111.04) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 4-26-2021)
§ 111.05 INVESTIGATION; DENIAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of each application, the Village Clerk shall refer it
immediately to the Chief of Police who may make and complete an investigation
of the statements made in such registration.
   (B)   No permit will be issued without a complete background check of the
applicant(s).
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall refuse to register the applicant if it is
determined, pursuant to the investigation, that:
      (1)   The application contains any material omission or materially
inaccurate statement;
      (2)   Complaints of a material nature have been received against the
applicant by authorities in the last cities, villages, and towns, not exceeding
three, in which the applicant conducted similar business;
      (3)   The applicant was convicted of a crime, statutory violation, or
ordinance violation within the last five years, the nature of which is directly
related to the applicant’s fitness to engage in direct selling; or
      (4)   The applicant failed to comply with any applicable provision of §
111.04(B) of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 111.05) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984; Ord. passed 4-26-2021)
§ 111.06 APPEAL.
   Any person denied registration may appeal the denial through the appeal
procedure provided by ordinance or resolution of the Village Board, or, if none
has been adopted, under the provisions of Wis. Stat. §§ 68.07 through 68.16.
(1999 Code, § 111.06) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984)
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   A direct seller shall be prohibited from:
      (1)   Calling at any dwelling or other place between the hours of 9:00
p.m. and 9:00 a.m., except by appointment;
      (2)   Calling at any dwelling or other place where a sign is displayed
bearing the words “no peddlers,” “no solicitors,” or words of similar meaning;
      (3)   Calling at the rear door of any dwelling place; or
      (4)   Remaining on any premises after being asked to leave by the owner,
occupant, or other person having authority over such premises.
   (B)   A direct seller shall not misrepresent or make false, deceptive, or
misleading statements concerning the quality, quantity, or character of any
goods offered for sale, the purpose of his or her visit, his or her identity,
or the identity of the organization he or she represents. A charitable
organization direct seller shall specifically disclose what portion of the sale
of goods being offered will actually be used for the charitable purpose for
which the organization is soliciting. Such portion shall be expressed as a
percentage of the sale price of the goods.
   (C)   No direct seller shall impede the free use of sidewalks and streets by
pedestrians and vehicles. Where sales are made from vehicles, all traffic and
parking regulations shall be observed.
   (D)   No direct seller shall make any loud noises or use any sound
amplifying device to attract customers if the noise produced is capable of
being plainly heard outside a 100-foot radius of the source.
   (E)   No direct seller shall allow rubbish or litter to accumulate in or
around the area in which he or she is conducting business.
(1999 Code, § 111.07) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   After the initial greeting and before any other statement is made to a
prospective customer, a direct seller shall expressly disclose his or her name,
the name of the company or organization he or she is affiliated with, if any,
and the identity of goods or services he or she offers to sell.
(1999 Code, § 111.08) (Ord. 122, passed 9-10-1984)
CHAPTER 112: HOTEL/MOTEL ROOM TAX
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Imposition of tax
   
112.03   Collection of tax
   
112.04   Division of room tax revenues
   
112.05   Records to be maintained
   
112.06   Confidentiality maintained
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS. Any place of temporary lodging that
provides four or fewer rooms for rent, which is open for rental more than ten
nights in a 12-month period, is the owner’s personal residence, is occupied by
the owner at the time of rental, and in which the only meal served is
breakfast.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings in which the public may
obtain accommodations for a consideration, including, without limitation, such
establishments as inns, motels, tourist homes, tourist houses or courts, bed
and breakfast establishments, lodging houses, rooming houses, summer camps,
apartment hotels, resort lodges and cabins, and any other buildings or groups
of buildings in which accommodations are available to the public, except
accommodations rented for a continuous period of more than one month and
accommodations furnished by any hospital, sanitorium, or nursing home or by
corporations or associations organized and operated exclusively for religious,
charitable, or educational purposes, provided that no part of the net earnings
of such corporations and associations inures to the benefit of any private
shareholder or individual.
   TRANSIENT. Any person residing for a continuous period of less than one
month in a hotel, motel, or other furnished accommodations available to the
public.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000)
§ 112.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   Pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 66.0615, a tax is hereby imposed on the privilege
and services of furnishing, at retail, of rooms or lodging to transients by
hotel keepers, motel operators, and other persons furnishing accommodations
that are available to the public, irrespective of whether membership is
required for the use of the accommodations. Such tax shall be at the rate of 8%
of the total sales receipts from such retail furnishing of rooms or lodging.
Such tax shall not be subject to the selective sales tax imposed by Wis. Stat.
§ 77.52(2)(a)1.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 10-10-2016)
§ 112.03 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Administration by Village Treasurer. The hotel/motel tax shall be
administered by the Village Treasurer who shall, at the village expense,
provide the necessary application and reporting forms at no cost to the
taxpayer.
   (B)   Reporting periods. The tax imposed for the months of January,
February, and March, and for each calendar quarter thereafter, is due any
payable on the last day of the month next succeeding the calendar quarter for
which imposed. A return shall be filed with the Village Treasurer, by those
furnishing at retail such rooms and lodging, on or before the same date on
which such tax is due and payable. Such returns shall show the gross receipts
of the preceding calendar quarter from such retail furnishing of room or
lodging, the amount of taxes imposed for such period, and such other
information as the Village Treasurer deems necessary. Every person required to
file such quarterly return shall, with his or her first return, elect to file
an annual calendar year or fiscal year return. Such annual return shall be
filed within 90 days of the close of each such calendar or fiscal year. The
annual return shall summarize the quarterly returns, reconcile and adjust for
errors in the quarterly returns, and shall contain certain such additional
information as the Village Treasurer requires. Such annual returns shall be
made on forms as prescribed by the Village Treasurer. All such returns shall be
signed by the person required to file a return or duly authorized agent, but
need not be verified by oath. The Village Treasurer may, for good cause, extend
the time for filing any return, but in no event longer than one month from the
filing date.
   (C)   Sale or conveyance of business. If any person liable for any amount of
tax under this chapter sells out his or her business or stock of goods or quits
the business, his or her successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient
portion of the purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner
produces a receipt from the Village Treasurer that it has been paid or a
certificate stating that no amount is due. If a person subject to the tax
imposed by this chapter fails to withhold such amount of tax from the purchase
price as required, he or she shall become personally liable for payment of the
amount required to be withheld by him or her to the extent of the price of the
accommodations valued in money.
   (D)   Determination of tax by audit.
      (1)   The Village Treasurer may, by office audit, determine the tax
required to be paid to the village or the refund due to any person under this
chapter. This determination may be made upon the basis of the facts contained
in the return being audited or on the basis of any other information within the
Village Treasurer’s possession that meets the criteria set forth in Wis. Stat.
§ 66.0615(2). One or more such office audit determination may be made of the
amount due for any one or for more than on period.
      (2)   The Village Treasurer may, by field audit, determine the tax
required to be paid to the village or the refund due to any person under this
chapter. The determination may be made upon the basis of the facts contained in
the return being audited or upon any other information within the Village
Treasurer’s possession. The Village Treasurer is authorized to examine and
inspect the books, records, memoranda, and the property of any person in order
to verify the tax liability of that person or of another person. Nothing herein
shall prevent the Village Treasurer from making a determination of tax at any
time.
   (E)   Failure to file return. If any person fails to file a return as
required by this chapter, the Village Treasurer shall make an estimate of the
amount of the gross receipts under divisions (B) and (C) above. Such estimate
shall be made for the period for which such person failed to make a return and
shall be based upon any information which is in the Village Treasurer’s
possession or may come into the Treasurer’s possession. On the basis of this
estimate, the Village Treasurer shall compute and determine the amount required
to be paid to the village, adding to the sum thus arrived at a penalty equal to
10% thereof. One or more such determinations may be made for one or more than
one period.
   (F)   Interest on unpaid taxes. All unpaid taxes under this chapter shall
bear interest at the rate of 12% per year from the due date of the return until
the first day of the month following the month in which the tax is paid or
deposited with the Village Treasurer. An extension of time within which to file
a return shall not operate to extend the due date of the return for purposes in
interest computations. If the Village Treasurer determines that any overpayment
of tax has been made intentionally or by reason of carelessness or neglect, or
if the tax which was overpaid was not accompanied by a complete return, he or
she shall not allow any interest thereon.
   (G)   Delinquent returns; late fee; penalty.
      (1)   Delinquent tax returns shall be subject to a late filing fee of
$100. The tax imposed by this chapter shall become delinquent if not paid:
         (a)   In the case of a timely filed return, within 30 days after the
due date of the return, or within 30 days after the expiration of an extension
period, if one is granted; or
         (b)   In the case of no return filed or a return filed late, by the
due date of the return.
      (2)   If due to negligence no return is filed, or a return is filed late,
or an incorrect return is filed, the entire tax finally determined shall be
subject to a forfeiture established herein as follows:
         (a)   A forfeiture of 25% or $5,000, whichever is less, of the tax
imposed and is due and owing within 30 days after the due date of said return;
and
         (b)   If a person fails to file a return when due or files a false or
fraudulent return with the intent in either case to defeat or evade a tax
imposed by this chapter, a forfeiture of 50% of the entire tax finally
determined shall be added to the tax required to be paid exclusive of interest
and other penalties.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 DIVISION OF ROOM TAX REVENUES.
   (A)   The total receipts collected under the imposition of this tax shall be
divided and used as set forth in this section. Seventy percent of said total
receipts shall be used for the promotion of tourism in the village. The Village
Tourism Commission shall be charged with the authority to determine how said
monies shall be used.
   (B)   Of the remaining 30% of total receipts, 28% shall be directed to the
village’s General Fund for use as determined appropriate by the Village Board.
The remaining 2% of the total receipts shall be retained by the reporting
entity for use in offsetting the costs of reporting.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000; Ord. passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2022-2152, passed 2-15-
2022)
§ 112.05 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   Every person liable for the tax imposed by this section shall keep or cause
to be kept such records, receipts, invoices, and other pertinent papers in such
form as the Village Treasurer and this chapter shall require. Such records
shall be retained and made available for a period of five years from the due
date of a filing period.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000)
§ 112.06 CONFIDENTIALITY MAINTAINED.
   (A)   All tax returns, schedules, exhibits, writings, or audit reports
relating to such returns on file with the Village Treasurer are deemed to be
confidential, except the Village Treasurer may divulge their contents to the
following and no others:
      (1)   The person who filed the return;
      (2)   Officers, agents, or employees of the Internal Revenue Service or
the State Department of Revenue;
      (3)   Officers, employees, or agents of the village auditors;
      (4)   Such other public officials of the village when deemed necessary;
or
      (5)   When directed by court order.
   (B)   No persons having an administrative duty under this section shall make
known in any manner the business affairs, operations, or information obtained
by an investigation of records of any person on whom a tax is imposed by this
section or the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or
any particulars thereof, set forth of disclosed in any return, or to permit any
return or copy thereof to be seen or examined by any person, except as provided
above.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is subject to the tax imposed by this chapter or who fails or
refused to permit the inspection of his or her records by the Village Treasurer
after such inspection has been duly required by such Treasurer, or who fails to
file a return as provided in this chapter, or who violates any other provision
of this chapter, shall be subject to a forfeiture pursuant to §
10.99. Each day, or portion thereof, that such violation continues is hereby
deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2000)
CHAPTER 113: MOBILE OR TEMPORARY RESTAURANTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Scope
   
113.04   License required
   
113.05   Regulations
   
113.06   Violations
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the operator(s) of any mobile
restaurant or temporary restaurant in the village. All operators shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter, except for privately-owned, commercially
zoned property.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE RESTAURANT. A restaurant operating from a movable vehicle, pushcart,
trailer, or boat, which periodically or continuously changes location and
wherein meals, lunches, snacks, and the like are prepared or served or sold to
the general public, excepting those vehicles used in the delivery of pre-
ordered meals or lunches prepared in a licensed restaurant. MOBILE RESTAURANT
does not include a common carrier regulated by the state or federal government.
   OPERATE. All activities associated with the conduct of business, including
set up and take down and/or actual hours where the mobile food vehicle is open
for business.
   TEMPORARY RESTAURANT (POP UP RESTAURANT). A restaurant that operates at a
fixed location in conjunction with a single event, such as a fair, carnival,
public exhibition, anniversary, sale, customer appreciation, occasional sales
promotion, and the like.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 113.03 SCOPE.
    The provisions of this chapter apply to mobile restaurants engaged in the
business of cooking, preparing, serving, and distributing food or beverages,
with or without charge, upon or in public and private restricted spaces. This
chapter does not apply to temporary restaurants, or to a religious, charitable,
or non-profit organization which supplies food or beverages without charge.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 113.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
    (A)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to operate a mobile restaurant, as
defined above, on public or private property, except for privately-owned,
commercially zoned property within the village without first obtaining a permit
from the Village Clerk. Permits are set to expire on December 31 of each year.
A set fee of $200 annually or $50 for a one weekend use will only be granted
upon verification of a state- approved license and liability insurance.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be on forms provided by the City
Clerk and shall include the following:
      (1)   Name, signature, phone number, email contact and business address
of the applicant; and
      (2)   Information on the mobile food vehicle, including the year, make
and model of the vehicle and dimensions, which shall not exceed 36 feet in
length or nine feet in width.
   (C)   A license issued under this chapter shall not be transferable from
person to person and shall not be transferred between vehicles.
   (D)   All licenses shall be prominently displayed on the mobile restaurant.
(Ord. passed 10-7-2019; Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022) Penalty,
see  §
10.99
§ 113.05 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile restaurants are permitted in all non-residential zoning
districts of the village. The Village
Board, by resolution, may identify additional streets and public areas where
parking by mobile food vehicles is permitted.
   (B)   If operating on private property, they shall produce written
permission from the property owner or lessee.
   (C)   Operation on public property shall be limited to special events, which
shall be pre-approved by the Village Board.
   (D)   The Village Board shall have the right to waive or alter permit fees
on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
§ 113.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates or refuses to comply with any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a forfeiture as per §
10.99 and is adopted by reference.
    (B)   Each day a violation exists, or continues, shall be considered a
separate violation. Where/when appropriate, injunctive relief may be sought by
the village against continuing violations.
(Ord. passed 4-26-2021; Ord. passed - -2022)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section:
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Short-term rental license required
   
115.04   License application filings and fees
   
115.05   Short-term rental annual renewal process
   
115.06   Planning Commission application review
   
115.07   Operation of short-term rentals
   
115.08   Operational rules
   
115.09   Denial or revoking license
   
115.10   Long range planning
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that the quality of short-
term rentals operating within the village is adequate for protecting the
health, safety and general welfare of the community, including establishing
minimum standards of space for human occupancy, and for an adequate level of
maintenance, determining the responsibilities of owners, operators and host
representatives offering properties for tourists and transient occupants.
   (B)   To protect the character and stability of all areas, especially
residential areas, within the village; to provide minimum standards necessary
for the health and safety of person(s) occupying or using buildings, structures
or premises; and provisions for the administration and enforcement thereof.
Because of the relatively small size and geography of the village, a few
departures from these objectives can have significant impact on residents.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, short-term rentals are considered a
conditional use business in Residential Area zones. Short-term rentals are
considered a permitted use in Commercial Zone and Low Commercial Impact Area
zones. The use of a dwelling unit for this purpose shall be conditional upon
meeting the requirements of this chapter, and all other ordinances of the
village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING. Any building, facility (including RVs and mobile homes, and
including seasonal units in a campground), structure, or part of the building
or structure, that is used or intended for use as a home, residence, or
sleeping place by one or more persons.
   HOST REPRESENTATIVE. Person(s) who are managers of the dwelling or person(s)
who can respond as needed either by phone or on site within 30 minutes, who the
owner of the dwelling has assigned to act as agent for the rental property.
   LODGING MARKETPLACE. An entity that provides a platform through which an
unaffiliated third party offers to rent a short-term rental to an occupant and
collects the consideration for the rental from the occupant. (Per Wis. Stat. §
66.0615(1)(bs))
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Village of Pepin Planning Commission, responsible for
approving short-term rental licenses.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A dwelling offered for rent as a tourist rooming house as
defined by ATCP Ch 72.03, for a fee and for fewer than 30 days. Excluded from
this definition are bed and breakfast establishments, hotels, and motels.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL LICENSE. Per Wis. Stat. § 66.1014, a license issued by the
Village Clerk. The term shall run from August 1 of a given year through July 31
of the next year.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022)
§ 115.03 SHORT-TERM RENTAL LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, manage, or operate a short-term rental
without a short-term rental license. Every short-term rental shall be operated
by a property owner or property host representative. Licenses are issued to the
property owner and expire when the title to the property is transferred, or the
one-year time period expires.
   (B)   Each short-term rental is required to maintain in good standing the
following licenses and permits:
      (1)   A current short-term rental license issued by the Village Clerk.
      (2)   A State of Wisconsin license for a tourist rooming house issued for
the specified location under Wis. Stat. § 254.64.
      (3)   General building and fire code inspection completed by the Village
Fire Code Inspector and there are no outstanding orders on file.
      (4)   A seller’s permit, consumer’s use tax certificate, or use tax
certificate as needed, issued by the Wisconsin Department of Revenue, or
alternatively a demonstration of satisfaction of this requirement for this
location by a lodging marketplace.
      (5)   Any change in lodging marketplace status shall be reported to the
Village Clerk within ten days of occurrence.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 LICENSE APPLICATION FILINGS AND FEES.
   (A)   All applications for a short-term rental license shall be filed with
the Village Clerk on forms provided. Applications must be filed by the property
owner.
      (1)   Each license issued under this chapter expires on July 31.
      (2)   A license initially issued during the period beginning on May 1 and
ending on July 31 expires on July 31 of the following year.
      (3)   An initial filing fee of $500 shall be paid upon filing of the
application. This fee includes payment for the first year operating license.
      (4)   No permit shall be issued unless the completed application form is
accompanied by payment of the required fee.
      (5)   Any application or renewal request which does not include all the
information and documentation shall not be considered as complete. The Village
Clerk will determine if the application is complete and meets the application
requirements.
      (6)   A renewal fee of $300 shall be due July 31 of each calendar year.
      (7)   A preliminary review of a potential short-term rental application
can be done for an additional fee of $200. See §
115.06(B).
      (8)   All fees are non-refundable.
      (9)   Short-term rental licenses and permits are non-transferrable.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following information and
documentation for each short-term rental:
      (1)   A copy of a completed state lodging establishment inspection form
dated within one year of the date of issuance along with proof of payment.
      (2)   A building floor plan and requested maximum occupancy.
      (3)   Site plan including a designation of available on site parking.
      (4)   A copy of the house manual for renters.
   (C)   No license shall be issued or renewed unless there is filed with the
Village Clerk a completed fire hazard inspection report from an authorized
Village Fire Inspector showing no deficiencies, dated not more than one year
before the date of issuance or renewal.
   (D)   No license shall be issued or renewed, if the applicant, or property
location has outstanding fees, taxes or forfeitures owed to the village, unless
arrangements for payment have been approved by the Village Clerk.
   (E)   When satisfied that the application is complete, the Village Clerk
shall forward initial applications for permits and licenses to the Village
Planning Commission for a public hearing and review under
Chapter 151.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 SHORT-TERM RENTAL ANNUAL RENEWAL PROCESS.
   Annual renewal shall be conditional upon compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter. The Village Clerk shall approve any renewal
application unless there is a problem. The Village Clerk will then refer any
compliance issues to the Planning Commission for review and action as needed.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 PLANNING COMMISSION APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   Planning Commission public hearing process.
      (1)   When the Village Clerk determines that the application is complete,
the Village Clerk shall notify by U.S. certified mail all property owners
within 250 feet of a proposed short-term rental of the opportunity to attend
and comment on the requested use at a public hearing before a license is
approved.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and prepare a
report regarding compliance with the zoning ordinance to the Planning
Commission on its suitability.
      (3)   At the Planning Commission hearing the Commission may approve,
modify, or deny the request.
      (4)   The Planning Commission, during a public hearing, may include other
operating requirements such as parking, trash management, limits on occupancy
levels, or limits on occupancy duration in the permit as necessary to ensure
the health and welfare of the village residents.
      (5)   Any outside signage proposed for the short-term rental operation
shall be separately reviewed as required under Chapter
151.
      (6)   Any appeal of the Planning Commission findings on the requested
license shall be made to the Village Board.
   (B)   Preliminary review process.
      (1)   When a property owner is seeking advanced review of a possible use
of a dwelling, or proposed dwelling, for a short-term rental use at a
particular property may initiate a preliminary review in the license
application process by paying the $200 preliminary filing fee and initiating a
Planning Commission review of the potential use. The following information is
required to perform the review:
         (a)   Building scale drawings and requested maximum occupancy.
         (b)   Site plan including a designation of available on site parking.
         (c)   A description of the timeline for operation and other details
about the intended operational management structure.
      (2)   Such a preliminary review shall be valid for only one year. Any
substantive changes to the preliminary information may require an additional
hearing when the full application process is initiated.
      (3)   Completion of a preliminary review does not eliminate the need for
a conditional use public hearing that may will be required during the regular
application process. No license shall be issued and no operation as a short-
term rental shall begin until all license requirements have been met and a
license has been issued by the village.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 OPERATION OF SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   Minimal conditions required for the approval and operation of the short-term
rental:
   (A)   Occupancy. Occupancy of the short-term dwelling is limited to maximum
occupancy provided in Wis. Adm. Code or as otherwise established in the
conditional use permit. No recreational vehicles (RVs), campers, tents or other
temporary lodging arrangements shall be permitted on site as a means of
providing additional accommodations beyond the number of occupants that is
authorized.
   (B)   Insurance. The applicant has insurance against claims of personal
injury and property damage for short-term property rental. Coverage provided by
a lodging marketplace can be used to satisfy this requirement.
   (C)   Local contact. Host representative or other person(s) responsible for
the short-term dwelling while it is rented. This information shall be given to
the Village Clerk to keep on file for each dwelling.
   (C)   Tax ordinance. The short-term rental shall always comply with the
village hotel/motel room tax ordinance (Chapter
112) and timely payments shall be made to the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Records. The number of occupants in any unit for each rental shall be
recorded and not exceed the limits set forth in the State of Wisconsin Uniform
Dwelling Code. Each short-term rental shall be able to provide a guest register
be able to verify that guests have registered using their true names and
addresses before beginning occupancy of the short-term rental. The register
shall be kept accessible and available for inspection by representatives of the
village for at least one year [See ATCP 72.16].
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08 OPERATIONAL RULES.
   (A)   Each village license shall be prominently displayed inside of and near
the main entrance door of each short-term rental.
   (B)   Each short-term rental shall have a set of operational rules supplied
to occupants providing at a minimum information regarding the following:
      (1)   Contact information for local emergency services.
      (2)   Contact information for local contact of dwelling owner and/or host
representative.
      (3)   Information regarding the following:
         (a)   Village noise ordinance (§
130.07).
         (b)   Village nuisance ordinance (§
92.03).
         (c)   A map showing the property lines.
         (d)   Occupancy limits of the short-term rental.
         (e)   Parking expectations (in accordance with the village parking
ordinance (Ch.
71) and as indicated in the Planning Commission license decision).
   (C)   Pets, if allowed, must be restricted to the property, and animal
owners must comply with the village animal ordinance §§
90.03 through
90.12).
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 DENIAL OR REVOKING LICENSE.
   (A)   Denial of any license application or renewal may be appealed by filing
a written appeal request with the Village Clerk within ten days of the
village’s notice of denial. The appeal shall be heard by the Village Board,
which shall make the final recommendation.
   (B)   If village residents find a short-term rental to be disruptive, the
Village Board will review the complaint and may provide a written finding to
the property owner and give the property owner a reasonable time to correct the
issues.
   (C)   The Village Board will use compliance with other existing ordinances,
and the short-term rental license requirements to determine if there is reason
to revoke the license. A license may also be revoked by the Village Board for
one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to make payment on property tax or debt owed to the
village.
      (2)   Failure to make room tax payments to the village.
      (3)   Three or more calls for police service for nuisance activities
within a 12-month period.
      (4)   Failure to remedy deficiencies identified in the annual village
building fire inspection requirements.
      (5)   Failure to comply with village ordinances or pay any fees for
violations thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 LONG RANGE PLANNING.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the Village
Board regarding the need to modify conditions on the location, density, or
total number of short-term rental licenses the village should issue based on
protecting the health, safety, and general welfare of the community and
consistent with the intent of the Village Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   The Village Zoning Administrator shall maintain a map showing the
location of all permitted short-term rentals.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a master list of all licensed short-
term rental facilities, including the host representative name and contact
information.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter any person advertising and/or
renting a short-term rental operation without first obtaining a license from
the village shall be subject to a $500 fine. Each day the operation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. A subsequent offense shall also result
in a one-year suspension of issuance of any short-term rental license for that
property owner under this chapter. A third offense shall result in a permanent
suspension of a license for that property owner.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2022; Res. passed 5-18-2022)
 
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST VILLAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST VILLAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Sale and use of fireworks
   
130.02   Abandoned or unattended refrigerators and the like prohibited
   
130.03   Disorderly conduct prohibited
   
130.04   Resisting or interfering with officers
   
130.05   Obscenity prohibited
   
130.06   Destruction of property prohibited
   
130.07   Noise which disturbs public peace prohibited
   
130.08   Curfew regulations
   
130.09   Electrical interference with radio and television reception
   
130.10   Shoplifting
   
130.11   Possession of marijuana
   
130.12   Burning restricted
   
130.13   Purchase or possession of tobacco or vaping products by minors
   
130.14   Sale of tobacco or vaping products to minors prohibited
   
130.15   Possession of drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
130.16   Trespassing on public, private, and school property
Weapons
   
130.25   Carrying concealed knives prohibited
   
130.26   Discharge of firearms or weapons prohibited
Alcoholic Beverage Offenses
   
130.40   Possession outside taverns or picnic areas prohibited
   
130.41   Possession or consumption; open containers in vehicles
   
130.42   Public intoxication prohibited
   
130.98   Violations; liability for costs of replacing damaged property
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 SALE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   The provisions of Wis. Stat. § 167.10, exclusive of any penalty provision,
is adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978)
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 130.02 ABANDONED OR UNATTENDED REFRIGERATORS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall leave outside any building or dwelling in a place accessible
to children any abandoned, unattended, or discarded ice box, refrigerator, or
any other container of any kind which has a snap lock or other device thereon
without first removing such snap lock, doors, or other locking device from such
ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(1999 Code, § 130.02) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
   Storage of junked or discarded property; abatement, see §
91.01
§ 130.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person within the village shall:
      (1)   In any public or private place engage in violent, noisy, riotous,
abusive, indecent, profane, boisterous, unreasonably loud, or otherwise
disorderly conduct which tends to cause or provoke an immediate disturbance of
public order or tends to annoy or disturb any other person; or
      (2)   Intentionally cause, provoke, or engage in any fight, brawl, riot,
or noisy altercation other than a bona fide athletic contest.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to defecate or urinate outside of
designed sanitary facilities upon any sidewalk, street, alley, public parking
lot, park, playground, cemetery, or other public area within the village, or
upon any private property in open view of the public, or in the halls,
stairways, or elevators of public or commercial buildings, or to indecently
expose his or her person.
   (C)   Any and all music held outside of a building during a public
gathering, commercial business hours, or a private event, whether live music or
recorded, must cease at or before 12:00 a.m.
(1999 Code, § 130.03) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978; Ord. 118-A, passed 5-9-1994)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS.
   (A)   No person shall, without reasonable excuse or justification, resist or
interfere with any officer of the village or refuse to obey any lawful order
given by such officer while such officer is doing any act in an official
capacity and with lawful authority.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(1999 Code, § 130.04) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.
    It shall be a violation of this section for any person to conduct, sell,
give away, or distribute within the village any obscene material or
performance, as defined in Wis. Stat. § 944.21(2)(c) and (d).
(1999 Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §  
130.99
§ 130.06 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully injure or intentionally deface, destroy, or
unlawfully remove, take, or meddle with any property belonging to the village
or its departments or to any private person without the consent of the owner or
proper authority.
(1999 Code, § 130.06) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 NOISE WHICH DISTURBS PUBLIC PEACE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make or assist in making any noise tending to
unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of persons in the vicinity thereof,
unless the making and continuing of same cannot be prevented and is necessary
for the protection or preservation of property, or of the health, safety, or
limb of some person.
   (B)   No person shall play any radio, television set, phonograph, cassette
player, compact disc player, or any musical instrument from a residence,
business, motor vehicle, or any other area in such a manner or with such volume
at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of
persons in any office or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or
of any persons in the vicinity.
(1999 Code, § 130.07) (Ord. 84, passed 8-5-1968; Ord. 84-A, passed 9-12-1977;
Ord. 84-B, passed 8-7-1978; Ord. passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 130.08 CURFEW REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Policy and purpose. The village, in order to control the activities of
persons under the age of 16 years, does create this section, recognizing that
parents and guardians of such young people have the responsibility of
controlling and regulating their children or wards activities.
   (B)   Curfew hours. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 16
years to be upon the streets of the village after the hours of 10:00 p.m. on
any day of the week, except that this section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or the
sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent or
guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next- door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer; or
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   It is a exemption to division (B) that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, including any
investigation that a reasonable person would deem necessary, none of the
exemptions enumerated in this section apply.
(1999 Code, § 130.08) (Ord. 77, passed 9-18-1963) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 ELECTRICAL INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the limits of
the village any electrical apparatus, device, machine, or equipment which
needlessly and unnecessarily causes interference with radio or television
reception when such interference can be reasonably prevented by means of
repairs, adjustments, the installation of corrective appliances, or other
practicable alterations.
   (B)   The Village Board shall have the power to appoint an inspector for the
purpose of enforcing this section, who shall at all reasonable hours, on
demand, be permitted to enter any and all premises where such electrical
equipment, apparatus, or devices be kept or used, for the purpose of inspecting
the same.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the such inspector to investigate complaints
of radio interference, to locate the sources of such interference, to advise
and make recommendation as to its elimination, and such inspector is hereby
authorized to issue orders for such repairs, adjustments, or alterations to be
complied with within a reasonable length of time, as shall be practicable and
reasonably necessary in preventing the continuance of such interference.
   (D)   Any person or persons complaining of such interference in writing may
upon paying a reasonable fee to the inspector have the inspector examine and
inspect any premises designated by the complainants as having electrical
equipment or apparatus interfering with the radio or television reception in
that locality.
(1999 Code, § 130.09) (Ord. 21, passed 4-1-1929) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 SHOPLIFTING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property, shall
knowingly obtain or exert control over the property in any of the following
ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception; or
      (4)   By threat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division (B), whoever violates this section shall be punished
as provided in §
130.99. If the value of the property is $500 or more, then a violation of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(1999 Code, § 130.10) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess marijuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, practitioners, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with state or federal law; or
      (2)   Any person who obtained the marijuana pursuant to a prescription
issued by a practitioner in accordance with state or federal law, where the
drug is in the original container in which it was dispensed to such person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of marijuana.
Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), whoever violates this
section shall be punished as provided in §
130.99. If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams, then a
violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(1999 Code, § 130.11) (Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 BURNING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any refuse, garbage, wet
combustibles, rubbish, oily substances, asphalt, rubber, or any other
substances which produce a malodorous emission as defined by the Wis. Admin.
Code NR 429:03(2).
   (B)   Excepting common yard waste, it shall be unlawful for any person to
burn dry combustibles unless said burning is done entirely within a covered or
enclosed receptacle.
   (C)   Fires may be set at such times and in such manner as deemed necessary
for the reasonable practice and instruction of firefighters or for the testing
of firefighting equipment. Said burning shall be under the direct supervision
of the Village Fire Chief.
   (D)   Common yard waste, such as dry grass, leaves, and brush may be burned
on properties where the material has been collected provided that every such
fire shall be attended at all times by a responsible person under the direction
of the property owner to ensure that such fires are maintained under control.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any common yard waste,
such as dry grass, leaves, or brush on any village street, or approach thereto
such as the curb and or gutter of a village street.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO OR VAPING PRODUCTS BY MINORS.
   (A)   (1)   Purchase or possession of cigarettes, tobacco or vaping products
by persons under 18 years of age is prohibited.
      (2)   Vapor products include vapes, vaporizers, vape pens, hookah pens,
electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes or e-cigs) and e-pipes are some of the many
terms used to describe electronic nicotine delivery systems (ENDS). ENDS are
non-combustible tobacco products.
   (B)   No person under 18 years of age may falsely represent his or her age
for the purpose of receiving any cigarette, tobacco or vaping product.
   (C)   No person under 18 years of age may purchase, attempt to purchase, or
possess any cigarette, tobacco or vaping product except as follows.
      (1)   A person under 18 years of age may purchase or possess cigarettes,
tobacco or vaping products for the sole purpose of resale in the course of
employment during his or her working hours if employed by a retailer.
      (2)   A person under 18 years of age, but not under 15 years of age, may
purchase, attempt to purchase, or possess cigarettes, tobacco or vaping
products in the course of his or her participation in an investigation under
Wis. Stat. § 254.916, that is conducted in accordance with Wis. Stat. § 254.916
(3).
   (D)   A law enforcement officer shall seize any cigarette, tobacco or vaping
product that has been sold to and is in the possession of a person under 18
years of age.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2015; Ord. passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 SALE OF TOBACCO OR VAPING PRODUCTS TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No retailer, manufacturer, distributor, jobber, or sub-jobber, no
agent, employee, or independent contractor of a retailer, manufacturer,
distributor, jobber, or sub-jobber, and no agent or employee of an independent
contractor may sell or provide for nominal or no consideration cigarettes,
tobacco or vaping products to any person under the age of 18, except as
provided in Wis. Stat. § 254.92(2)(a). A vending machine operator is not liable
under this division (A) for the purchase of cigarettes, tobacco or vaping
products from his or her vending machine by a person under the age of 18 if the
vending operator was unaware of the purchase.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer shall seize any cigarette, tobacco or vaping
product that has been sold to and is in the possession of a person under 18
years of age.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2015; Ord. passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may use, or possess with the primary intent to use drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of the laws of this state.
   (B)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA shall be defined as set forth at Wis. Stat. §
961.571, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 TRESPASSING ON PUBLIC, PRIVATE, AND SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Property. PROPERTY includes real and personal property and includes,
but is not limited to, boathouses, houseboats, motor vehicle dealership lots,
ships or vessels, any building or dwelling, enclosed railroad cars, motor home,
or other motorized type of home or a trailer home, whether or not a person is
living in such home.
   (B)   Trespassing generally.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to knowingly trespass upon the property
of another. As used in this section, the term PROPERTY includes any land,
dwelling, building, conveyance, vehicle, or other temporary or permanent
structure, whether publicly- or privately-owned. The term TRESPASS means one or
more than the following acts:
         (a)   Entering property without permission. Entering upon or in
property without the express permission of the owner, lessee, or person in
lawful possession with the intent to commit a public offense or to use, remove
therefrom, alter, damage, harass, or place thereon or therein anything animate
or inanimate;
         (b)   Entering or remaining on property. Entering or remaining upon or
in property without justification after being notified or requested to abstain
from entering; or to remove or vacate therefrom by the owner, lessee, or person
in lawful possession, or by any police officer or public employee whose duty it
is to supervise the use of or maintenance of the property;
         (c)   Interfering with lawful use of property. Entering upon or in
private property for the purpose or with the effect of unduly interfering with
the lawful use of the property by others; or
         (d)   Using property without permission. Being upon or in property and
wrongfully using, removing therefrom, altering, damaging, harassing, or placing
thereon or therein anything animate or inanimate without the implied or actual
permission of the owner, lessee, or person in lawful possession.
      (2)   Nothing in divisions (B)(2)(a) through (B)(2)(d) above shall be
construed to prohibit entering upon the property of another for the sole
purpose of retrieving personal property which has accidentally or inadvertently
been thrown, fallen, strayed, or blown onto the property of others, provided
the person(s) retrieving the property takes the most direct and accessible
route to and from the property to be retrieved, quits the property as quickly
as possible, and does not unduly interfere with the lawful use of the property.
   (C)   Public building unauthorized entry. No unauthorized person shall enter
or remain in or upon any public building, premises, or grounds in violation of
any notice posted thereon, or when said building, premises, or grounds are
closed and not open to the public. When open to the public, a failure to pay
any required admission also constitutes an unauthorized entry.
   (D)   Trespass to property.
      (1)   No person shall intentionally enter or remain upon the property,
premises, or within the enclosure of another, without the consent or permission
of the owner, agent, or possessor.
      (2)   No person shall intentionally enter or remain upon the property or
premises of another after having been notified by the owner, agent, or
possessor of the property or premises not to enter or remain on the property or
under circumstances tending to create or provoke a breach of the peace.
      (3)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of this section if such person has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if the property is posted.
      (4)   For purpose of this section, entry to a place during the time when
it is open to the general public is with consent.
   (E)   Unauthorized presence on school property prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any student who is under suspension,
expulsion, exemption, or other discipline, excluding such student from
attending school under the jurisdiction of the Pepin Area Schools Board of
Education, or for any person, not a student presently enrolled to attend school
under the jurisdiction of the Pepin Area School Board of Education or not an
employee of said Pepin Area School Board of Education or not a parent or
guardian of a student so enrolled or not an otherwise “authorized person” to be
present within any school building or upon any school grounds under the
jurisdiction of said School Board without having first secured authorization to
be there from the principal or other person in charge of said school building
or school grounds for any purpose previously authorized by the Board of
Education or its designee.
      (2)   Any person shall, upon request of the principal or other person in
charge of any school building or upon any school grounds under the jurisdiction
of said Pepin Area Schools Board, or upon request of any police officer,
display any written authorization to be present which such person may have, in
their possession or otherwise, explain such person’s presence or status as such
student, employee, parent, or guardian, or “authorized person” referred to in
division (E)(1) above.
      (3)   All entrances to the school buildings referred to in division (E)
(1) above shall be posted with a notice stating, “entry into school building by
unauthorized persons prohibited.” All school grounds referred to in division
(E)(1) above shall be posted with a notice stating, “entry upon school grounds
by unauthorized persons prohibited.”
   (F)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by any law enforcement
officer authorized to enforce the laws of the state and village ordinance.
   (G)   Penalties. The penalties under Wis. Stat. § 23.33(13)(a) or §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and are adopted by reference.
   (H)   Severability. If any provision of this section or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of this section that can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of
this section are severable.
   (I)   Effective date. This section shall be effective immediately upon
passage and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Trespass, see Wis. Stat. § 943.14
WEAPONS
§ 130.25 CARRYING CONCEALED KNIVES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall carry or wear concealed about his or her person or in an
automobile any cross knuckles or metal knuckles, or any bowie knife, dirk
knife, dagger, stiletto, or other device of the type commonly known as switch
knife, switch blade knife, spring blade knife, or push button knife.
(1999 Code, § 130.20) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause the
discharge of any missile from any firearm, including air rifles or other
weapon, in the village, unless express written permission, permitting the same,
shall have been given for a specific purpose and on a specific date by the
Chief of Police.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police denies or revokes a permit, this action shall
be final unless the applicant or permittee shall, within two days after the
receipt of notice of the denial or revocation, file with the Village Board a
written appeal. The Village Board shall, within 72 hours after the appeal is
filed, consider all the evidence in support of or against the action appealed
and render a decision either sustaining or reversing the denial or revocation.
The decision of the Village Board shall be final.
(1999 Code, § 130.21) (Ord. 58, passed 10-4-1954) Penalty, see §
130.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE OFFENSES
§ 130.40 POSSESSION OUTSIDE TAVERNS OR PICNIC AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages or
carry about an open container of intoxicating liquor or fermented malt
beverages outside a licensed tavern or off the premises of an established
picnic area where such possession and consumption is not prohibited. This
section shall not apply to any person or persons on private property with
permission of the owner or occupant of such property.
(1999 Code, § 130.35) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 110
§ 130.41 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION; OPEN CONTAINERS IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall consume any intoxicating liquor or fermented malt
beverages or have in his or her possession or control any open container of
intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages while in a vehicle parked on a
public thoroughfare or any public parking lot.
   (B)   No person shall possess or permit to be possessed in any moving or
parked vehicle under his or her control any open container of intoxicating
liquor or fermented malt beverages.
(1999 Code, § 130.36) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.42 PUBLIC INTOXICATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be found in any public place in the
village in such a state of intoxication as to disturb others, or unable, by
reason of his or her condition, to care for his or her own safety or the safety
of others.
(1999 Code, § 130.37) (Ord. 59, passed 10-4-1954) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.98 VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY FOR COSTS OF REPLACING DAMAGED PROPERTY.
   In addition to any penalty imposed for violation of this chapter, any person
who shall cause physical damage to or destroy any public property shall be
liable for the costs of replacing or repairing such damaged or destroyed
property. The parent or parents of any unemancipated minor child who violates §
130.06 of this chapter may also be held liable for the costs of replacing or
repairing such damaged or destroyed property in accordance with Wis. Stat. §
895.035.
(1999 Code, § 130.98) (Ord. 118, passed 10-9-1978)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1999 Code, § 130.99)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
153.   BUILDING CODE
CHAPTER 150: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
150.01   Definitions
   
150.02   Monthly parking fee
   
150.03   Mobile home park license required; application; fee
   
150.04   Licensee to furnish information on homes added to park
   
150.05   Remittance of parking fees
   
150.06   Exemptions
   
150.07   Parking of recreational vehicle units; permit requirements
   
150.08   Conflict with state law
§ 150.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The provisions of Wis. Admin. Code Ch. ATCP 125.01(1s)(b) and the
definitions therein are hereby adopted by reference.
(1999 Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970)
§ 150.02 MONTHLY PARKING FEE.
   There is hereby imposed on each occupied, mobile home (or manufactured home)
as defined by Wis. Admin. Code Ch. ATCP 125) located in the village, a monthly
parking fee. Such fees shall be paid to the Village Treasurer on or before the
tenth day of the month following the month for which such fees are due.
(1999 Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 71
§ 150.03 MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or operate upon property
owned or controlled by that person within the village a mobile home park
without having first secured a license therefor from the Village Clerk. The
application for such license shall be accompanied by a fee of $2 for each space
in the existing or proposed park, but not less than $25. The license shall
expire one year from the date of issuance. Such parks shall comply with Wis.
Admin. Code ATCP 125, which is hereby adopted by reference.
(1999 Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 LICENSEE TO FURNISH INFORMATION ON HOMES ADDED TO PARK.
   Licensees of mobile home parks and owners of land on which are parked any
occupied, non-exempt mobile homes shall furnish information to the Village
Clerk and Village Assessor on such homes added to their park or land within
five days after arrival of such homes on forms furnished by the Village Clerk.
(1999 Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 REMITTANCE OF PARKING FEES.
   Occupants or owners of non-exempt mobile homes parked outside of a mobile
home park shall remit such fees directly to the Village Treasurer as provided
in §
150.02 of this chapter. It shall be the full and complete responsibility of the
licensee of a mobile home park to collect such fees from each occupied, non-
exempt mobile home therein and to remit such fees to the Village Treasurer as
provided in §
150.02 of this chapter.
(1999 Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to touring or recreational type mobile homes,
if such housing unit is used primarily for tourists or vacationing purposes,
except as set forth in §
150.08 of this chapter. In the event a touring or recreational type mobile home
is used for primary housing while the occupier is gainfully employed in the
area, such housing unit shall be subject to assessment in same manner as
prescribed for primary housing type mobile homes.
(1999 Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970)
§ 150.07 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLE UNITS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Residents of the village desiring to park a guest’s recreational vehicle
(R.V.) unit on their premises in excess of five days shall obtain such
permission from the Village Clerk. Such authority, after consideration of
sanitation facilities, may at its discretion, issue a special permit not to
exceed nine days. Such permit shall be issued upon payment of the fee of $10,
and may not be renewed. Although street parking may allow motor vehicle
parking, an R.V. unit shall not be parked on such streets in excess of five
hours. The parking of any unoccupied R.V. unit in an accessory private garage
or building, or in a rear yard, is permitted; provided, no living quarters
shall be maintained or any business conducted in such unit while so parked or
stored. There shall be no permit required under this last provision regarding
the parking of an unoccupied R.V. unit.
(1999 Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970; Ord. 90-B, passed 5-9-1988)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 71
§ 150.08 CONFLICT WITH STATE LAW.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to conflict with state
laws or orders regulating mobile homes or mobile home parks.
(1999 Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 90, passed 5-4-1970)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Statutory authority
   
151.003   Purpose and intent
   
151.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.005   Interpretation
   
151.006   Jurisdiction
   
151.007   Definitions
   
151.008   Compliance with provisions required
   
151.009   Violations; failure to comply; enjoinment of violations
Zoning Areas and Map
   
151.020   Zoning areas established
   
151.021   Official Zoning Area Map
   
151.022   Area boundaries
Zoning Area Regulations
   
151.035   Application of land uses and minimum standards
   
151.036   Residential Area (R)
   
151.037   Commercial Area (C)
   
151.038   Low Impact Commercial Area (LIC)
   
151.039   Light Industrial Area (LI)
   
151.040   Agricultural Area (A)
General Regulations
   
151.055   Site restrictions
   
151.056   Use restrictions
   
151.057   Reduction in area; joint use prohibited
   
151.058   Unsafe buildings
   
151.059   Conditional uses
   
151.060   Signs
   
151.061   Nonconforming uses
   
151.062   Canopies and signs
   
151.063   Dumpster permits
   
151.064   Regulations governing excavations and openings
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.075   Administrative and enforcement agents; duties
   
151.076   Land use construction or remodeling permit; application; fees
   
151.077   Hearing appeals
   
151.078   Amendments and changes
   
151.079   Fees for variance or conditional use request
   
151.080   Public inspection of zoning map and Zoning Code text
Greater River Road Preservation
   
151.095   Statutory authorization
   
151.096   Finding of fact
   
151.097   Statement of purpose
   
151.098   Title
   
151.099   Jurisdiction
   
151.100   Compliance with town and village licensing and zoning ordinances
   
151.101   Administration
   
151.102   Regulations supersede other county land use regulations
   
151.103   Interpretation
   
151.104   Definitions
   
151.105   Permitted uses
   
151.106   Conditional uses
   
151.107   Special prohibitions
   
151.108   Exhibits
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Village of Pepin Revised Comprehensive
Zoning Code.
(1999 Code, § 151.01) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.002 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the authority granted by Wis. Stat. §§ 61.35 and 62.23,
the village ordains these zoning regulations.
(1999 Code, § 151.02) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements adopted to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the
village.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the general intent of this chapter to:
         (a)   Regulate and restrict the lot size and the use of all
structures, lands, and surface waters;
         (b)   Regulate and restrict lot coverage, population distribution and
density, and the size and location of all structures as to lessen congestion in
and promote the safety and efficiency of the streets and highways;
         (c)   Secure safety from fire, flooding, panic, and other dangers;
         (d)   Provide adequate light, air, sanitation, and drainage;
         (e)   Prevent overcrowding;
         (f)   Avoid undue population concentration;
         (g)   Facilitate the adequate provision of public facilities and
utilities;
         (h)   Stabilize and protect property values;
         (i)   Further the appropriate use of land and conservation of natural
resources;
         (j)   Preserve and promote the beauty of the community; and
         (k)   Implement the community’s general plan components.
      (2)   It is further intended to provide for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and to provide penalties for its violation.
(1999 Code, § 151.03) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter shall not repeal, impair, or modify private covenants or public
ordinances, except that it shall apply whenever it imposes more severe
restrictions on land use.
(1999 Code, § 151.04) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.005 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum
requirements and shall be liberally constructed in favor of the village and
shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power by the state
statutes.
(1999 Code, § 151.05) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.006 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all the land and water area
within the corporate limits of the village.
(1999 Code, § 151.06) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural number; and the plural number includes the singular number. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not optional.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use of a detached structure subordinate to the
principal use of a structure, land, or water and located on the same lot or
parcel serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal structure.
   ALLEY. A special public right-of-way affording only secondary access to
abutting properties.
   BASEMENT. The portion of any structure located partly below the average
adjoining lot grade.
   BASEMENT DWELLING. A basement used for dwelling purposes shall be
constructed sufficiently large to support a dwelling above ground with at least
three rooms on the first floor. The dwelling above ground is to be completed
three years from the date the basement was started.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals or
lodging are regularly furnished by prearrangement for compensation for four or
more persons not members of a family, but not exceeding 12 persons and not open
to transient customers.
   BUFFER ZONE. Extra side yard required between multi-family dwelling. Twenty
feet plus regular allowance to a single-family residence property line to be
only green space, not driveways or for parking.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
equipment, machinery, or materials.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average grade level at front
property line of the lot to the highest point of the building’s roof.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection,
provided that the corner of such intersection shall have an angle of 135
degrees or less, measured on the lot side.
   DWELLING. A detached building designed for use exclusively as a residence or
sleeping place, having a full basement or poured concrete slab under the main
dwelling structure at or near lot grade level. Only dwellings of permanent
construction shall be constructed, which shall, when completed, be suitable for
habitation. The following change applies to any or all new dwellings
constructed after February 1, 2016. A single story dwelling shall have a
foundation footprint of not less than 800 square feet. A DWELLING does not
include boarding or lodging houses, motels, hotels, tents, cabins, or mobile
homes or travel trailers or motor homes or campers.
   DWELLING FLOOR AREA. One or more floors devoted to living space, including
enclosed porches and basement but excluding garages and unfinished attics.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed as a unit for occupancy by not
more than one family for living purposes.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services provided by public and private utilities
necessary for the exercise of the principal use or service of the principal
structure. These services include underground, surface, or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, sanitary sewerage, storm sewer drainage, and
television cables to serve individual lots, communication systems, and
accessories thereto, such as poles, towers, wires, mains, drains, vaults,
culverts, laterals, sewers, pipes, catch basins, water storage tanks, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, pumps, lift
stations, and hydrants, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. Any number of persons related by blood, adoption, or marriage, not
to exceed four persons not related, living together in one dwelling as a single
housekeeping entity.
   FLOODPLAIN. Land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
hereafter covered by floods including, but not limited to, the regional flood.
   FRONT YARD. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the front lot
line and the nearest part of the main building, excluding uncovered steps.
   FRONTAGE. The smallest dimension of a lot abutting a public street measured
along the street line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. Any accessory building or space for the storage of private
property.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, other than a private or storage
garage, where motor vehicles are equipped, repaired, serviced, hired, sold, or
stored. It is the intent to exclude vehicles for dismantling for use of parts.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation conducted in a place of residence only
by members of the family living in the residence. Not more than 25% of the
dwelling floor area shall be devoted to the business.
   JUNK YARD. An area consisting of buildings, structures, or premises where
junk, waste, and discarded or salvage materials are bought, sold, exchanged,
stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including automobile wrecking
yards, house wrecking and structural steel materials, and equipment yards, but
not including the purchase or storage of used furniture and household
equipment.
   LUCR. Land use-construction-remodel permit.
   LIVING ROOMS. All rooms within a dwelling except closets, foyers, storage
areas, utility rooms, and bathrooms.
   LOADING AREA. A complete off-street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading and unloading of freight carriers, having adequate ingress and egress
to a public street or alley.
   LOT. A parcel of land having frontage on a public street, occupied by a
principle structure or use and sufficient in size to meet the lot width, lot
frontage, lot area, yard, parking area, and other open space provisions of this
chapter.
   LOT LINES AND AREA. The peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land and the
total area lying within such boundaries.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the
specified street yard.
   MANUFACTURED (MODULAR) HOMES. Identified with a red plastic sticker, called
a “Wisconsin Insignia” imprinted with the outline of the state. It will usually
be affixed to the electrical panel, vanity base cabinet, or kitchen cabinet.
   MOBILE HOME. Identified with a metal rectangular label affixed to the rear
of each full or half unit.
   MOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached, or detached sleeping units for
the accommodation of transient guests.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. Four or more dwelling units.
   NONCONFORMING USES OR STRUCTURES. Any structure, land, or water lawfully
used, occupied, or erected at the time of the effective date of this chapter or
amendments thereto, which does not conform to the regulations of this chapter
or amendments thereto. Any such structure conforming in respect to use but not
in respect to frontage width, height, area, yard, parking, loading, or distance
requirements shall be considered a nonconforming structure and not a
nonconforming use.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 180 square feet in area either
enclosed or open for the parking of a motor vehicle, having adequate ingress
and egress to a public street or alley.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. Includes all abutting property owners, all property
owners 100 feet in all directions, and all property owners of opposite
frontage.
   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the main building and the rear lot line, the depth of which is the
least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of such main building.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the
nearest point of a building or any projection thereof, excluding uncovered
steps.
   SIDE YARD. A yard between the main building and side lot line, extending
from the front yard or front lot line were no front yard is required, to the
rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD is measured horizontally from
the nearest point of the side lot line to the nearest point of the main
building.
   STRUCTURE. Any erection or construction, such as buildings, towers, masts,
poles, booms, signs, decorations, carports, machinery, and equipment.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a structure,
such as foundations, bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
   TRAILERS. A portable vehicle designed and used for temporary sleeping
purposes while its occupants are engaged in the pastime of camping.
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities, such as water wells, water and
sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and communication
transmission lines, electrical power stations, telephone and telegraph
exchanges, microwave radio relays, and gas regulation stations, but not
including sewage disposal plants, municipal incinerators, warehouses, shops,
and storage yards.
   VARIANCE. In a situation where strict application of this chapter would
result in a practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, modification may be
granted by the Planning Commission following a public hearing with a Class I
notice.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except for vegetation. The street and rear
yards extend the full width of the lot.
(1999 Code, § 151.07) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.008 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure, land, or water shall hereafter be used and no structure or
part thereof shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a LUCR, and
without full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable local, county, and state regulations.
(1999 Code, § 151.08) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009 VIOLATIONS; FAILURE TO COMPLY; ENJOINMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or use any structure, land, or water
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with any standard of this
chapter or with any conditions or qualifications placed upon issuance of a
permit or granting of a variance.
   (C)   In case of any violation, the Village Board or Planning Commission may
institute appropriate action or proceeding to enjoin a violation of this
chapter.
(1999 Code, § 151.09) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
ZONING AREAS AND MAP
§ 151.020 ZONING AREAS ESTABLISHED.
   Five zoning areas are provided as follows:
   (A)   Residential Area (R);
   (B)   Commercial Area (C);
   (C)   Light Industrial Area (LI);
   (D)   Agricultural Area (A); and
   (E)   Low Impact Commercial (LIC).
(1999 Code, § 151.20)
§ 151.021 OFFICIAL ZONING AREA MAP.
   The official zoning area map is an integral part of this Zoning Code. The
single official copy of the map entitled “Village of Pepin Official Zoning Area
Map,” together with a copy of this Zoning Code, shall be available for public
inspection. The map shall be certified by the Village President and attested by
the Village Clerk. Any changes in zoning area boundaries shall be recorded on
the map. No such change shall be effective until so recorded and until a duly
certified and attested certificate describing
the change is filed with the map.
(1999 Code, § 151.21) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.022 AREA BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The area boundaries are either streets or alley, unless otherwise
shown, and where the designation on the zoning map indicates that the various
areas are approximately bounded by a street or alley line, such street or alley
line shall be construed to be the area boundary line.
   (B)   Where the area boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the area
boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines, and where the designations o the
map are approximately bounded by lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed
to be the boundary of the area.
   (C)   In unsubdivided property, the area boundary shown on the map shall be
determined by use of the scale shown on such map.
(1999 Code, § 151.22) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
ZONING AREA REGULATIONS
§ 151.035 APPLICATION OF LAND USES AND MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The land uses and minimum standards set forth in this subchapter apply to
the area delineations on the zoning map.
(1999 Code, § 151.35) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.036 RESIDENTIAL AREA (R).
   (A)   Intent. The R Area is intended to provide a quiet, pleasant living
area protected from traffic congestion and incompatible land uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   One-, two-, and three-unit dwellings;
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   One private garage and accessory building compatible in size and
aesthetics to the area in which it will exist;
      (4)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (5)   Uses customarily incident to any of the above uses, provided that
no such use generates traffic or noise that would create a public or private
nuisance; and
      (6)   Essential services.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
      (2)   Minimum side yard:
         (a)   Principal building: six feet; and
         (b)   Accessory building: three feet on each side.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: average of building on either side or
20 feet, whichever is less.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Principal building: 20 feet; and
         (b)   Accessory building: six feet. Rear setbacks changed to a 20-foot
setback for ingress/egress entrance to a garage; if a blank wall faces the
alley, a six-foot setback is in place.
      (5)   Minimum lot size on all properties not yet surveyed into lots/
building sites shall have a minimum square footage of 6,050 feet per lot.
      (6)   Minimum lot width (measured at rear of front yard): 55 feet.
      (7)   Maximum lot coverage (for all structures): 50%.
      (8)   Parking, off-street residential: two spaces per family.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses:
      (1)   Four or more unit dwellings with two off-street parking spaces per
unit. No individual garbage containers allowed; must be provided by building
owner or management;
      (2)   Churches, schools, libraries, hospitals, community centers, water
pumping facilities, and utility service structures;
      (3)   Municipal office buildings;
      (4)   Telephone and power utility switching buildings and stations;
microwave and radio towers; television satellite receivers. television
satellite receivers shall not be subject to public hearing, but shall require
the review and approval of the Planning Commission, shall require a LUCR if
approved by the Planning Commission, and shall be subject to a LUCR fee;
      (5)   Mobile home parks; and
      (6)   Basement dwellings.
   (E)   Percolation test. The R Area is subject to a percolation test.
(1999 Code, § 151.36) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. 123-A, passed 4-1-
1985; Ord. passed 3-10-2014; Ord. passed 3-13-2017) Penalty, see §
151.999
Cross-reference:
   Dumpsters, see §
151.063
§ 151.037 COMMERCIAL AREA (C).
   (A)   Intent. The C Area is intended to provide an area for the business and
commercial needs of the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Retail and wholesale sales;
      (2)   Professional offices;
      (3)   Personal service providers;
      (4)   Financial institutions;
      (5)   Lodging establishments;
      (6)   Parking lots;
      (7)   Clubs, fraternal organizations, and lodges, whether operated for a
profit or not;
      (8)   Food service establishments, and properly licensed liquor stores,
taverns, and bars;
      (9)   Temporary structures;
      (10)   Automotive, farm implement, and marine sales, service, repair, and
storage;
      (11)   Residential use of commercial buildings, when major use is
commercial;
      (12)   Multi-family housing consisting of two or more dwelling units with
two off-street parking spaces per unit with conditional use. No individual
garbage containers allowed; must be provided by building owner or management;
      (13)   Other lawful uses similar to or customarily incident to any of the
above; and
      (14)   Campgrounds: a designated location for tents and for a vehicular
portable structure designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, and
vacation use, which does not fall within the definition of a mobile home.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
      (2)   Minimum side yard:
         (a)   Fireproof construction: six feet; and
         (b)   Non-fireproof construction: nine feet.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: none.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard setback: six feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   Fireproof construction: 25 feet; and
         (b)   Non-fireproof construction: 45 feet.
      (6)   Parking:
         (a)   One space for every 200 square feet of floor area; and
         (b)   Places for public gathering: one space per five seats;
sufficient space so that no streets or alleys need be blocked.
   (D)   Exception. A 12 block area which includes blocks 0, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14,
15, 16, 20, 21, N and X to be known as the Central Section which does not
require any setbacks. Any construction must meet with current state building
codes and current ordinance. Other commercial locations will be under the
updated zoning/building ordinance with a six-foot setback.
(1999 Code, § 151.37) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
Penalty, see §
151.999
Cross-reference:
   Dumpsters, see §
151.063
§ 151.038 LOW IMPACT COMMERCIAL AREA (LIC).
   Low Impact Commercial activities would include and be similar to those
listed below. A list of activities is intended to be illustrative of the types
uses, which will be considered by the Village Board to be Low Impact Commercial
uses, but is not intended to be an exhaustive list of such activities. Said Low
Impact Commercial zoning designation may be applied to any parcel which abuts
one or more parcels which are zoned residential.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following are permitted uses:
      (1)   Professional offices;
      (2)   Personal service providers;
      (3)   Financial institutions;
      (4)   Lodging establishments;
      (5)   Low volume and specialty retail sales;
      (6)   Limited food service (see minimum standards); and
      (7)   Other lawful uses similar or customarily incident to any of the
foregoing.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. The following are prohibited uses:
      (1)   Major retail sales establishments over 1,200 square feet display
area: department, hardware, appliance, furniture and grocery stores,
pharmacies, fruit, vegetable, meat, and fish market;
      (2)   Convenience stores;
      (3)   Video sales and rental;
      (4)   Video arcades, theaters, and dance halls;
      (5)   Sales, repair, painting, or storage of automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, recreational vehicles, boats, and farm implements;
      (6)   Sales of gasoline or alcohol;
      (7)   Fast food or full service restaurants, or drive-ins;
      (8)   Outdoor sales;
      (9)   Outdoor entertainment: music and dancing (except for occasional
celebrations: three maximum per year);
      (10)   Outdoor recreation: miniature golf, and go-carts;
      (11)   Warehouse and storage space rental;
      (12)   Clubs, fraternal organizations, and lodges, whether operated for
profit or not; and
      (13)   Any other use which is deemed objectionable to the quiet enjoyment
of owners of adjacent residential property.
   (C)   Minimum standards. Minimum standards are those listed for residential,
with the following additional minimum standards:
      (1)   New buildings are to be aesthetically similar to those in the area;
      (2)   Space for off-street parking for five cars per building;
      (3)   Residential use in part or all of the property in the low impact
zone is allowed;
      (4)   Business signs in the low impact commercial zone allowed: signs are
permitted in the low impact commercial zone subject to the recommendations of
the Planning Commission and approval of the Village Board.
         (a)   Signs that are flat on the building with a maximum of 32 square
feet per sign per business.
         (b)   Signs protruding from the building with a maximum of six square
feet in size with a maximum of 3.6 feet of distance from the building.
         (c)   Freestanding signs are permitted when building is setback 20
feet from the lot line. They are not to exceed six feet in height or total of
24 square feet.
      (5)   Signs are permitted in the Low Impact Commercial Zone as proscribed
in §
151.060;
      (6)   Retail business: no more than 1,200 square feet for display area in
each building. No exterior display;
      (7)   Food service in low impact commercial shall be ancillary to another
business, serving such things as cold sandwiches, soup, pastries, and ice
cream. No grills, griddles, or grease fryers. A maximum of 600 square feet
allowed indoors, including kitchen and a maximum of 300 square feet of outdoor
seating. No alcohol allowed;
      (8)   Lighting for businesses in low impact commercial: no flashing signs
and all lighting be indirect and non-intrusive with sign lighting being turned
off between 10:00 p.m and 6:00 a.m.;
      (9)   There will be no building in low impact commercial over 4,000
square feet; and
      (10)   Any one building in approved Low Impact Commercial will be limited
to four operators, partners, or employees.
   (D)   Application. Application of the Low Impact Commercial Zone and changes
from other zoning designations to Low Impact Commercial shall be accomplished
using the same procedures as presently set forth in the state statutes
concerning such requests.
(Ord. 151.37(a), passed 11-10-2003; Ord. 151.37(a), passed 11-8-2004) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.039 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AREA (LI).
   (A)   Generally. This LI Area provides land for all industrial uses
including those industries which normally include the use of heavy machinery
and may require outdoor storage areas for raw materials and/or finished
products, provided that such storage is enclosed by a suitable screening fence.
Residential, commercial, and public uses are prohibited except that a dwelling
unit may be provided for a caretaker or superintendent if the industrial use
requires constant supervision. All uses proposed for this area are conditional
and subject to the provisions of §
151.059 of this chapter.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. The erection and operation of a slaughterhouse,
junkyard, tannery, glue factory, or rendering plant, or any other establishment
with offensive odors, noises, or dust, shall be forbidden within the village
limits. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission upon special
request and after a hearing before the Planning Commission and upon proof being
presented to the Planning Commission that such establishment will not be to the
detriment of the best interests of the people of the village.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Maximum building height: conditional.
      (2)   Minimum side yard:
         (a)   Principal buildings: 20 feet each side; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings: five feet on each side.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet.
      (4)    Minimum rear yard setback: 30 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot width (measured at rear of front yard): 100 feet.
      (6)   Parking: one space per three employees; sufficient space so that no
streets or alleys need be blocked.
(1999 Code, § 151.38) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.040 AGRICULTURAL AREA (A).
   (A)   Intent. The A Area provides exclusively for crop raising.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Only the following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Forestry;
      (2)   Cash cropping;
      (3)   Green houses and nurseries;
      (4)   Orchards and truck farming; and
      (5)   Utility service lines for telephone, electricity, and television
cable and their necessary utility appurtenances.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses:
      (1)   Churches, schools, community parks and recreation areas, public and
semi-public buildings, water pumping and sewage disposal facilities, power
stations (provided they are enclosed by an eight-foot or more protective
fence), golf courses, and seasonal campgrounds;
      (2)   Single-family residences; and
      (3)   All commercial uses allowed in the C Area.
   (D)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   Maximum building height:
         (a)   Residential structures: 35 feet; and
         (b)   Other structures: none.
      (2)   Minimum side yard:
         (a)   Principal buildings: 20 feet on each side; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings: five feet on each side.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 30 feet.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard setback: 50 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot area per family (residential): as required by the state
administrative rule for operation of septic fields.
(1999 Code, § 151.39) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.055 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is held
unsuitable for such use or structure by reason of flooding, concentrated run-
off, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation, unfavorable
topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength, erosion susceptibility,
or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety, prosperity,
aesthetics, and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   All lots shall abut upon a public street, and each lot shall have a
minimum street frontage as described for each zoning area.
   (C)   Setback, lot size, and other dimensional requirements applicable to
the various zoning districts are indicated on the official zoning district map.
   (D)   Accessory buildings shall not occupy more than the prescribed required
area for the rear yard. Any accessory building projected forward of the rear
building line of the principal building shall satisfy the same yard
requirements as the principal building.
   (E)   In each quadrant of every street intersection, there shall be
designated a vision clearance triangle bounded where the traveled portion of
the street meets and a line connecting them 35 feet from their intersection.
Within this triangle, no object shall be allowed above a height of two and one-
half feet above the street if it obstructs the view across the triangle. This
section shall not apply to tree trunks, posts, or wire fences.
   (F)   No LUCR shall be issued for a lot which abuts a public street
dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width and located on that side
thereof from which the required dedication has not been secured.
(1999 Code, § 151.50) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.056 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Only those principal uses specifically for an area, their essential
services, and the following uses shall be permitted in that area.
   (B)   Conditional uses and their accessory uses are considered as special
uses requiring review, public hearing, and approval by the Village Planning
Commission.
(1999 Code, § 151.51) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057 REDUCTION IN AREA; JOINT USE PROHIBITED.
   Reduction or joint use of a lot, yard, parking area, building area, or other
space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of
this chapter. No part of any lot, yard, parking area, or other space required
for a structure or use shall be used for any other structure or use.
(1999 Code, § 151.52) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.058 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector is hereby designated and authorized to act for
the Village Board, with directions from the Village Board, under the provisions
of Wis. Stat. § 66.0413, relating to the razing of buildings and all acts
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto, except as to the assessment and
collection of the special tax therein provided.
   (B)   Any buildings or building or portion thereof, including existing
buildings, buildings in process of erection, or being altered, if found to be
dangerous to persons or property, or unsafe for the purposes for which it is to
be used, or in danger of fire due to defects in the construction, or dangerous
for use because of insufficient means of egress in case of fire or which
violates the provision of this chapter due to removal, decay, deterioration, or
falling off of anything, appliance or device, or which has become damaged by
the elements or fire of more than 50% of its value, may be condemned by the
Building Inspector. In any of the aforesaid cases, the Building Inspector may
serve notice in writing on the owner, reputed owner, tenant, or person in
charge of such building or premises, or post a notice in a conspicuous place on
the outside wall of such building, setting forth what must be done to make such
building safe. The person receiving such notice shall commence within 48 hours
thereafter to make such changes or alterations set forth in such notice and
diligently proceed with such work or demolish the building. Where the public
safety requires immediate action, the Building Inspector shall enter such
premises with such assistance as may be necessary to cause the building or
structure to be made safe or to be removed, or in any case, if the orders of
the Building Inspector are not complied with after due notice and within a
reasonable time, the Board may order the Building Inspector to proceed with the
work of making the premises safe by making the necessary repairs or demolish
the unsafe building or part thereof, and the expense of such work may be
recovered by the village in an action against the owner or tenant. If the owner
or tenant of any such building or premises is dissatisfied with the decision of
the Building Inspector as to the unsafe character thereof or as to the methods
of correction, the question may be referred to the Village Board whose decision
shall be final.
(1999 Code, § 151.53) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 151.059 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The Village Board may authorize a conditional use permit (c.c. to
Zoning Administrator) for conditional uses specified in this chapter after
review and a public hearing before the Planning Commission, provided such uses
are in accordance with the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Application for conditional use permits shall be submitted to the
Village Clerk on forms provided by the Clerk and shall be accompanied by a plan
showing the location, size, and shape of the lot(s) involved and of any
proposed structures, and the existing and proposed use of each structure and
lot. The cost of land use permits shall be established by the Village Board.
   (C)   The Village Planning Commission may be requested to review the site,
existing and proposed structures, architectural plans, neighboring uses,
parking areas, driveway locations, highway access, traffic generation and
circulation, drainage, sewerage and water systems, and proposed operation.
   (D)   The use of permanent construction for which the conditional use permit
was within one year (12 months) of the issuance of the permit, unless otherwise
stated on the permit, or the permit is rescinded.
   (E)   Conditions related to landscaping, architectural design, type of
construction, construction commencement and completion dates, sureties,
lighting, fencing, operational control, hours of operation, traffic
circulation, deed restrictions, access restrictions, increased yards, and
parking requirements, may be required by the Village Board upon its finding by
the Planning Commission that such conditions are necessary to fulfill the
purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (F)   Conditional uses shall comply with all provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The following are conditional uses:
      (1)   In the Residential Area (R):
         (a)   Four or more units per building;
         (b)   Public and institutional buildings;
         (c)   Utility buildings;
         (d)   Mobile home parks; and
         (e)   Basement dwelling.
      (2)   In the Commercial Area (C):
      (3)   In the Industrial Area (LI): all industrial uses.
      (4)   In the Agricultural Area (A):
         (a)   Churches, schools, community parks and recreation areas, public
and institutional buildings, water pumping and sewage disposal facilities, and
power substations (protected by an eight-foot or more protective fence); and
         (b)   Single-family residences subject to the same lot size
requirements and conditions as the R Area.
(1999 Code, § 151.54) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.060 SIGNS.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   No sign shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, converted, or structurally altered without a LUCR except
those signs described in this chapter that do not require a LUCR, being in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Signs in compliance with the requirements of the size and location
requirements as described herein after submission of a LUCR application shall
be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   A decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the
Planning Commission. These requirements may be waived by the Planning
Commission upon special request and after a hearing before the Planning
Commission and upon proof being presented to the Planning Commission that such
signage will not be to the detriment of the best interests of the people of the
village.
      (4)   A decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the
Village Board.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SIGN. Any object, device, display, structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors, fastened to the ground or not, including a banner intended to be hung
either with or without a frame, that is used to advertise, identify, display,
direct, or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization,
business, product, service, event, or location by any means, including words,
letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination, or
projected images.
      SIGN, ABANDONED. Any sign, sign message, or sign frame and its supporting
equipment that is in disrepair, no longer in use by the occupying business,
nonfunctioning, not in compliance with village or state electrical code, or a
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, activity, or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold
or offered upon the premises where such sign is located.
      SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign advertising a business not at that location.
      SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign that advertises contractors or others
associated with the construction or remodeling of a residential or commercial
building.
      SIGN, MURAL. Any type of display or artistic endeavor painted on or
otherwise affixed directly to any side(s) of a building or structure that
includes a text or business logo that is intended for advertising purposes.
      SIGN, NONCONFORMING. Any sign that does not comply with the terms of this
chapter.
      SIGN, OPINION. A sign that expresses non-commercial opinions about issues
generally. Political signs left up after the election are not considered
opinion signs.
      SIGN, POLITICAL. Any sign urging the election or defeat of any candidate
seeking any elective office or urging the passage or defeat of any ballot
measure, this definition does not include any billboard owned or maintained by
a commercial firm or advertising company.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign that is to be displayed only during business hours
which is not permanently attached to the ground or a building and is of an A-
frame, hinged or sandwich type design. For the purposes of this chapter,
"permanently attached" includes such means of attachment as bolts, concrete
footings or foundations, or similar such devices.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE. An on-premises sign serving to designate the location
and/or direction of property for sale, lease, or rent, an open house event for
said property, including for a residential or commercial development.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE DIRECTIONAL SIGN. An off-premises sign indicating the
presence of a nearby property listed for sale, lease, or rent, an open house
event for said property, including for a residential or commercial development.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign that is intended to be displayed only for a short
time which is not permanently attached to the ground or a building and which
does not fit the definition of a portable sign. For purposes of this chapter,
"permanently attached" includes such means of attachment as bolts, concrete
footings or foundations or similar such devices. All signs on wheels are
temporary signs. Inflatable and banner signs shall be considered temporary
signs.
   (C)   Residential and Agricultural Areas. All signs are prohibited in the
residential and agricultural areas except the following which do not require a
LUCR:
      (1)   Signs for home based business establishment, not to exceed 20
square feet;
      (2)   Real estate signs, not to exceed eight square feet, in area which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon which such signs are
temporarily located;
      (3)   Name, occupation, and warning signs, not to exceed two square feet,
located on the premises;
      (4)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable, or religious institutions,
not to exceed 24 square feet, in area located on the premises;
      (5)   Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection
affixed flat against a structure, not to exceed eight square feet;
      (6)   Official signs, such as traffic-control, parking restrictions,
information, and notices; and
      (7)   Opinion signs, not to exceed 24 square feet.
   (D)   Commercial, Low Impact Commercial, and Industrial Areas. Business-
related signs are permitted in the Commercial, Low Impact Commercial and
Industrial Areas subject to a LUCR application and the requirements described
below.
      (1)   Signs that are flat on the building with a maximum of 32 square
feet per sign, and a maximum number of signs for each wall space such that the
total signage area shall not exceed 25% of the area of the total wall space
exclusive of window and door areas;
      (2)   Signs protruding from the building with a maximum of six square
feet in size with a maximum of 3.6 feet of distance from the building;
      (3)   Freestanding signs are permitted when a building is set back 20
feet from the lot line. They are not to exceed six feet in height or a total of
24 square feet. There shall be a minimum spacing of ten feet between signs;
      (4)   A commercial sign and its location, once approved by a LUCR, can
have periodic changes to shape and/or language without further review if they
do not exceed 24 square feet in size or contain lighting. This provision does
not apply if the business changes at that location;
      (5)   Items posted in the windows of commercial establishments are not
considered signs for the purposes of this chapter and do not need a LUCR; and
      (6)   Signs with flashing, strobing, or exterior lighting will need
Planning Commission approval.
   (E)   Temporary signs. Only the temporary signs or banners not to exceed 20
square feet that are listed below are allowed without a LUCR. Other temporary
signs conforming to the appropriate size and location requirements are allowed
after application through a LUCR, and when authorized by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (1)   Temporary signs: (not to exceed 20 square feet) advertising on-
premises sale of agricultural products in the Agricultural Area;
      (2)   Real estate signs: not to exceed eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon which such signs are
temporarily located;
      (3)   Political signs: during the election cycle, and up to one week
after election date;
      (4)   Directional real estate signs: (not more than two directional signs
total per property, advertised) with permission of the property owner where the
sign is located;
      (5)   Directional garage sale signs, not to exceed four square feet with
permission of the property owner where the sign is located;
      (6)   Holiday and celebration signs;
      (7)   Traffic control and other village regulatory and information signs;
      (8)   On-premises signs advertising garage sales, not to exceed 20 square
feet;
      (9)   Temporary signs (not to exceed 20 square feet) advertising on-
premises sale of homeowner personal property in the residential area;
      (10)   Construction signs during construction activities and up to 30
days following completion;
      (11)   Commercial portable signs when displayed during hours of business
operation;
      (12)   Temporary signs and directional signs for nonprofit organization
functions, and other community events.
      (13)   Up to two portable directional off premises business signs not to
exceed eight square feet are allowed on private property during business hours
for businesses located within two miles of the village limits.
   (F)   Enforcement and administration. The Zoning Administrator shall have
primary responsibility for the enforcement of these regulations and the
issuance of LUCR permits as required herein.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
inspect the erection of signs and ensure that all signs are in compliance with
these requirements.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that a sign is not in
compliance with this section and the sign owner fails to comply with, or
disagrees with, the Zoning Administrator’s analysis, the issue shall be brought
to the Planning Commission for review as outlined in division (A) of this
section.
      (3)   In addition to the penalties provided pursuant to §
151.999, unauthorized signs not in compliance with the provisions of this
section that are located within the right-of-way may be removed by the village.
Any sign not recovered by the sign owner within seven days after removal may be
disposed of by the village.
   (G)   Existing signs. Signs lawfully existing at the time of adoption or
amendment of this section may be continued although the use, size, or location
does not conform with the provisions of this section. However, it shall be
deemed a nonconforming use or structure, and the provisions of §
151.061 of this chapter shall apply.
(1999 Code, § 151.55) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984; Res. 2024-0819, passed 8-
20-2024) Penalty, see §
151.999
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances enumerated, see §
92.03
§ 151.061 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Present uses of buildings, signs, and premises may be continued even
though they do not conform to the restrictions of this chapter. However,
structural repairs or alterations of such buildings and signs; or premises
shall not during its life exceed 50% of their equalized value at the time they
become nonconforming, unless a building, sign, or premises conforming to this
chapter results. A nonconforming use that is abandoned for one year shall be
discontinued permanently.
   (B)   Lot size will be determined by uses and structures existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter. A structure that is destroyed by fire or
natural disaster will be permitted to be rebuilt on the existing lot, provided
such construction shall be completed within one year (12 months).
(1999 Code, § 151.56) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.062 CANOPIES AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CANOPIES AND AWNINGS. A permanent structure without walls for the purpose
of shielding driveways, sidewalks, or service areas from the elements. CANOPIES
are composed of solid materials, such as metal and/or wood. AWNINGS may have a
metal or wood frame, but typically have surfaces composed of canvas, vinyl, or
similar flexible material.
   (B)   Districts permitted. Canopies and awnings are permitted in all zoning
districts.
    (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   Planning Commission approval required. All canopies and awnings
shall require Planning Commission approval. Properties located, which overlay
districts, may require a site review.
      (2)   Structural requirements.
         (a)   The structural support of all canopies and awnings shall be
approved by the Zoning Administrator and shall meet the State Building Code.
         (b)   All frames and supports of all canopies and awnings shall be of
metal and designed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than 40 pounds per
square foot of area and shall be constructed to receive dead loads as required
by State Building Code.
         (c)   Canopies and awnings shall be attached to a building and no
ground mounted supports shall be placed within a public right-of-way.
      (3)   Height. All canopies and awnings shall be constructed and created
so that the lowest portion thereof shall not be less than eight feet above nor
greater than 20 feet above the level of the sidewalk or public thoroughfare.
      (4)   Setback. Canopies and awnings shall comply with all setbacks
applicable to the principal structure, except, however, in Commercial Zoned
Areas, all canopies and awnings may extend to the side property lines and may
extend out from the building facade up to one-foot of the back of the curb.
(Ord. passed 9-9-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.063 DUMPSTER PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. A dumpster permit is required for the placement of any
dumpster on streets, alleys, or sidewalks. A dumpster may be placed with the
approval of the Village Zoning Administrator and the Chief of Police. A
dumpster permit application may be obtained from the Village Clerk’s office,
the Zoning Administrator, the Chief of Police, or the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DUMPSTER. Any portable container with minimum capacity of one cubic yard
used or designed for collection of, transportation of, or disposal of solid
waste, or the like. DUMPSTERS shall include, but not limited to, roll-off
containers, collection bins, or tubs.
      REFUSE CONTAINER. A portable container with minimum capacity of one cubic
yard designed for collection, transportation, disposal, or storage of solid
waste or personal property.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   Each dumpster or refuse container shall have posted thereon the
name, address, and phone number of the lessor or owner of said dumpster or
refuse container.
      (2)   Each dumpster or refuse container shall be equipped with
reflectorized tape or other reflector devices adequate to warn others of its
presence during night hours.
      (3)   No dumpster or refuse container shall be placed in a moving lane of
traffic.
      (4)   Each permittee shall comply with any order of the Chief of Police
to remove any dumpster or refuse container should the placement or location of
the dumpster or refuse container constitute a safety hazard or nuisance.
      (5)   No dumpster or refuse container shall be placed so as to interfere
with public works construction being performed by the village.
      (6)   Applicant shall be responsible for the dumpster and any materials
placed within the dumpster. Any damage caused by the dumpster or its contents
must be cleaned and or restored to pre-event conditions by the permittee upon
the close of the event. If the permittee fails to fully clean or restore the
area to the satisfaction of the Village Zoning Administrator or Street
Superintendent, the Street Superintendent will restore the area and the
dumpster permit deposit will be forfeited. The village reserves the right to
revoke the dumpster permit without notice.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014; Ord. passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.064 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXCAVATIONS AND OPENINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. At times, it is necessary to excavate streets, street right-
of-way, alleys, sidewalks, or public ways in order to repair or replace
utilities or for new construction.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   No openings in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public ways shall
be permitted when the ground is frozen, except where it is deemed necessary by
the Street Superintendent.
      (2)   In any opening or excavation, all paving, or ballasting materials
shall be removed with the least possible loss of or injury to surfacing
materials and together with the excavated materials from the opening shall be
placed so as to cause the least practicable inconvenience to the public and
permit free flow of water along gutters.
      (3)   Every opening and excavation shall be enclosed with sufficient
barriers. Sufficient warning lights shall be lit from sunrise to sunset. Such
lights shall be spaced so as to give adequate warning of the existence of the
opening and of piled excavated materials. No open flame warning pots shall be
used. Except by special permission from the Street Superintendent, no trench
shall be excavated more than 250 feet in advance of pipe or conduit laying nor
left unfilled more than 500 feet where pipe or conduit has been laid.
      (4)   In opening any public street, alley, sidewalk, way, easement, or
ground, the paving materials, sand, gravel, and earth or other material moved
or penetrated, and all surface monuments or hubs must be removed and replaced
as nearly as possible in their original condition or position and the same
relation to the remainder as before. Any excavated material which in the
opinion of the Street Superintendent is not suitable for refilling shall be
replaced with approved backfill material. All rubbish shall be immediately
removed.
      (5)   The permittee shall notify the Street Superintendent and all public
and private individuals, firms, and corporations affected by the work to be
done at least 24 hours before such work is to commence. The Street
Superintendent shall also be notified at least four hours prior to backfilling
or restoring the surface.
      (6)   Unless the work shall be commenced within 30 days of the issuance
of the permit, the permit shall be void and a new permit must be obtained and
an additional fee charged. The Street Superintendent may extend the time
limitation for good cause.
      (7)   The permittee shall backfill the opening immediately upon
completion of the work and place at least five inches of traffic bind or
similar material in the opening, unless otherwise advised by the Street
Superintendent. The permittee shall maintain the opening in good condition for
a period of six months after the completion of the work or until the surface
has been restored. The Street Superintendent shall decide when within the six-
month period the opening is ready for paving if a paving surface is required.
If the surface is not restored within a period of ten days or such longer
period as determined by the Street Superintendent, the village may restore the
surface and bill the permittee.
      (8)   In the event of an emergency, any person owning or controlling any
sewer, gas main, water main, conduit, or other utility in or under any public
street, alley, easement, way, or ground and his or her agents and employees may
take immediate proper emergency measures to remedy dangerous conditions for the
protection of property, life, health, or safety without obtaining an excavation
permit, provided that such person shall apply for an excavation permit not
later than the next business day.
      (9)   The application for a permit shall be in writing and signed by the
applicant or his or her agent. The applicant shall submit to the Street
Superintendent at the time the permit is applied for, sufficient information
relating to the work to be done including the general location and nature of
the work and the method applicant proposes to use in doing the work. The Street
Superintendent shall determine if sufficient information is submitted.
      (10)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to excavation work
done under the direction of the Superintendent by village employees or
contractors performing work under contract with the village, except that the
safety precautions under division (B)(3) above shall be complied with.
      (11)   The charge for the permit shall be $25 payable to the village and
issued by the Village Clerk.
(Ord. passed - -2016) Penalty, see §
151.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.075 ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENFORCEMENT AGENTS; DUTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the following
persons, and their duties shall be as appears in various places in this
chapter.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall be composed of the Village President
as presiding chairperson, the Zoning Administrator, plus up to two members of
the Village Board as selected by the Village President, plus three citizens who
shall be selected and appointed by the Village President, confirmed by the
Village Board. This Commission shall be an advisory group and shall submit
recommendations to the Village Board when this chapter is to be amended, to the
Planning Commission whenever variances or conditional uses are to be considered
by public hearing, to the Planning Commission prior to their considerations,
and whenever requested to do so in other circumstances by the Village
President. In all cases, the Planning Commission shall only meet and advise
when called by the Village President.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall be appointed as specified in the state
statutes.
   (B)   Members of any commission or board, not members of the Village Board,
shall be compensated for their meetings the same as Village Board members are
paid for committee meetings.
(1999 Code, § 151.70) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.076 LAND USE CONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING PERMIT; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Applications for a LUCR permit, with site plans attached, must be made
before any groundbreaking or construction of any kind including, but not
restricted to, decking and concrete pads, has been started, to the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the applicant, owner of the site, architect,
professional engineer, or contractor;
      (2)   Description of the subject site by lot, block, and recorded
subdivision or by metes and bounds; address of the subject site; type of
structure; existing and proposed operation or use of the structure site; number
of employees; and the zoning area within which the subject site lies;
      (3)   Plat of survey showing the location, boundaries, dimensions,
elevation, uses, and size of the following: subject site; existing and proposed
structures; existing and proposed easements, streets, and other public ways;
off-street parking, loading areas, and driveways; existing highway access
restrictions; existing and proposed street, side, and rear yards. In addition,
the plat of survey shall show the compatibility in location, elevation, and use
of any abutting lands and their structures within 40 feet of the subject site.
The Zoning Administrator shall have the right to request a registered land
survey if he or she feels that it is needed under the conditions shown on the
application;
      (4)   A permit is not required for routine nonstructural maintenance
improvements, such as painting, staining, plastering, siding, roofing, and
floor covering. A LUCR is also not required when first installing or replacing
household fixtures, such as furnaces, bathtubs, showers, sinks, stools, and air
conditioning units; and
      (5)   A LUCR permit shall be granted or denied in writing by the Zoning
Administrator within 30 days. The permit shall expire within three months for
demolition and 12 months for construction. Permitted projects not completed by
the expiration of this permit will require a renewal of the permit and payment
of another fee equal to 50% of the original fee amount. With every permit
issued, the Zoning Administrator shall issue the applicant a weatherproof
permit card properly filled out. It shall be the duty of such applicant to
place such a card in a conspicuous place on the premises where the construction
is permitted. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void.
   (B)   (1)   An application properly submitted for a LUCR permit shall be
accompanied by a fee of:
         (a)   Projects with costs of up to $1,000: $25;
         (b)   Projects from $1,001 - $5,000: $50;
         (c)   Projects from $5,001 - $10,000: $100;
         (d)   Projects from $10,001 - $100,000: $300; and
         (e)   Projects over $100,001: $500.
      (2)   Fees are not refundable in the event the LUCR permit is or is not
granted by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator will perform site
and follow-up inspections as necessary.
   (C)   Failure to obtain a LUCR prior to starting any project will result in
a penalty fee of $250. Additional penalties may apply per § 151.999.
(1999 Code, § 151.71) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. passed 5-13-2019; Res.
2024-0819-2, passed 8-20-2024) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.077 HEARING APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall within 60 days hold a hearing on any
variance, give public notice thereof by publication in the official newspaper
of the village or posting in three places in the village, not less than ten
days prior to the hearing specifying the date, time, and place of hearing and
the matters to come before the Board, as well as mailed notice to the parties
in interest and decide the same within 30 days of the date of the hearing. Upon
the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
(1999 Code, § 151.72) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.078 AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES.
   The Village Board may from time to time amend, supplement, or change by
ordinance the boundaries of the areas or regulations herein established. Any
proposed change shall first be submitted to the Planning Commission, who shall
hold a public hearing for its recommendation and report. Notice of time and
place of such hearing shall be given by publication thereof once each week for
two successive weeks in the official newspaper of the village or posting in
three public places within the village.
(1999 Code, § 151.73) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.079 FEES FOR VARIANCE OR CONDITIONAL USE REQUEST.
   An application properly submitted for a variance or a conditional use permit
from the this chapter or change in the land use maps shall be accompanied by a
fee of $50 (applicant will be billed for any additional cost) which is not
refundable in the event the variance or conditional use is or is not granted by
the Village Board.
(1999 Code, § 151.74) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
§ 151.080 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF ZONING MAP AND ZONING CODE TEXT.
   The official zoning map and Zoning Code for public inspection are on file at
the Village Clerk’s office.
(1999 Code, § 151.75) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984)
GREATER RIVER ROAD PRESERVATION
§ 151.095 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Pepin County’s code of ordinances, Chapter 28 Great River Road
Preservation Zoning Code (§§ 28.01 through 28.04), and all acts amendatory to
and supplementary thereto, relating to development and land use on or near the
Great River Road in the county, so far as applicable to the village, are
adopted as a portion of the village’s code of ordinances, except as lawfully
provide by village ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter is adopted under the authorization in Wis. Stat. §
61.34.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.096 FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The County Board of Supervisors recognizes that uncontrolled use of
the lands that surround the Wisconsin Great River Road/National Scenic Byway
(State Highway 35) within the county would adversely affect the environment,
public health, safety, and property values, and irreparably harm the recreation
and tourism economies thereby impairing the tax base of the county.
   (B)   The Wisconsin Great River Road is defined in Wis. Stat. § 84.107(1).
In 1938, a multi-state group, with the state as a participant, initiated
planning for a parkway along the Mississippi River. The Great River Road
National Scenic Byway (GRR/NSB) that emerged from this plan follows the
Mississippi River for 3,000 miles through ten states, from northern Minnesota
to the Gulf of Mexico. In the state, the State Department of Transportation is
now the jurisdictional authority over the segment of the GRR/NSB that runs
through it. The Mississippi River Parkway Commission (MRPC), as defined by Wis.
Stat. § 14.85, has coordinated efforts on federal, state, and local levels to
leverage millions of dollars for building and maintaining highway improvements,
recreational trails, bikeways, scenic overlooks, and tourist information
centers, and for preserving and commemorating historic sites. Since the GRR
received the prestigious designation as a National Scenic Byway in 2000,
approximately $9,300,000 ($7,400,000 in federal dollars and $1,900,000 in state
dollars) has been invested to preserve, enhance, and promote the GRR/NSB as a
national and state tourism corridor and travel destination. This investment has
helped to create thousands of jobs in the tourism economy along the Wisconsin
Great River Road/National Scenic Byway. According to figures collected by the
Wisconsin Department of Tourism, there were approximately 4,800 tourism-based
jobs on or near the Wisconsin GRR/NSB in 2011, generating over $255,000,000 in
visitor spending in that year alone.
   (C)   “Frac Sand” is hydraulic fracture-grade silica sand used in the
exploration, drilling, production, and recovery of oil and gas. Silica sand
deposits that can be readily accessed and processed into frac sand occur in
many parts of Western Wisconsin, including the county. Unlike other nonmetallic
mining operations, the mining, extraction, storage, processing, and
transportation of frac sand (“frac sand operations”) both in the towns and
villages of Stockholm and Pepin can adversely affect the environment, health,
safety, and general welfare of the residents, land owners, and members of the
general public who leisurely travel the GRR/NSB, stopping at the many scenic
overlooks, historical markers, waysides, and picturesque villages to experience
the intrinsic features and values unique to the area’s rural land and
communities. Frac sand operations involve very large numbers of heavy trucks
each day transporting industrial silica sand and frac sand to and from mining
sites, off-site processing facilities, and rail and barge loading facilities.
Unlike other nonmetallic mining operations, frac sand operations, because of
their size and scope, will have adverse effects on the many resources of the
towns and villages, including their groundwater, surface water, landscape,
natural beauty, and public roads. These resources are the key to the success of
farming, recreation, and tourism which are currently the prevailing businesses
and the economic base of the towns and villages along the GRR/NSB.
   (D)   Frac sand operations in the county that use the Great River Road/
National Scenic Byway for hauling of frac sand in excess of 50-truck trips per
day will cause irreparable harm to land values and the recreation and tourism
economies on or near the GRR/NSB. Competition with heavy frac sand traffic will
discourage and in some cases physically deter the public from coming to this
part of the county to visit, shop, dine, lodge, or enjoy the area’s unique
opportunities for boating, fishing, and sight-seeing. Many tourism jobs will be
lost if hundreds of frac sand trucks each day travel on the roads and highways
that go through the towns and villages. Property in the towns and villages will
not be as desirable for residential development.
   (E)   The loss of tourism jobs coupled with a decrease in property values in
the towns and villages would reduce the county’s overall tax base and state
sales tax revenues returned to the county. In 2012, the towns and villages
along the Great River Road provided 36.2% of the equalized values for property
taxes assessed in the county. This loss of tax base, should it occur, will
negatively affect the ability of the county to provide essential government
services to residents of the county, and will increase the property tax burden
for the City of Durand and other townships in the county.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.097 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Great River Road/National Scenic Byway Preservation
Overlay District is to guide development and land use on and near the Great
River Road in the county, consistent with the zoning and licensing ordinances
of the towns and villages, by regulations that will preserve the scenic nature
of the GRR/NSB and maintain the jobs in the tourism and recreation industries
located there which are dependent upon the many visitors and tourists who
travel the Great River Road.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.098 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and referred to as the “Great River Road
Preservation Zoning Code.”
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.099 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Subject to village approval as provided in Wis. Stat. § 59.69, the
jurisdiction of this subchapter shall apply to all land within the county as
follows:
      (1)   Land west of the center line of the Great River Road/National
Scenic Byway to the thread of the Mississippi River; and
      (2)   Land east of the center line of the Great River Road/National
Scenic Byway to and including bluff areas defined in § 19.04 of the Mississippi
River Bluffland Zoning Code from the county boundary with Pierce County down
river to County Road N; and east of the center line of the GRR/NSB to the
junction of County Road N and Back Valley Road and eastward along the section
lines (following Sand Road) to the Chippewa River.
   (B)   The land listed in division (A) above includes the land sections set
forth in §
151.108 of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.100 COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN AND VILLAGE LICENSING AND ZONING ORDINANCES.
   The use of any land (size, shape, and placement of lots; use, size, type,
and location of structures on lots; installation and maintenance of water
supply and waste disposal facilities; filling and grading of lands; cutting of
woody vegetation and subdivision of lots) shall be in full compliance with the
terms and requirements of the applicable licensing and zoning ordinances and
regulations of the State of Wisconsin, Pepin County, Town of Stockholm, Town of
Pepin, Village of Stockholm, and Village of Pepin, and Chapter 19 (Mississippi
River Bluffland Zoning Code) of the Pepin County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.101 ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this subchapter shall be governed by §§ 19.06 through
19.10 of the county code of ordinances as amended. Section 19.07(2)(c)(1) is
amended to read “impact of the proposed use upon the scenic and recreational
use qualities of the Mississippi River and the Great River Road/National Scenic
Byway (GRR/NSB), State Highway 35”(amended language underlined.)
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.102 REGULATIONS SUPERSEDE OTHER COUNTY LAND USE REGULATIONS.
   The regulations contained in this subchapter are in addition to regulations
which apply to such lands under other applicable town, village, county, state,
and/or federal land use ordinances, administrative codes, or laws. If the
regulations of this chapter conflict with other regulations, the most
restrictive of the conflicting regulations shall apply.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.103 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be construed in favor of the
county and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers
granted by the state statutes.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.104 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions set forth and applicable to the zoning and
licensing ordinances and regulations of the county, the Town of Stockholm, the
Town of Pepin, the Village of Stockholm, the Village of Pepin and Chapter 19 of
the Pepin County Code of Ordinances (the Mississippi River Bluffland Zoning
Code), the following definitions also apply to the terms used in this chapter.
   FRAC SAND OPERATION. Any mining operation, any processing facility, and any
transfer and/or loading operation or facility for the transport by truck, rail,
or barge of industrial silica sand intended for use or sale as hydraulic
fracture grade silica sand used in the exploration, drilling, production, and
recovery of oil and gas.
   GREAT RIVER ROAD/NATIONAL SCENIC BYWAY. The portion of GRR/NSB on State
Highway 35 in the county and the corridor through which it passes.
   HIGH-IMPACT INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL OPERATION. Any business, including frac
sand operations, that involves more than 50-truck trips, as defined in this
section, in any given day.
   TRUCK TRIPS. Trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating, or actual gross
weight, in excess of 50,000 pounds traveling on the GRR/NSB in the county.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.105 PERMITTED USES.
   All uses permitted by licensing or zoning ordinances or regulations adopted
by the Towns and Villages of Stockholm and Pepin, or uses customarily incident
of any permitted uses, provided that no such uses generate more than 50-truck
trips in any given day.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.106 CONDITIONAL USES.
   All conditional uses permitted by licensing or zoning ordinances or
regulations adopted by the Towns and Villages of Stockholm and Pepin, provided
that no such uses generate more than 50 or more truck trips in any given day.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.107 SPECIAL PROHIBITIONS.
   The following special prohibitions are essential to the preservation and
protection of the GRR/NSB.
   (A)   No use may be established within the Great River Road/National Scenic
Byway and areas covered by this subchapter which is not authorized, permitted,
or listed as a conditional use in the licensing or zoning ordinances or
regulations adopted by the Towns and Villages of Stockholm and Pepin.
   (B)   No high-impact industrial or commercial operation may be established
in the Great River Road/National Scenic Byway and areas covered by this
subchapter.
   (C)   No frac sand operations may be established in the Great River Road/
National Scenic Byway and areas covered by this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014) Penalty see §
151.999
§ 151.108 EXHIBITS.
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/46b8ef69921998b7b9cf1ccaf1331acc5b417768/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1246.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46b8ef69921998b7b9cf1ccaf1331acc5b417768/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1248.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46b8ef69921998b7b9cf1ccaf1331acc5b417768/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1250.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/46b8ef69921998b7b9cf1ccaf1331acc5b417768/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1252.png]
 
(Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, company, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter unless otherwise specified, upon conviction, shall
be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1999 Code, § 151.99) (Ord. 123, passed 12-10-1984; Ord. passed 3-10-2014)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Finding of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Title
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Areas to be regulated
   
152.07   Official maps and revisions
   
152.08   Establishment of districts
   
152.09   Locating floodplain boundaries
   
152.10   Removal of lands from floodplain
   
152.11   Compliance
   
152.12   Municipalities and state agencies regulated
   
152.13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.14   Interpretation
   
152.15   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.16   Annexed areas
   
152.17   General development standards
   
152.18   Amendments
Regulations
   
152.30   General standards applicable to all floodplain districts
   
152.31   Floodway District (FW)
   
152.32   Floodfringe District (FF)
   
152.33   General Floodplain District (GFP)
   
152.34   Nonconforming uses
Administration
   
152.45   Generally
   
152.46   Zoning Administrator
   
152.47   Zoning agency
   
152.48   Board of Adjustment/Appeals
   
152.49   Review appeals of permit denials
   
152.50   Floodproofing
   
152.51   Public information
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization in Wis. Stat. §§ 61.35
and 62.23 and the requirements in Wis. Stat. § 87.30.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.02 FINDING OF FACT.
   Uncontrolled development and use of the floodplains and rivers of the
village would impair the public health, safety, convenience, general welfare,
and tax base.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to regulate floodplain development to:
   (A)   Protect life, health, and property;
   (B)   Minimize expenditures of public funds for flood control projects;
   (C)   Minimize rescue and relief efforts undertaken at the expense of the
taxpayers;
   (D)   Minimize business interruptions and other economic disruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities in the floodplain;
   (F)   Minimize the occurrence of future flood blight areas in the
floodplain;
   (G)   Discourage the victimization of unwary land and homebuyers;
   (H)   Prevent increases in flood heights that could increase flood damage
and result in conflicts between property owners; and
   (I)   Discourage development in a floodplain if there is any practicable
alternative to locate the activity, use, or structure outside of the
floodplain.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.04 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the floodplain zoning ordinance for the
village.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number includes the
plural number; and the plural number includes the singular number. The word
“shall” is mandatory and not optional.
   A ZONES. Those areas shown on the official floodplain zoning map which would
be inundated by the regional flood. These areas may be numbered or unnumbered A
Zones. The A ZONES may or may not be reflective of flood profiles, depending on
the availability of data for a given area.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE. A facility, structure, building, or use which is
accessory or incidental to the principal use of a property, structure, or
building.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year, as published by FEMA as part of a FIS and depicted on a FIRM.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building having its floor sub-grade, such
as, below ground level, on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   BULKHEAD LINE. A geographic line along a reach of navigable water that has
been adopted by a municipal ordinance and approved by the Department pursuant
to Wis. Stat. § 30.11, and which allows limited filling between this bulkhead
line and the original ordinary highwater mark, except where such filling is
prohibited by the floodway provisions of this chapter.
   CAMPGROUND. Any parcel of land which is designed, maintained, intended, or
used for the purpose of providing sites for nonpermanent overnight use by four
or more camping units, or which is advertised or represented as a camping area.
   CAMPING UNIT. Any portable device, no more than 400 square feet in area,
used as a temporary shelter, including but not limited to a camping trailer,
motor home, bus, van, pick-up truck, tent, or other mobile recreational
vehicle.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certification that the construction and the use
of land or a building, the elevation of fill, or the lowest floor of a
structure is in compliance with all of the provisions of this chapter.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct normal flow of water.
   CRAWLWAYS or CRAWL SPACE. An enclosed area below the first usable floor of a
building, generally less than five feet in height, used for access to plumbing
and electrical utilities.
   DECK. An unenclosed exterior structure that has no roof or sides, but has a
permeable floor which allows the infiltration of precipitation.
   DEPARTMENT. The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any artificial change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures, or
accessory structures; the construction of additions or alterations to
buildings, structures, or accessory structures; the repair of any damaged
structure or the improvement or renovation of any structure, regardless of
percentage of damage or improvement; the placement of buildings or structures;
subdivision layout and site preparation; mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation, or drilling operations; the storage, deposition, or
extraction of materials or equipment; and the installation, repair, or removal
of public or private sewage disposal systems or water supply facilities.
   DRYLAND ACCESS. A vehicular access route which is above the regional flood
elevation and which connects land located in the floodplain to land outside the
floodplain, such as a road with its surface above regional flood elevation and
wide enough for wheeled rescue and relief vehicles.
   ENCROACHMENT. Any fill, structure, equipment, building, use, or development
in the floodway.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land, divided
into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale, on which the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots is completed before the
effective date of this chapter. At a minimum, this would include the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads.
   EXPANSION TO EXISTING MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed. This includes installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring if concrete pads.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The federal agency that
administers the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas caused by one of the following
conditions:
      (1)   The overflow or rise of inland waters;
      (2)   The rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
      (3)   The inundation caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
anticipated cyclical levels along the shore of Lake Michigan or Lake Superior;
or
      (4)   The sudden increase caused by an unusually high water level in a
natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated
force of nature, such as a seiche, or by some similarly unusual event.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The probability of a flood occurrence which is determined
from statistical analyses. The frequency of a particular flood event is usually
expressed as occurring, on the average once in a specified number of years or
as a percent chance of occurring in any given year.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. A map designating approximate flood hazard areas.
Flood hazard areas are designated as unnumbered A Zones and do not contain
floodway lines or regional flood elevations. This map forms the basis for both
the regulatory and insurance aspects of the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) until superseded by a flood insurance study and a flood insurance rate
map.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map of a community on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both special flood hazard areas (the
floodplain) and the risk premium zones applicable to the community. This map
can only be amended by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. A technical engineering examination, evaluation, and
determination of the local flood hazard areas. It provides maps designating
those areas affected by the regional flood and provides both flood insurance
rate zones and base flood elevations, and may provide floodway lines. The flood
hazard areas are designated as numbered and unnumbered A Zones. Flood Insurance
Rate Maps, that accompany the Flood Insurance Study, form the basis for both
the regulatory and the insurance aspects of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal profile line showing the
relationship of the water surface elevation of a flood event to locations of
land surface elevations along a stream or river.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation of two feet of freeboard above the
water surface profile elevation designated for the regional flood. (See also
FREEBOARD.)
   FLOOD STORAGE. Those floodplain areas where storage of floodwaters has been
taken into account during analysis in reducing the regional flood discharge.
   FLOODFRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway which is
covered by flood waters during the regional flood and associated with standing
water rather than flowing water.
   FLOODPLAIN. Land which has been or may be covered by flood water during the
regional flood. It includes the FLOODWAY and the FLOODFRINGE, and may include
other designated floodplain areas for regulatory purposes.
   FLOODPLAIN ISLAND. A natural geologic land formation within the floodplain
that is surrounded, but not covered, by floodwater during the regional flood.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. Policy and procedures to ensure wise use of
floodplains, including mapping and engineering, mitigation, education, and
administration and enforcement of floodplain regulations.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures, water and sanitary facilities, and
contents of buildings subject to flooding, for the purpose of reducing or
eliminating flood damage.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel required to carry the regional flood
discharge.
   FREEBOARD. A safety factor expressed in terms of a specified number of feet
above a calculated flood level. FREEBOARD compensates for any factors that
cause flood heights greater than those calculated, including ice jams, debris
accumulation, wave action, obstruction of bridge openings and floodways, the
effects of watershed urbanization, loss of flood storage areas due to
development, and aggregation of the river or stream bed.
   HABITABLE STRUCTURE. Any structure or portion thereof used or designed for
human habitation.
   HEARING NOTICE. Publication or posting meeting the requirements of Wis.
Stat. Ch. 985. For appeals, a Class 1 notice, published once at least one week
(seven days) before the hearing, is required. For all zoning ordinances and
amendments, a Class 2 notice, published twice, once each week consecutively,
the last at least one week (seven days) before the hearing. Local ordinances or
bylaws may require additional notice, exceeding these minimums.
   HIGH FLOOD DAMAGE POTENTIAL. Damage that could result from flooding that
includes any danger to life or health or any significant economic loss to a
structure or building and its contents.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is either:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program, as determined by the Secretary of the Interior,
or by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
   INCREASE IN REGIONAL FLOOD HEIGHT. A calculated upward rise in the regional
flood elevation, equal to or greater than 0.01 foot, based on a comparison of
existing conditions and proposed conditions which is directly attributable to
development in the floodplain but not attributable to manipulation of
mathematical variables, such as roughness factors, expansion, and contraction
coefficients and discharge.
   LAND USE. Any nonstructural use made of unimproved or improved real estate.
(See also DEVELOPMENT.)
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities. MANUFACTURED HOME
includes a mobile home but does not include a MOBILE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MOBILE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is built on a single chassis,
400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled, carried or permanently towable by a licensed,
light-duty vehicle, is licensed for highway use if registration is required,
and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
MANUFACTURED HOMES that are towed or carried onto a parcel of land, but do not
remain capable of being towed or carried, including park model homes, do not
fall within the definition of MOBILE RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL. The Village of Pepin.
   NAVD or NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM. Elevations referenced to mean sea
level datum, 1988 adjustment.
   NGVD or NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM. Elevations referenced to mean sea
level datum, 1929 adjustment.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
floodplain zoning regulations adopted by this community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purpose of determining
flood insurance rates, it includes any structures for which the START OF
CONSTRUCTION commenced on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. An existing lawful structure or building which is
not in conformity with the dimensional or structural requirements of this
chapter for the area of the floodplain which it occupies. (For example, an
existing residential structure in the floodfringe district is a conforming use.
However, if the lowest floor is lower than the flood protection elevation, the
structure is nonconforming.)
   NONCONFORMING USE. An existing lawful use or accessory use of a structure or
building which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter for the
area of the floodplain which it occupies (such as a residence in the floodway).
   OBSTRUCTION TO FLOW. Any development which blocks the conveyance of
floodwaters such that this development alone or together with any future
development will cause an increase in regional flood height.
   OFFICIAL FLOODPLAIN ZONING MAP. The map, adopted and made part of this
chapter, as described in §
152.07 of this subchapter, which has been approved by the Department and FEMA.
   OPEN SPACE USE. Those uses having a relatively low flood damage potential
and not involving structures.
   ORDINARY HIGHWATER MARK. The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous as to leave a distinctive
mark, such as by erosion, destruction, or prevention of terrestrial vegetation,
predominance of aquatic vegetation, or other easily recognized characteristic.
   PERSON. An individual, or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association, municipality, or state agency.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM. A sewage treatment and disposal system serving one
structure with a septic tank and soil absorption field located on the same
parcel as the structure. It also means an alternative sewage system approved by
the Department of Commerce, including a substitute for the septic tank or soil
absorption field, a holding tank, a system serving more than one structure, or
a system located on a different parcel than the structure.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. Those utilities using underground or overhead transmission
lines, such as electric, telephone and telegraph, and distribution and
collection systems, such as water, sanitary sewer, and storm sewer.
   REASONABLY SAFE FROM FLOODING. Base flood waters that will not inundate the
land or damage structures to be removed from the special flood hazard area and
that any subsurface waters related to the base flood will not damage existing
or proposed buildings.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood determined to be representative of large floods
known to have occurred in the state. A REGIONAL FLOOD is a flood with a 1%
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year, and if depicted on the
FIRM, the RFE is equivalent to the BFE.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual START OF CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond initial excavation, or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling, nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms, nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For an alteration, the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Any human-made object with form, shape, and utility, either
permanently or temporarily attached to, placed upon, or set into the ground,
stream bed, or lake bed, including, but not limited to, roofed and walled
buildings, gas or liquid storage tanks, bridges, dams, and culverts.
   SUBDIVISION. The meaning given in Wis. Stat. § 236.02(12).
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the equalized assessed value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
   UNNECESSARY HARDSHIP. Where special conditions affecting a particular
property, which were not self-created, have made strict conformity with
restrictions governing areas, setbacks, frontage, height, or density
unnecessarily burdensome or unreasonable in light of the purposes of this
chapter.
   VARIANCE. An authorization by the Board of Adjustment or Appeals for the
construction or maintenance of a building or structure in a manner which is
inconsistent with dimensional standards (not uses) contained in this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without required
permits, lowest floor elevation documentation, floodproofing certificates, or
required floodway encroachment calculations is presumed to be in violation
until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE PROFILE. A graphical representation showing the elevation of
the water surface of a watercourse for each position along a reach of river or
stream at a certain flood flow. A WATER SURFACE PROFILE of the regional flood
is used in regulating floodplain areas.
   WATERSHED. The entire region contributing runoff or surface water to a
watercourse or body of water.
   WELL. An excavation opening in the ground made by digging, boring, drilling,
driving, or other methods, to obtain groundwater regardless of its intended
use.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.06 AREAS TO BE REGULATED.
   This chapter regulates all areas that would be covered by the regional flood
or base flood. Note: base flood elevations are derived from the flood profiles
in the flood insurance study. Regional flood elevations may be derived from
other studies. Areas covered by the base flood are identified as A-Zones on the
flood insurance rate map.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.07 OFFICIAL MAPS AND REVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The boundaries of all floodplain districts are designated
as floodplains or A-Zones on the maps listed in division (B) below and the
revisions in the appendix at the end of this chapter. Any change to the base
flood elevations (BFE) in the flood insurance study (FIS) or on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) must be reviewed and approved by the DNR and FEMA
before it is effective. No changes to regional flood elevations (RFEs) on non-
FEMA maps shall be effective until approved by the DNR. These maps and
revisions are on file in the office of the Village Clerk. If more than one map
or revision is referenced, the most restrictive information shall apply.
   (B)   Official maps.
      (1)   Based on the FIS 55091C0300D:
         (a)   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM), panel number 55091C0310D,
55019C0320D dated 8/19/2010 with corresponding profiles that are based on the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated 8/19/2010 55091CV000A; and
         (b)   Approved by: The DNR and FEMA.
      (2)   Based on other studies (the following are examples of other types
of maps you may need to adopt): floodplain study appendix: all DNR- and FEMA-
approved floodplain maps, flood profiles, floodway data tables, regional or
base flood elevations, and other information located in the appendix at the end
of this chapter. The community shall provide the most up to date appendix to
the DNR and FEMA regional offices.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The regional floodplain areas are divided into three districts as follows.
   (A)   The Floodway District (FW) is the channel of a river or stream and
those portions of the floodplain adjoining the channel required to carry the
regional floodwaters.
   (B)   The Floodfringe District (FF) is that portion of the floodplain
between the regional flood limits and the floodway.
   (C)   The General Floodplain District (GFP) is those areas that have been or
may be covered by floodwater during the regional flood.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.09 LOCATING FLOODPLAIN BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Discrepancies between boundaries on the official floodplain zoning map
and actual field conditions shall be resolved using the criteria in divisions
(A)(1) or (A)(2) below. If a significant difference exists, the map shall be
amended according to §
152.18 of this subchapter. The Zoning Administrator can rely on a boundary
derived from a profile elevation to grant or deny a land use permit, whether or
not a map amendment is required. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for documenting actual pre-development field conditions and the basis upon
which the district boundary was determined and for initiating any map
amendments required under this section. Disputes between the Zoning
Administrator and an applicant over the district boundary line shall be settled
according to §
152.48(C) of this chapter and the criteria in divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) below.
      (1)   If flood profiles exist, the map scale and the profile elevations
shall determine the district boundary. The regional or base flood elevations
shall govern if there are any discrepancies.
      (2)   Where flood profiles do not exist, the location of the boundary
shall be determined by the map scale, visual on-site inspection and any
information provided by the Department.
   (B)   Where the flood profiles are based on established base flood
elevations from a FIRM, FEMA must also approve any map amendment pursuant to §
152.18(A)(6) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.10 REMOVAL OF LANDS FROM FLOODPLAIN.
   (A)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be grounds
for removing land from the floodplain unless it is filled at least two feet
above the regional or base flood elevation, the fill is contiguous to land
outside the floodplain, and the map is amended pursuant to §
152.18 of this chapter.
   (B)   This procedure does not remove the requirements for the mandatory
purchase of flood insurance. The property owner must contact FEMA to request a
letter of map change (LOMC).
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.11 COMPLIANCE.
   Any development or use within the areas regulated by this chapter shall be
in compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable local, state,
and federal regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.12 MUNICIPALITIES AND STATE AGENCIES REGULATED.
   Unless specifically exempted by law, all cities, villages, towns, and
counties are required to comply with this chapter and obtain all necessary
permits. State agencies are required to comply if Wis. Stat. § 13.48(13)
applies. The construction, reconstruction, maintenance, and repair of state
highways and bridges by the Wisconsin Department of Transportation is exempt
when Wis. Stat. § 30.2022 applies.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter supersedes all the provisions of any municipal zoning
ordinance enacted under Wis. Stat. §§ 61.35 or 87.30, which relate to
floodplains. If another ordinance is more restrictive than this chapter, that
ordinance shall continue in full force and effect to the extent of the greater
restrictions, but not otherwise.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing deed restrictions, covenants, or easements. If this chapter imposes
greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.14 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter are
the minimum requirements liberally construed in favor of the governing body and
are not a limitation on or repeal of any other powers granted by the state
statutes. If a provision of this chapter required by Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR
116 is unclear, the provision shall be interpreted in light of the standards in
effect on the date of the adoption of this chapter or in effect on the date of
the most recent text amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.15 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The flood protection standards in this chapter are based on engineering
experience and scientific research. Larger floods may occur or the flood height
may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply
or guarantee that non floodplain areas or permitted floodplain uses will be
free from flooding and flood damages. Nor does this chapter create liability on
the part of, or a cause of action against, the municipality or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damage that may result from reliance on this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.16 ANNEXED AREAS.
   The county floodplain zoning provisions in effect on the date of annexation
shall remain in effect and shall be enforced by the municipality for all
annexed areas until the municipality adopts and enforces an ordinance which
meets the requirements of Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 116 and the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP). These annexed lands are described on the village’s
official zoning map. County floodplain zoning provisions are incorporated by
reference for the purpose of administering this section and are on file in the
office of the Village Zoning Administrator. All plats or maps of annexation
shall show the regional flood elevation and the location of the floodway.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.17 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The community shall review all permit applications to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed
building site is in a flood-prone area, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall be designed or modified and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads; be constructed with materials resistant to
flood damage; be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages; and be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. Subdivisions shall be reviewed for
compliance with the above standards. All subdivision proposals (including
manufactured home parks) shall include regional flood elevation and floodway
data for any development that meets the SUBDIVISION definition of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.18 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The governing body may change or supplement the floodplain zoning
district boundaries and this chapter in the manner provided by law. Actions
which require an amendment include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Any change to the official floodplain zoning map, including the
floodway line or boundary of any floodplain area;
         (b)   Correction of discrepancies between the water surface profiles
and floodplain zoning maps;
         (c)   Any fill in the floodplain which raises the elevation of the
filled area to a height at or above the flood protection elevation and is
contiguous to land lying outside the floodplain;
         (d)   Any fill or floodplain encroachment that obstructs flow,
increasing regional flood height of 0.01 foot or more;
         (e)   Any upgrade to a floodplain zoning ordinance text required by
Wis. Admin. Code NR 116.05, or otherwise required by law, or for changes by the
village; or
         (f)   All channel relocations and changes to the maps to alter
floodway lines or to remove an area from the floodway or the floodfringe that
is based on a base flood elevation from a FIRM requires prior approval by FEMA.
      (2)   Consult the FEMA web site at www.fema.gov for the map change fee
schedule.
   (B)   Procedures. Ordinance amendments may be made upon petition of any
interested party according to the provisions Wis. Stat. § 62.23. Such petitions
shall include all necessary data required by §§
152.33(D) and
152.46(B) of this chapter.
      (1)   The proposed amendment shall be referred to the Zoning Agency for a
public hearing and recommendation to the governing body. The amendment and
notice of public hearing shall be submitted to the Department Regional office
for review prior to the hearing. The amendment procedure shall comply with the
provisions of Wis. Stat. § 62.23.
      (2)   No amendments shall become effective until reviewed and approved by
the Department.
      (3)   All persons petitioning for a map amendment that obstructs flow,
increasing regional flood height 0.01 foot or more, shall obtain flooding
easements or other appropriate legal arrangements from all adversely affected
property owners and notify local units of government before the amendment can
be approved by the governing body.
      (4)   For amendments in areas with no water surface profiles, the Zoning
Agency or Board shall consider data submitted by the Department, the Zoning
Administrator’s visual on-site inspections, and other available information
(see §
152.09 of this chapter).
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
REGULATIONS
§ 152.30 GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Hydraulic and hydrologic analyses.
      (1)   Except as allowed in division (A)(3) below, no floodplain
development shall:
         (a)   Obstruct flow, defined as development which blocks the
conveyance of floodwaters by itself or with other development, increasing
regional flood height; or
         (b)   Increase regional flood height due to floodplain storage area
lost, which equals or exceeds 0.01 foot.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall deny permits if it is determined the
proposed development will obstruct flow or increase regional flood heights 0.01
foot or more, based on the officially adopted FIRM or other adopted map, unless
the provisions of division (A)(3) below are met.
      (3)   Obstructions or increases equal to or greater than 0.01 foot may
only be permitted if amendments are made to this chapter, the official
floodplain zoning maps, floodway lines, and water surface profiles, in
accordance with §
152.18 of this chapter.
      (4)   This section refers to obstructions or increases in base flood
elevations as shown on the officially adopted FIRM or other adopted map. Any
such alterations must be reviewed and approved by FEMA and the DNR.
   (B)   Watercourse alterations. No land use permit to alter or relocate a
watercourse in a mapped floodplain shall be issued until the local official has
notified in writing all adjacent municipalities, the Department, and FEMA
regional offices and required the applicant to secure all necessary state and
federal permits. The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated
watercourse shall be maintained. As soon as is practicable, but not later than
six months after the date of the watercourse alteration or relocation, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify FEMA of the changes by submitting appropriate
technical or scientific data in accordance with NFIP guidelines that shall be
used to revise the FIRM, risk premium rates and floodplain management
regulations as required.
   (C)   Wis. Stat. Ch. 30 and 31; development. Development which requires a
permit from the Department, under Wis. Stat. Ch. 30 and 31, such as docks,
piers, wharves, bridges, culverts, dams, and navigational aids, may be allowed
if the necessary permits are obtained and amendments to the floodway lines,
water surface profiles, BFE’s established in the FIS, or other data from the
officially adopted FIRM, or other floodplain zoning maps or the floodplain
zoning ordinance are made according to §
152.18 of this chapter.
   (D)   Public or private campgrounds. Public or private campgrounds shall
have a low flood damage potential and shall meet the following provisions:
      (1)   The campground is approved by the Department of Health Services;
      (2)   A land use permit for the campground is issued by the Zoning
Administrator;
      (3)    The character of the river system and the elevation of the
campground is such that a 72-hour warning of an impending flood can be given to
all campground occupants;
      (4)   There is an adequate flood warning procedure for the campground
that offers the minimum notice required under this section to all persons in
the campground. This procedure shall include a written agreement between the
campground owner, the municipal emergency government coordinator, and the chief
law enforcement official which specifies the flood elevation at which
evacuation shall occur, personnel responsible for monitoring flood elevations,
types of warning systems to be used and the procedures for notifying at-risk
parties, and the methods and personnel responsible for conducting the
evacuation;
      (5)   This agreement shall be for no more than one calendar year, at
which time the agreement
shall be reviewed and updated by the officials identified in division (D)(4)
above to remain in compliance with all applicable regulations, including those
of the State Department of Health Services and all other applicable
regulations;
      (6)   Only camping units are allowed;
      (7)   The camping units may not occupy any site in the campground for
more than 180 consecutive days, at which time the camping unit must be removed
from the floodplain for a minimum of 24 hours;
      (8)   All camping units that remain on site for more than 30 days shall
be issued a limited authorization by the campground operator, a written copy of
which is kept on file at the campground. Such authorization shall allow
placement of a camping unit for a period not to exceed 180 days and shall
ensure compliance with all the provisions of this section;
      (9)   The village shall monitor the limited authorizations issued by the
campground operator to assure compliance with the terms of this section;
      (10)   All camping units that remain in place for more than 180
consecutive days must meet the applicable requirements in either §§
152.31 or
152.32 of this subchapter for the floodplain district in which the structure is
located;
      (11)   The campground shall have signs clearly posted at all entrances
warning of the flood hazard and the procedures for evacuation when a flood
warning is issued; and
      (12)   All service facilities, including but not limited to refuse
collection, electrical service, natural gas lines, propane tanks, sewage
systems, and wells shall be properly anchored and placed at or floodproofed to
the flood protection elevation.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all floodway areas on the
floodplain zoning maps and those identified pursuant to §
152.33(D) of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following open space uses are allowed in the
Floodway District and the floodway areas of the General Floodplain District, if
they are not prohibited by any other ordinance; they meet the standards in
divisions (C) and (D) below; and all permits or certificates have been issued
according to §
152.46 of this chapter:
      (1)   Agricultural uses, such as: farming, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, viticulture, and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Nonstructural industrial and commercial uses, such as loading
areas, parking areas, and airport landing strips;
      (3)   Nonstructural recreational uses, such as golf courses, tennis
courts, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting, trap and
skeet activities, hunting and fishing areas, and hiking and horseback riding
trails, subject to the fill limitations of division (C)(4) below;
      (4)   Uses or structures accessory to open space uses, or classified as
historic structures that comply with divisions (C) and (D) below;
      (5)   Extraction of sand, gravel, or other materials that comply with
division (C)(4) below;
      (6)   Functionally water-dependent uses, such as docks, piers or wharves,
dams, flowage areas, culverts, navigational aids and river crossings of
transmission lines, and pipelines that comply with Wis. Stat. Ch. 30 and 31;
and
      (7)   Public utilities, streets, and bridges that comply with division
(C)(3) below.
   (C)   Standards for developments in floodway areas.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Any development in floodway areas shall comply with §
152.30 of this subchapter and have a low flood damage potential.
         (b)   Applicants shall provide the following data to determine the
effects of the proposal according to §
152.30(A) of this subchapter:
            1.   A cross-section elevation view of the proposal, perpendicular
to the watercourse, showing if the proposed development will obstruct flow; or
            2.   An analysis calculating the effects of this proposal on
regional flood height.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall deny the permit application if
the project will increase flood elevations upstream or downstream 0.01 foot or
more, based on the data submitted for division (C)(1)(b) above.
      (2)   Structures. Structures accessory to permanent open space uses or
functionally dependent on a waterfront location may be allowed by permit if the
structures comply with the following criteria:
         (a)   The structure is not designed for human habitation and does not
have a high flood damage potential;
         (b)   It must be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral
movement;
         (c)   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated or flood
proofed to or above the flood protection elevation; and
         (d)   It must not obstruct flow of flood waters or cause any increase
in flood levels during the occurrence of the regional flood.
      (3)   Public utilities, streets, and bridges. Public utilities, streets,
and bridges may be allowed by permit, if:
         (a)   Adequate floodproofing measures are provided to the flood
protection elevation; and
         (b)   Construction meets the development standards of §
152.30(A) of this subchapter.
      (4)   Fills or deposition of materials. Fills or deposition of materials
may be allowed by permit, if:
         (a)   The requirements of §
152.30(A) of this subchapter are met;
         (b)   No material is deposited in the navigable channel unless a
permit is issued by the Department pursuant to Wis. Stat. Ch. 30 and a permit
pursuant to § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, amendments of
1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344 has been issued, if applicable, and the other
requirements of this section are met;
         (c)   The fill or other materials will be protected against erosion by
riprap, vegetative cover, sheet piling, or bulkheading; and
         (d)   The fill is not classified as a solid or hazardous material.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. All uses not listed as permitted uses in division (B)
of this section are prohibited, including the following uses:
      (1)   Habitable structures, structures with high flood damage potential,
or those not associated with permanent open space uses;
      (2)   Storing materials that are buoyant, flammable, explosive, injurious
to property, water quality, or human, animal, plant, fish, or other aquatic
life;
      (3)   Uses not in harmony with or detrimental to uses permitted in the
adjoining districts;
      (4)   Any private or public sewage systems, except portable latrines that
are removed prior to flooding and systems associated with recreational areas
and Department-approved campgrounds that meet the applicable provisions of
local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code NR 116.12;
      (5)   Any public or private wells which are used to obtain potable water,
except those for recreational areas that meet the requirements of local
ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 811 and Ch. NR 812;
      (6)   Any solid or hazardous waste disposal sites;
      (7)   Any wastewater treatment ponds or facilities, except those
permitted under Wis. Admin. Code NR 110.15(3)(b); and
      (8)   Any sanitary sewer or water supply lines, except those to service
existing or proposed development located outside the floodway which complies
with the regulations for the floodplain area occupied.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 FLOODFRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all floodfringe areas shown on
the floodplain zoning maps and those identified pursuant to §
152.33(D) of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Any structure, land use, or development is allowed in
the floodfringe district if the standards in division (C) of this section are
met, the use is not prohibited by this or any other ordinance or regulation,
and all permits or certificates specified in §
152.46 of this chapter have been issued.
   (C)   Standards for development in floodfringe areas. Section
152.30(A) of this subchapter shall apply in addition to the following
requirements according to the use requested.
      (1)   Residential uses. Any habitable structure, including a manufactured
home, which is to be erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or moved
into the floodfringe area, shall meet or exceed the following standards:
         (a)   The elevation of the lowest floor, excluding the basement or
crawlway, shall be at or above the flood protection elevation on fill. The fill
shall be one foot or more above the regional flood elevation extending at least
15 feet beyond the limits of the structure. The Department may authorize other
floodproofing measures if the elevations of existing streets or sewer lines
makes compliance with the fill standards impractical;
         (b)   The basement or crawlway floor may be placed at the regional
flood elevation if it is floodproofed to the flood protection elevation. No
basement or crawlway floor is allowed below the regional flood elevation;
         (c)   Contiguous dryland access shall be provided from a structure to
land outside of the floodplain, except as provided in division (C)(1)(d) below;
and
         (d)   In developments where existing street or sewer line elevations
make compliance with division (C)(1)(c) above impractical, the village may
permit new development and substantial improvements where access roads are at
or below the regional flood elevation, if:
            1.   The village has written assurance from police, fire, and
emergency services that rescue and relief will be provided to the structure(s)
by wheeled vehicles during a regional flood event; or
            2.   The village has a natural disaster plan approved by Wisconsin
Emergency Management and the Department.
      (2)   Accessory structures or uses.
          (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(2)(b) below, an accessory
structure which is not connected to a principal structure may be constructed
with its lowest floor at or above the regional flood elevation.
         (b)   An accessory structure which is not connected to the principal
structure and which is less than 600 square feet in size and valued at less
than $10,000 may be constructed with its lowest floor no more than two feet
below the regional flood elevation if it is subject to flood velocities of no
more than two feet per second, and it meets all of the provisions of §
152.31(C)(2)(a), (C)(2)(b), (C)(2)(c), and (C)(2)(d) of this subchapter and
division (C)(5) below.
      (3)   Commercial uses. Any commercial structure which is erected,
altered, or moved into the floodfringe area shall meet the requirements of
division (C)(1) above. Subject to the requirements of division (C)(5) below,
storage yards, surface parking lots, and other such uses may be placed at lower
elevations if an adequate warning system exists to protect life and property.
      (4)   Manufacturing and industrial uses. Any manufacturing or industrial
structure which is erected, altered, or moved into the floodfringe area shall
be protected to the flood protection elevation using fill, levees, floodwalls,
or other flood proofing measures in §
152.50 of this chapter. Subject to the requirements of division (C)(5) below,
storage yards, surface parking lots, and other such uses may be placed at lower
elevations if an adequate warning system exists to protect life and property.
      (5)   Storage of materials. Materials that are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or injurious to property, water quality, or human, animal, plant,
fish, or aquatic life shall be stored at or above the flood protection
elevation or floodproofed in compliance with §
152.50 of this chapter. Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure that such
materials will not enter the water body during flooding.
      (6)   Public utilities, streets, and bridges. All utilities, streets, and
bridges shall be designed to be compatible with comprehensive floodplain
development plans and:
         (a)   When failure of public utilities, streets, and bridges would
endanger public health or safety, or where such facilities are deemed
essential, construction of and substantial improvements to such facilities may
only be permitted if they are floodproofed in compliance with §
152.50 of this chapter to the flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Minor roads or non-essential utilities may be constructed at
lower elevations if they are designed to withstand flood forces to the regional
flood elevation.
      (7)   Sewage systems. All on-site sewage disposal systems shall be
floodproofed, pursuant to §
152.46 of this chapter, to the flood protection elevation and shall meet the
provisions of all local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 116.
      (8)   Wells. All wells shall be floodproofed, pursuant to §
152.50 of this chapter, to the flood protection elevation and shall meet the
provisions of Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 811 and Ch. NR 812.
      (9)   Solid waste disposal sites. Disposal of solid or hazardous waste is
prohibited in floodfringe areas.
      (10)   Deposition of materials. Any deposited material must meet all the
provisions of this chapter.
      (11)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   Owners or operators of all manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall provide adequate surface drainage to minimize flood damage,
and prepare, secure approval, and file an evacuation plan, indicating vehicular
access and escape routes, with local emergency management authorities.
         (b)   In existing manufactured home parks, all new homes, replacement
homes on existing pads, and substantially improved homes shall:
            1.   Have the lowest floor elevated to the flood protection
elevation; and
            2.   Be anchored so they do not float, collapse, or move laterally
during a flood.
         (c)   Outside of existing manufactured home parks, including new
manufactured home parks and all single units outside of existing parks, all
new, replacement, and substantially improved manufactured homes shall meet the
residential development standards for the floodfringe in division (C)(1) above.
      (12)   Mobile recreational vehicles. All mobile recreational vehicles
that are on site for 180 consecutive days or more or are not fully licensed and
ready for highway use shall meet the elevation and anchoring requirements in
divisions (C)(11)(b) and (C)(11)(c) above. A mobile recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick-disconnect utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT (GFP).
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions for this District shall apply to all
floodplains for which flood profiles are not available or where flood profiles
are available but floodways have not been delineated. Floodway and Floodfringe
Districts shall be delineated when adequate data is available.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Pursuant to division (D) below, it shall be determined whether the
proposed use is located within a floodway or floodfringe area.
      (2)   Those uses permitted in floodway (§
152.31(B) of this subchapter) and floodfringe areas (§
152.32(B) of this subchapter) are allowed within the General Floodplain
District, according to the standards of division (C) below, provided that all
permits or certificates required under §
152.46 of this chapter have been issued.
   (C)   Standards for development in the General Floodplain District. Section
152.31 of this subchapter applies to floodway areas and §
152.32 of this subchapter applies to floodfringe areas. The rest of this
chapter applies to either district.
   (D)   Determining floodway and floodfringe limits. Upon receiving an
application for development within the General Floodplain District, the Zoning
Administrator shall:
      (1)   Require the applicant to submit two copies of an aerial photograph
or a plan which shows the proposed development with respect to the General
Floodplain District limits, stream channel, and existing floodplain
developments, along with a legal description of the property, fill limits and
elevations, building floor elevations, and flood proofing measures;
      (2)   Require the applicant to furnish any of the following information
deemed necessary by the Department to evaluate the effects of the proposal upon
flood height and flood flows, regional flood elevation, and to determine
floodway boundaries:
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section showing the stream channel, the
floodplain adjoining each side of the channel, the cross-sectional area to be
occupied by the proposed development, and all historic high water information;
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill, or storage elevations; size, location, and
layout of all proposed and existing structures on the site; location and
elevations of streets, water supply, and sanitary facilities; soil types and
other pertinent information;
         (c)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream; or
         (d)   Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, channel improvement, storage, water supply,
and sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Transmit one copy of the information described in divisions (D)(1)
and (D)(2) above to the department regional office along with a written request
for technical assistance to establish regional flood elevations and, where
applicable, floodway data. Where the provisions of §
152.46(B)(3) of this chapter apply, the applicant shall provide all required
information and computations to delineate floodway boundaries and the effects
of the project on flood elevations.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.34 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Applicability. If these standards conform with Wis. Stat. § 62.23
(7)(h), they shall apply to all modifications or additions to any nonconforming
use or structure and to the use of any structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage of this chapter or any amendment thereto.
      (2)   Existing uses. The existing lawful use of a structure or its
accessory use which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
may continue subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   1.   No modifications or additions to a nonconforming use or
structure shall be permitted unless they comply with this chapter. The words
“modification” and “addition” include, but are not limited to, any alteration,
addition, modification, structural repair, rebuilding, or replacement of any
such existing use, structure or accessory structure, or use. Ordinary
maintenance repairs are not considered an extension, modification, or addition;
these include painting, decorating, paneling, and the replacement of doors,
windows, and other nonstructural components and the maintenance, repair, or
replacement of existing private sewage or water supply systems or connections
to public utilities. Ordinary maintenance repairs do not include any costs
associated with the repair of a damaged structure.
            2.   The construction of a deck that does not exceed 200 square
feet and that is adjacent to the exterior wall of a principal structure is not
an extension, modification, or addition. The roof of the structure may extend
over a portion of the deck in order to provide safe ingress and egress to the
principal structure.
         (b)   If a nonconforming use or the use of a nonconforming structure
is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, it is no longer permitted, and any
future use of the property, and any structure or building thereon, shall
conform to the applicable requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   The village shall keep a record which lists all nonconforming
uses and nonconforming structures, their present equalized assessed value, the
cost of all modifications or additions which have been permitted, and the
percentage of the structure’s total current value those modifications
represent.
         (d)   No modification or addition to any nonconforming structure or
any structure with a nonconforming use, which over the life of the structure
would equal or exceed 50% of its present equalized assessed value, shall be
allowed unless the entire structure is permanently changed to a conforming
structure with a conforming use in compliance with the applicable requirements
of this chapter. Contiguous dry land access must be provided for residential
and commercial uses in compliance with §
152.32(C)(1) of this subchapter. The costs of elevating a nonconforming
building or a building with a nonconforming use to the flood protection
elevation are excluded from the 50% provisions of this subsection.
         (e)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(e)2. below, if any
nonconforming structure or any structure with a nonconforming use is destroyed
or is substantially damaged, it cannot be replaced, reconstructed, or rebuilt
unless the use and the structure meet the current ordinance requirements. A
structure is considered substantially damaged if the total cost to restore the
structure to its pre-damaged condition equals or exceeds 50% of the structure’s
present equalized assessed value.
            2.   For nonconforming buildings that are damaged or destroyed by a
nonflood disaster, the repair or reconstruction of any such nonconforming
building may be permitted in order to restore it after the nonflood disaster,
provided that the nonconforming building will meet all of the minimum
requirements under applicable FEMA regulations (44 C.F.R. part 60), or the
regulations promulgated thereunder.
         (f)   A nonconforming historic structure may be altered if the
alteration will not preclude the structures continued designation as a historic
structure, the alteration will comply §
152.31(C)(1) of this subchapter, flood resistant materials are used, and
construction practices and floodproofing methods that comply with §
152.50 of this chapter are used.
   (B)   Floodway areas.
      (1)   No modification or addition shall be allowed to any nonconforming
structure or any structure with a nonconforming use in a floodway area, unless
such modification or addition:
         (a)   Has been granted a permit or variance which meets all ordinance
requirements;
         (b)   Meets the requirements of division (A) above;
         (c)   Will not increase the obstruction to flood flows or regional
flood height;
         (d)   Any addition to the existing structure shall be floodproofed,
pursuant to §
152.50 of this chapter, by means other than the use of fill, to the flood
protection elevation; and
         (e)   If any part of the foundation below the flood protection
elevation is enclosed, the following standards shall apply:
            1.   The enclosed area shall be designed by a registered architect
or engineer to allow for the efficient entry and exit of flood waters without
human intervention. A minimum of two openings must be provided with a minimum
net area of at least one square inch for every one square foot of the enclosed
area. The lowest part of the opening can be no more than 12 inches above the
adjacent grade;
            2.   The parts of the foundation located below the flood protection
elevation must be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
            3.   Mechanical and utility equipment must be elevated or
floodproofed to or above the flood protection elevation; and
            4.   The use must be limited to parking or limited storage.
      (2)   No new on-site sewage disposal system, or addition to an existing
on-site sewage disposal system, except where an addition has been ordered by a
government agency to correct a hazard to public health, shall be allowed in a
floodway area. Any replacement, repair, or maintenance of an existing on-site
sewage disposal system in a floodway area shall meet the applicable
requirements of all municipal ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 116.
      (3)   No new well or modification to an existing well used to obtain
potable water shall be allowed in a floodway area. Any replacement, repair, or
maintenance of an existing well in a floodway area shall meet the applicable
requirements of all municipal ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code Ch. NR 811 and
Ch. NR 812.
   (C)   Floodfringe areas.
      (1)   No modification or addition shall be allowed to any nonconforming
structure or any structure with a nonconforming use unless such modification or
addition has been granted a permit or variance by the municipality, and the
modification or addition shall be placed on fill or floodproofed to the flood
protection elevation in compliance with the standards for that particular use
in §
152.32(C) of this subchapter, except where division (C)(2) below is applicable.
      (2)   Where compliance with the provisions of division (C)(1) above would
result in unnecessary hardship and only where the structure will not be used
for human habitation or be associated with a high flood damage potential, the
Board of Adjustment/Appeals, using the procedures established in §
152.48 of this chapter, may grant a variance from those provisions of division
(C)(1) above for modifications or additions, using the criteria listed below.
Modifications or additions which are protected to elevations lower than the
flood protection elevation may be permitted if:
         (a)   No floor is allowed below the regional flood elevation for
residential or commercial structures;
         (b)   Human lives are not endangered;
         (c)   Public facilities, such as water or sewer, will not be
installed;
         (d)   Flood depths will not exceed two feet;
         (e)   Flood velocities will not exceed two feet per second; and
         (f)   The structure will not be used for storage of materials as
described in §
152.32(C)(5) of this subchapter.
      (3)   If neither the provisions of divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) above can
be met, one addition to an existing room in a nonconforming building or a
building with a nonconforming use may be allowed in the floodfringe, if the
addition:
         (a)   Meets all other regulations and will be granted by permit or
variance;
         (b)   Does not exceed 60 square feet in area; and
         (c)   In combination with other previous modifications or additions to
the building, does not equal or exceed 50% of the present equalized assessed
value of the building.
      (4)   All new private sewage disposal systems, or addition to,
replacement, repair, or maintenance of a private sewage disposal system shall
meet all the applicable provisions of all local ordinances and Wis. Admin. Code
Ch. NR 116.
      (5)   All new wells, or addition to, replacement, repair, or maintenance
of a well shall meet the applicable provisions of this chapter and Wis. Admin.
Code Ch. NR 811 and Ch. NR 812.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.45 GENERALLY.
   Where a Zoning Administrator, Planning Agency, or a Board of Adjustment/
Appeals has already been appointed to administer a zoning ordinance adopted
under Wis. Stat. §§ 59.69, 59.692, or 62.23(7), these officials shall also
administer this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.46 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to administer this chapter and
shall have the following duties and powers:
      (1)   Advise applicants of the ordinance provisions, assist in preparing
permit applications and appeals, and assure that the regional flood elevation
for the proposed development is shown on all permit applications;
      (2)   Issue permits and inspect properties for compliance with provisions
of this chapter, and issue certificates of compliance where appropriate;
      (3)   Inspect all damaged floodplain structures and perform a substantial
damage assessment to determine if substantial damage to the structures has
occurred;
      (4)   Keep records of all official actions such as:
         (a)   All permits issued, inspections made, and work approved;
         (b)   Documentation of certified lowest floor and regional flood
elevations for floodplain development;
         (c)   Records of water surface profiles, floodplain zoning maps and
ordinances, nonconforming uses, and structures, including changes, appeals,
variances, and amendments; and
         (d)   All substantial damage assessment reports for floodplain
structures.
      (5)   Submit copies of the following items to the department regional
office:
         (a)   Within ten days of the decision, a copy of any decisions on
variances, appeals for map or text interpretations, and map or text amendments;
         (b)   Copies of any case-by-case analyses, and any other information
required by the Department including an annual summary of the number and types
of floodplain zoning actions taken.
         (c)   Copies of substantial damage assessments performed and all
related correspondence concerning the assessments.
      (6)   Investigate, prepare reports, and report violations of this chapter
to the municipal zoning agency and attorney for prosecution. Copies of the
reports shall also be sent to the department regional office; and
      (7)   Submit copies of text and map amendments and biennial reports to
the FEMA regional office.
   (B)   Land use permit. A land use permit shall be obtained before any new
development or any structural repair or change in the use of a building or
structure, including sewer and water facilities, may be initiated. Application
to the Zoning Administrator shall include:
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant, property owner, and
contractor; and
         (b)   Legal description, proposed use, and whether it is new
construction or a modification.
      (2)   Site development plan. A site plan drawn to scale shall be
submitted with the permit application form and shall contain:
         (a)   Location, dimensions, area, and elevation of the lot;
         (b)   Location of the ordinary highwater mark of any abutting
navigable waterways;
         (c)   Location of any structures with distances measured from the lot
lines and street center lines;
         (d)   Location of any existing or proposed on-site sewage systems or
private water supply systems;
         (e)   Location and elevation of existing or future access roads;
         (f)   Location of floodplain and floodway limits as determined from
the official floodplain zoning maps;
         (g)   The elevation of the lowest floor of proposed buildings and any
fill using the vertical datum from the adopted study, either National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD);
         (h)   Data sufficient to determine the regional flood elevation in
NGVD or NAVD at the location of the development and to determine whether or not
the requirements of §§
152.31 or
152.32 of this chapter are met; and
         (i)   Data to determine if the proposed development will cause an
obstruction to flow or an increase in regional flood height or discharge
according to §
152.30(A) of this chapter. This may include any of the information noted in §
152.31(C)(1) of this chapter.
      (3)   Data requirements to analyze developments.
         (a)   The applicant shall provide all survey data and computations
required to show the effects of the project on flood heights, velocities, and
floodplain storage, for all subdivision proposals, as “subdivision” is defined
in Wis. Stat. Ch. 236 and other proposed developments exceeding five acres in
area or where the estimated cost exceeds $125,000. The applicant shall provide:
            1.   An analysis of the effect of the development on the regional
flood profile, velocity of flow, and floodplain storage capacity;
            2.   A map showing location and details of vehicular access to
lands outside the floodplain; and
            3.   A surface drainage plan showing how flood damage will be
minimized.
         (b)   The estimated cost of the proposal shall include all structural
development, landscaping, access and road development, utilities, and other
pertinent items, but need not include land costs.
      (4)   Expiration. All permits issued under the authority of this chapter
shall expire 365 days after issuance.
   (C)   Certificate of compliance. No land shall be occupied or used, and no
building which is hereafter constructed, altered, added to, modified, repaired,
rebuilt, or replaced shall be occupied until a certificate of compliance is
issued by the Zoning Administrator, except where no permit is required, subject
to the following provisions:
      (1)   The certificate of compliance shall show that the building or
premises or part thereof, and the proposed use, conform to the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Application for such certificate shall be concurrent with the
application for a permit;
      (3)   If all ordinance provisions are met, the certificate of compliance
shall be issued within ten days after written notification that the permitted
work is completed; and
      (4)   The applicant shall submit a certification signed by a registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor that the fill, lowest floor,
and floodproofing elevations are in compliance with the permit issued.
Floodproofing measures also require certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect that floodproofing measures meet the requirements of §
152.50 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Other permits. The applicant must secure all necessary permits from
federal, state, and local agencies, including those required by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers under § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.47 ZONING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall:
      (1)   Oversee the functions of the office of the Zoning Administrator;
and
      (2)   Review and advise the governing body on all proposed amendments to
this chapter, maps, and text.
   (B)   The Zoning Agency shall not:
      (1)   Grant variances to the terms of the ordinance in place of action by
the Board of Adjustment/Appeals; or
      (2)   Amend the text or zoning maps in place of official action by the
governing body.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.48 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT/APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment/Appeals, created under Wis. Stat. § 62.23(7)(e) is
hereby authorized or shall be appointed to act for the purposes of this
chapter. The Board shall exercise the powers conferred by the state statutes
and adopt rules for the conduct of business. The Zoning Administrator may not
be the secretary of the Board.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment/Appeals shall:
      (1)   Appeals: hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement or administration of this chapter;
      (2)   Boundary disputes: hear and decide disputes concerning the district
boundaries shown on the official floodplain zoning map; and
      (3)   Variances: hear and decide, upon appeal, variances from the
ordinance standards.
   (B)   Appeals to the Board.
      (1)   Appeals to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any
officer or department of the village affected by any decision of the Zoning
Administrator or other administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken
within 30 days, unless otherwise provided by the rules of the Board, by filing
with the official whose decision is in question, and with the Board, a notice
of appeal specifying the reasons for the appeal. The official whose decision is
in question shall transmit to the Board all records regarding the matter
appealed.
      (2)   Notice and hearing for appeals including variances.
         (a)   Notice. The Board shall:
            1.   Fix a reasonable time for the hearing;
            2.   Publish adequate notice pursuant to the state statutes,
specifying the date, time, place, and subject of the hearing; and
            3.   Assure that notice shall be mailed to the parties in interest
and the department regional office at least ten days in advance of the hearing.
         (b)   Hearing. Any party may appear in person or by agent. The Board
shall:
            1.   Resolve boundary disputes according to division (C) below;
            2.   Decide variance applications according to division (D) below;
and
            3.   Decide appeals of permit denials according to §
152.49 of this subchapter.
      (3)   Decision. The final decision regarding the appeal or variance
application shall:
         (a)   Be made within a reasonable time;
         (b)   Be sent to the department regional office within ten days of the
decision;
         (c)   Be a written determination signed by the chairman or secretary
of the Board;
         (d)   State the specific facts which are the basis for the Board’s
decision;
         (e)   Either affirm, reverse, vary, or modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed, in whole or in part, dismiss the appeal
for lack of jurisdiction, or grant or deny the variance application; and
         (f)   Include the reasons for granting an appeal, describing the
hardship demonstrated by the applicant in the case of a variance, clearly
stated in the recorded minutes of the Board proceedings.
   (C)   Boundary disputes. The following procedure shall be used by the Board
in hearing disputes concerning floodplain district boundaries.
      (1)   If a floodplain district boundary is established by approximate or
detailed floodplain studies, the flood elevations or profiles shall prevail in
locating the boundary. If none exist, other evidence may be examined.
      (2)   In all cases, the person contesting the boundary location shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to present arguments and technical evidence to
the Board.
      (3)   If the boundary is incorrectly mapped, the Board should inform the
zoning committee or the person contesting the boundary location to petition the
governing body for a map amendment according to §
152.18 of this chapter.
   (D)   Variance.
      (1)   The Board may, upon appeal, grant a variance from the standards of
this chapter if an applicant convincingly demonstrates that:
         (a)   Literal enforcement of the ordinance provisions will cause
unnecessary hardship;
         (b)   The hardship is due to adoption of the floodplain ordinance and
unique property conditions, not common to adjacent lots or premises. In such
case, the ordinance or map must be amended;
         (c)   The variance is not contrary to the public interest; and
         (d)   The variance is consistent with the purpose of this chapter in §
152.03 of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition to the criteria in division (D)(1) above, to qualify
for a variance under FEMA regulations, the following criteria must be met:
         (a)   The variance may not cause any increase in the regional flood
elevation;
         (b)   Variances can only be granted for lots that are less than one-
half acre and are contiguous to existing structures constructed below the RFE;
and
         (c)   Variances shall only be granted upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause, shall be the minimum relief necessary, shall not cause
increased risks to public safety or nuisances, shall not increase costs for
rescue and relief efforts, and shall not be contrary to the purpose of the
ordinance.
      (3)   A variance shall not:
         (a)   Grant, extend, or increase any use prohibited in the zoning
district;
         (b)   Be granted for a hardship based solely on an economic gain or
loss;
         (c)   Be granted for a hardship which is self-created;
         (d)   Damage the rights or property values of other persons in the
area;
         (e)   Allow actions without the amendments to this chapter or map(s)
required in §
152.18(A) of this chapter; and
         (f)   Allow any alteration of an historic structure, including its
use, which would preclude its continued designation as an historic structure.
      (4)   When a floodplain variance is granted, the Board shall notify the
applicant in writing that it may increase flood insurance premiums and risks to
life and property. A copy shall be maintained with the variance record.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.49 REVIEW APPEALS OF PERMIT DENIALS.
   (A)   The Zoning Agency (§
152.47 of this subchapter) or Board shall review all data related to the
appeal. This may include:
      (1)   Permit application data listed in §
152.46(B) of this chapter;
      (2)   Floodway/floodfringe determination data in §
152.33(D) of this chapter;
      (3)   Data listed in §
152.31(C)(1)(b) of this chapter where the applicant has not submitted this
information to the Zoning Administrator; and
      (4)   Other data submitted with the application or submitted to the Board
with the appeal.
   (B)   For appeals of all denied permits, the Board shall:
      (1)   Follow the procedures of §
152.48 of this subchapter;
      (2)   Consider Zoning Agency recommendations; and
      (3)   Either uphold the denial or grant the appeal.
   (C)   For appeals concerning increases in regional flood elevation, the
Board shall:
      (1)   Uphold the denial where the Board agrees with the data showing an
increase in flood elevation. Increases equal to or greater than 0.01-foot may
only be allowed after amending the flood profile and map and all appropriate
legal arrangements are made with all adversely affected property owners; and
      (2)   Grant the appeal where the Board agrees that the data properly
demonstrates that the project does not cause an increase equal to or greater
than 0.01-foot provided no other reasons for denial exist.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.50 FLOODPROOFING.
   (A)   No permit or variance shall be issued until the applicant submits a
plan certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that the
floodproofing measures will protect the structure or development to the flood
protection elevation.
   (B)   Floodproofing measures shall be designed to:
      (1)   Withstand flood pressures, depths, velocities, uplift and impact
forces, and other regional flood factors;
      (2)   Protect structures to the flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Anchor structures to foundations to resist flotation and lateral
movement; and
      (4)   Ensure that structural walls and floors are watertight to the flood
protection elevation, and the interior remains completely dry during flooding
without human intervention.
   (C)   Floodproofing measures could include:
      (1)   Reinforcing walls and floors to resist rupture or collapse caused
by water pressure;
      (2)   Adding mass or weight to prevent flotation;
      (3)   Placing essential utilities above the flood protection elevation;
      (4)   Installing surface or subsurface drainage systems to relieve
foundation wall and basement floor pressures;
      (5)   Constructing water supply wells and waste treatment systems to
prevent the entry of flood waters; or
      (6)   Putting cutoff valves on sewer lines or eliminating gravity flow
basement drains.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.51 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (A)   Place marks on structures to show the depth of inundation during the
regional flood.
   (B)   All maps, engineering data, and regulations shall be available and
widely distributed.
   (C)   All real estate transfers should show what floodplain zoning district
any real property is in.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter by any person shall be
unlawful and shall be referred to the Village Attorney who shall expeditiously
prosecute all such violators. A violator shall, upon conviction, forfeit to the
village a penalty not more than $50, together with a taxable cost of such
action. Each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense.
Every violation of this chapter is a public nuisance and the creation may be
enjoined and the maintenance may be abated by action at suit of the
municipality, the state, or any citizen thereof pursuant to Wis. Stat. § 87.30.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2010)
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Authority
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Scope
   
153.04   Adoption of Wisconsin codes
   
153.05   Building Inspector
   
153.06   Residential building permit required
   
153.07   Commercial building code permit required
   
153.08   Building permit fee
   
153.09   Building Inspector log
   
153.10   Expiration of permit
   
153.11   Occupancy permits
   
153.12   Right of entry
   
153.13   Unsafe buildings
   
153.14   Petitions for variance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Wis. Stat. § 101.65
and Wis. Stat. § 101.12.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the general health, safety, and
welfare and to maintain required local uniformity with the administrative and
technical requirements of the Wisconsin Uniform Dwelling Code and Commercial
Building Codes.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.03 SCOPE.
   The scope of this chapter includes the construction and inspection of one-
and two-family dwellings built since June 1, 1980 and all commercial buildings
and structures.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.04 ADOPTION OF WISCONSIN CODES.
   The Wisconsin Uniform Dwelling Code, Wis. Admin. Code Ch. SPS 320 to 325,
and Ch. 327, and all amendments thereto, is adopted and incorporated by
reference and shall apply to all buildings within the scope of this chapter.
The following Wisconsin Administrative Codes, their referenced codes and
standards, and subsequent revisions are adopted for municipal enforcement by
the Building Inspector, who shall be commercially certified by the WI Division
of Industry Services: Chs. SPS 360-366 Wisconsin Commercial Building Code; Chs.
SPS 375-379 Buildings Constructed Prior to 1914 Code; Chs. SPS 316 Electrical;
Chs. SPS 381-387 Plumbing; and Chs. SPS 327 Camping Units.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.05 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created the position of Building Inspector(s), who shall
administer and enforce this chapter. The Building Inspector authorized by the
municipality to enforce the adopted codes shall be properly certified by the
State of Wisconsin Division of Industry Services.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.06 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   If a person alters a building in excess of $1,000 value in any 12-month
period, adds onto a building in excess of $1,000 in any 12-month period, or
builds or installs a new building, within the scope of this chapter, they shall
first obtain a building permit for such work from the Building Inspector. Any
structural changes or major changes to mechanical systems that involve
extensions shall require permits if over the forgoing thresholds. Restoration
or repair of an installation to its previous code-compliant condition as
determined by the Building Inspector is exempted from permit requirements.
Residing, re-roofing, finishing of interior surfaces, and installation of
cabinetry shall be exempted from permit requirements.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 COMMERCIAL BUILDING CODE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall build or cause to be built any new public building or place
of employment or any alteration or addition to an existing public building or
place of employment without first obtaining a commercial building permit from
the building inspector. This permit shall be issued after receipt of State of
Wisconsin approved plans, where required, and sanitary permits, if applicable,
and a determination has been made of compliance with, zoning, setbacks,
ordinances, and regulations of the Village of Pepin, the County of Pepin, and
the State of Wisconsin.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.08 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   The building permit fees shall be determined by resolution and shall include
the applicable fee per the Wisconsin Administrative Code for a UDC permit that
shall be assigned to any new dwelling. The building permit fees shall be
determined by resolution. The building permit fee shall be doubled for any
project requiring a permit which is commenced without a permit or prior to the
issuance of a permit.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.09 BUILDING INSPECTOR LOG.
   The Building Inspector shall keep a log of all inspections completed.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.10 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   Work to be done pursuant to the permit must be commenced within six months
of the date of issuance or the permit shall expire not withstanding work
pursuant to SPS 316 which shall expire within one year of the date of issuance
if work has not been commenced. All work to be done pursuant to the permit must
be completed within two years of the date of issuance; permits shall expire two
years from the date of issuance. Additional inspection fees may be required for
extension or expansion of the initial permit.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.11 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   No single-family dwelling or multiple-family dwelling or commercial
structure may be occupied by any person or party until an occupancy permit has
been issued. An occupancy permit will be issued only after all inspections have
been satisfactorily completed, all required fees associated with this chapter
paid, and all required terms of the ordinance have been met.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.12 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Inspector may, at all reasonable hours, upon 24 hours prior
notice, enter upon any public or private premises for inspection purposes, and
may require the production of the permit for any building, plumbing,
electrical, or heating work. No person shall interfere with, or refuse access
to any such premises, the Building Inspector while in the performance of his
duties.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.13 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds any building or part thereof with the
Village of Pepin to be, in his or her judgment, so old, dilapidated, or out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary, unreasonable to repair or
otherwise unfit for human habitation, occupancy, or use, shall order the owner
to raze and remove such building or part thereof. If a building or part thereof
can be made safe by repairs, the owner shall make it safe and sanitary. The
owner shall perform the remedial action in a timely fashion at their own
expense.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.14 PETITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   Any person feeling aggrieved by an order, or a determination of the Building
Inspector, may appeal such order or determination to the Village Board. Those
procedures customarily used to effectuate an appeal to the Village Board shall
apply.
(Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   The enforcement of this chapter and all other laws and ordinances relating
to building shall be by means of the withholding of building permits,
imposition of forfeitures, and injunctive action. Forfeitures shall be not less
than $25 nor more than $1,000 for each day of noncompliance.
(Ord. 153, passed 9-13-2010; Res. 2023-0814, passed 8-15-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed  Description
                        Purchasing real estate commencing at the northeast
83       12-4-1967      corner of Fourth Street as presently laid in the
                        village for street purposes.
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Wisconsin Statutes
References to 1999 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO WISCONSIN STATUTES
Wis. Stat. Section Code Section
Wis. Stat. Section              Code Section
13.48(13)                       152.12
14.85                           151.096
23.33(13)(a)                    130.16
23.33(5)(b)                     72.58
23.33(8)(b),(11)                72.56
23.33(8)(d)                     72.58
23.33(13)(a)                    72.99
30.11                           152.05
30.2022                         152.12
30.37                           30.01
30.38                           30.11
30.50 through 30.71             93.19
30.80                           93.99
Ch. 30                          152.30,
                                152.31
Ch. 31                          152.30,
                                152.31
59.69                           151.099,
                                152.45
59.692                          152.45
61.34                           151.095
                                151.002,
61.35                           152.01,
                                152.13
61.54                           34.01
62.15                           34.01
                                151.002,
62.23                           152.01,
                                152.18
62.23(7)                        152.45
62.23(7)(c)                     51.02
62.23(7)(e)                     152.48
62.23(7)(h)                     152.34
66.0111                         72.22
66.0114                         70.20,
                                72.22
66.0114(1)(b)                   72.22
66.0119                         50.04
66.0175(1m)(c),(d)              30.40
66.0413                         151.058
66.0615                         30.40,
                                112.02
66.0615(1)(a)                   30.41
66.0615(1)(bs)                  115.02
66.0615(1)(fm)                  30.42
66.0615(1m)(c)                  30.40
66.0615(2)                      112.03
66.0701                         32.15
66.0701(2)                      32.20
66.0703                         94.15
66.0703(12)                     32.20
66.0907(3)(f),(5)               94.15
66.60                           32.20
66.615(3)(f),(5)                94.15
Ch. 68                          50.06,
                                50.07
68.07 through 68.16             111.06
70.67(2)                        32.01
77.51(4)(a)                     112.01
77.51(4)(a),(b),(c)             30.42
77.52(2)(a)1.                   112.02
84.107(1)                       151.096
87.30                           152.01,
                                152.13
87.30(2)                        151.999
101.12                          153.01
101.65                          153.01
125.01 through 125.33           110.15
125.01 through 125.51           110.40
125.04(3)                       110.19,
                                110.44
125.04(4)                       110.21,
                                110.47
125.04(5)                       110.17
125.04(12)(b)                   110.48
125.06                          110.16
125.12                          110.24,
                                110.52
125.17                          110.23
125.51 through 125.70           110.40
125.51(1)(c)                    110.19,
                                110.44
125.51(4)                       110.42
125.68(5)                       110.46
Ch. 139                         110.54
165.87                          93.99
167.10                          130.01
202.12                          111.03
Ch. 226                         110.17,
                                110.18
Ch. 236                         152.46
236.02(12)                      32.16,
                                152.05
Ch. 251                         110.27,
                                110.55
254.64                          115.03
254.916                         130.13
254.916(3)                      130.13
254.92(2)(a)                    130.14
302.46(1)                       93.99
Ch. 340 to 348                  70.01
340.01                          70.01
341.04(3)                       70.01
341.08(6)                       70.01
341.11(4)                       70.01
341.15                          70.01
341.16(4)                       70.01
341.51(5)                       70.01
341.55                          70.01
341.57(3)                       70.01
341.61                          70.01
341.62                          70.01
341.63                          70.01
341.65                          91.02
342.05(4)                       70.01
342.06(3)                       70.01
342.15(5),(6),(7)               70.01
342.16(3)                       70.01
342.23                          70.01
342.30                          70.01
342.31                          70.01
342.33                          70.01
342.34                          70.01
342.40                          91.17
342.40(3)                       91.02
343.01                          70.01
343.10(6)                       70.01
343.12(3)                       70.01
343.19(2)                       70.01
343.22(2)                       70.01
343.305                         70.01
343.35                          70.01
343.45 to 343.46                70.01
343.60 to 343.72                70.01
343.73                          70.01
344.01                          70.01
344.45 et seq.                  70.01
344.51                          70.01
345.01                          70.01
345.11                          72.22
345.17                          70.01
345.20 to 345.53                70.01,
                                70.20
345.20 through 345.53           70.99
345.55                          70.01
346.01                          70.01
346.02                          70.01
346.02(10)                      72.15
346.03                          70.01
346.04                          72.15
346.04(1),(2)                   70.01
346.06                          72.15
346.06 to 346.16                70.01
346.11                          72.15
346.14(1m)                      72.15
346.17                          70.01
346.18 to 346.21                70.01,
                                72.15
346.215(3)                      72.15
346.22                          70.01
346.23 to 346.29                70.01
346.26                          72.15
346.27                          72.15
346.30                          70.01
346.31 to 346.35                70.01
346.33                          72.15
346.35                          72.15
346.36                          70.01
346.37                          72.15
346.37 to 346.42                70.01
346.39                          72.15
346.40                          72.15
346.41                          70.03
346.43                          70.01
346.44                          72.15
346.44 to 346.48                70.01
346.46 to 346.48                72.15
346.49                          70.01
346.50 to 346.55                70.01
346.50(1)(b)                    72.15
346.51 to 346.55                72.15
346.56                          70.01
346.57                          70.02
346.57(2),(3),(4)(a) to (c)     70.01
346.57(4)(d),(5),(6) to 346.595 70.01
346.58                          70.02
346.59                          70.02
346.60                          70.01
346.60(3)                       70.01
346.61                          70.01
346.62(1),(3)                   70.01
346.63(1),(3),(4)               70.01
346.64                          70.01
346.65(1),(2)                   70.01
343.66                          70.01
346.68                          70.01
346.69                          70.01
346.70(1),(2),(3)               70.01
346.70(4)                       70.01
346.70(5)                       70.01
346.71                          70.01
346.72                          70.01
346.73                          70.01
346.74(1)                       70.01
346.74(2)                       70.01
346.74(3)                       70.01
346.74(4)                       70.01
346.77 to 346.804               70.01
346.77 to 346.81                70.01
346.80                          72.01
346.82                          70.01
346.87 to 346.91                72.15
346.87 to 346.94                70.01
346.92(1)                       72.15
346.935                         70.01
346.94(1),(9)                   72.15
346.95                          70.01
347.01 to 347.05                70.01
347.06 to 347.29                70.01
347.30                          70.01
347.35 to 347.49                70.01
347.50                          70.01
347.89                          70.01
348.01 to 348.02                70.01
348.05 to 348.10                70.01
348.11                          70.01
348.15 to 348.20                70.01
348.21                          70.01
348.25 to 348.27                70.01
348.28                          70.01
349.09                          70.03
350.01                          72.15
350.02                          72.15,
                                72.16
350.03                          72.15
350.04                          72.15,
                                72.16
350.045                         72.15,
                                72.16
350.05                          72.15
350.055                         72.15
350.07                          72.15
350.08                          72.15
350.09                          72.15
350.10                          72.15
350.12                          72.15
350.13                          72.15,
                                72.16
350.15                          72.15
350.17                          72.15
350.19                          72.15
Ch. 799                         70.20,
                                72.22
814.63                          10.99
Ch. 823                         92.04
895.035                         130.98
941.01(1)                       70.01
943.14                          130.16
944.21(2)(c),(d)                130.05
961.571                         130.15
Ch. 985                         72.21 ,
                                152.05
                                
 
REFERENCES TO 1999 CODE
1999 Code Section 2022 Code Section
1999 Code Section 2022 Code Section
10.01             10.01
10.02             10.02
10.03             10.03
10.04             10.04
10.05             10.05
10.06             10.06
10.07             10.07
10.08             10.08
10.09             10.09
10.10             10.10
10.11             10.11
10.12             10.12
10.13             10.13
10.14             10.14
10.15             10.15
10.16             10.16
10.17             10.17
10.99             10.99
11.01             11.01
31.01             30.01
31.02             30.02
31.03             30.03
31.04             30.04
31.05             30.05
31.06             30.06
31.07             30.07
31.08             30.08
31.09             30.09
31.10             30.10
31.11             30.11
31.12             30.12
32.01             31.01
32.15             31.15
32.16             31.16
32.17             31.17
32.18             31.18
32.19             31.19
32.20             31.20
32.21             31.21
32.22             31.22
33.01             32.15
33.02             32.16
33.03             32.17
33.04             32.18
33.05             32.19
33.06             32.20
35.01             34.01
50.01             50.01
50.02             50.02
50.03             50.03
50.04             50.04
50.05             50.06
50.15             50.20
50.16             50.21
50.17             50.22
50.18             50.23
50.19             50.24
70.01             70.01
70.02             70.02
70.03             70.03
70.04             70.04
70.15             70.20
70.99             70.99
71.01             71.01
71.10             71.15
71.11             71.16
71.12             71.17
71.13             71.18
72.01             72.01
72.15             72.15
72.16             72.16
72.17             72.17
72.18             72.18
72.19             72.19
72.20             72.20
72.21             72.21
72.22             72.22
72.25             71.30
72.26             71.31
72.27             71.32
72.40             71.45
72.41             71.46
72.99             71.99
90.01             90.01
90.02             90.02
90.03             90.03
90.04             90.04
90.05             90.05
90.06             90.05
90.07             90.07
90.08             90.08
90.09             90.09
90.10             90.10
90.11             90.11
90.12             90.12
90.60             90.25
90.61             90.26
90.62             90.27
90.63             90.28
90.64             90.28
90.65             90.30
91.01             91.01
91.02             91.02
91.15             91.15
91.16             91.16
91.17             91.17
91.18             91.18
91.19             91.19
91.99             91.99
92.01             92.01
92.02             92.02
92.03             92.03
92.04             92.04
92.05             92.05
93.01             93.01
93.15             93.15
93.16             93.16
93.17             93.17
93.18             93.18
93.19             93.19
93.20             93.20
93.21             93.21
93.22             93.22
93.23             93.23
93.24             93.24
93.25             93.25
93.99             93.99
94.01             94.01
94.15             94.15
94.16             94.16
94.99             94.99
95.01             95.01
95.02             95.02
95.03             95.03
110.01            110.01
110.15            110.15
110.16            110.16
110.17            110.17
110.18            110.18
110.19            110.19
110.20            110.20
110.21            110.21
110.22            110.22
110.23            110.23
110.24            110.24
110.25            110.25
110.26            110.26
110.27            110.27
110.28            110.28
110.40            110.40
110.41            110.41
110.42            110.42
110.43            110.43
110.44            110.44
110.45            110.45
110.46            110.46
110.47            110.47
110.48            110.48
110.49            110.49
110.50            110.50
110.51            110.51
110.52            110.52
110.53            110.53
110.54            110.54
110.55            110.55
111.01            111.01
111.02            111.02
111.03            111.03
111.04            111.04
111.05            111.05
111.06            111.06
111.07            111.07
111.08            111.08
130.01            130.01
130.02            130.02
130.03            130.03
130.04            130.04
130.05            130.05
130.06            130.06
130.07            130.07
130.08            130.08
130.09            130.09
130.10            130.10
130.11            130.11
130.20            130.25
130.21            130.26
130.35            130.40
130.36            130.41
130.37            130.42
130.98            130.98
130.99            130.99
150.01            150.01
150.02            150.02
150.03            150.03
150.04            150.04
150.05            150.05
150.06            150.06
150.07            150.07
150.08            150.08
151.01            151.001
151.02            151.002
151.03            151.003
151.04            151.004
151.05            151.005
151.06            151.006
151.07            151.007
151.08            151.008
151.09            151.009
151.20            151.020
151.21            151.021
151.22            151.022
151.35            151.035
151.36            151.036
151.37            151.037
151.38            151.039
151.39            151.040
151.50            151.055
151.51            151.056
151.52            151.057
151.53            151.058
151.54            151.059
151.55            151.060
151.56            151.061
151.70            151.075
151.71            151.076
151.72            151.077
151.73            151.078
151.74            151.079
151.75            151.080
151.99            151.999
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
20410       4-10-2000   30.25
–         12-10-2001  35.01
–         1-7-2002    32.01
2022-215    2-15-2022   30.40 -
                        30.43
2022-2152   2-15-2022   112.04
                        115.01 -
–         5-18-2022   115.10,
                        115.99
2023-0612-B 6-12-2023   31.23
                        153.01 -
2023-0814   8-15-2023   153.14,
                        153.99
2023-1211   12-11-2023  71.99
2024-0819   8-20-2024   151.060
2024-0819-2 8-20-2024   151.076
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
–       - -         95.01 -
                      95.03
–       - -         130.10,
                      130.11
–       4-19-1882   11.01
21        4-1-1929    130.09
22        6-2-1930    71.18
26        12-4-1933   90.08
58        10-4-1954   130.26
59        10-4-1954   130.42
75        11-3-1962   30.01 -
                      30.11
77        9-18-1963   130.08
78        9-18-1963   72.01,
                      72.99
83        12-4-1967   TSO I
84        8-5-1968    130.07
90        5-4-1970    150.01 -
                      150.08
                      93.15 -
92        6-1-1970    93.18,
                      93.99
102       10-27-1972  34.01
                      70.01 -
105       12-4-1972   70.04,
                      70.20,
                      70.99
                      72.15 -
108       1-8-1973    72.22,
                      72.99
105-A     10-7-1974   70.01
110       10-7-1974   93.01,
                      93.99
111       5-5-1975    90.03
114       10-6-1975   92.01 -
                      92.05
84-A      9-12-1977   130.07
92-A      9-12-1977   93.99
108-A     9-12-1977   72.99
84-B      8-7-1978    130.07
                      130.01 -
                      130.06,
118       10-9-1978   130.25,
                      130.40,
                      130.41,
                      130.98
119       12-4-1978   32.15 -
                      32.20
                      52.01,
120       12-3-1979   52.02,
                      52.99
122       9-10-1984   111.01 -
                      111.08
                      151.001 -
                      151.009,
                      151.021,
                      151.022,
                      151.035 -
                      151.037,
123       12-10-1984  151.039,
                      151.040,
                      151.055 -
                      151.061,
                      151.075 -
                      151.080,
                      151.999
123-A     4-1-1985    151.036
                      50.01 -
124       10-7-1985   50.04,
                      50.06
125       5-4-1987    110.01
126       10-13-1987  94.01
127       10-5-1987   110.15 -
                      110.28
128       10-5-1987   110.40 -
                      110.55
129       12-7-1987   50.20 -
                      50.24
90-B      5-9-1988    150.07
130       7-7-1992    94.15,
                      94.99
118-A     5-9-1994    130.03
108-B     6-7-1994    72.16,
                      72.17
                      91.01,
                      91.02,
131       11-6-1995   91.15 -
                      91.19,
                      91.99
–       - -1997     93.19
–       2-7-2000    130.12
                      112.01 -
–       12-4-2000   112.06,
                      112.99
–       12-20-2001  35.01
151.37(a) 11-10-2003  151.038
151.37(a) 11-8-2004   151.038
–       11-14-2005  93.01
                      152.01 -
                      152.18,
                      152.30 -
–       7-15-2010   152.34,
                      152.45 -
                      152.51,
                      152.99
                      33.01 -
–       8-9-2010    33.06,
                      33.20 -
                      33.20
–       9-13-2010   112.04
                      153.01 -
                      153.06,
153       9-13-2010   153.08,
                      153.09,
                      153.99
–       10-11-2010  73.01 -
                      73.08
–       10-10-2011  71.19
–       10-8-2012   90.04,
                      130.07
–       9-9-2013    31.23
–       9-9-2013    151.062
2013-9-1  9-9-2013    50.01 -
                      50.07
                      151.036,
                      151.063,
–       3-10-2014   151.095 -
                      151.108,
                      151.999
–       1-12-2015   151.063
–       1-19-2015   130.13 -
                      130.15
–       7-13-2015   130.16
–       - -2016     94.02
–       - -2016     151.064
                      72.65 -
–       3-14-2016   72.72,
                      72.99
–       10-10-2016  112.02
–       3-13-2017   151.036,
                      151.037
–       3-11-2019   71.20
                      72.55 -
–       3-11-2019   72.59,
                      72.99
                      72.35 -
–       4-8-2019    72.41,
                      72.99
–       5-13-2019   151.076
                      51.01 -
                      51.05,
–       7-8-2019    51.20 -
                      51.25,
                      51.40,
                      51.41
–       7-8-2019    130.13,
                      130.14
                      96.01 -
–       10-7-2019   96.03,
                      96.99
                      113.01,
–       10-7-2019   113.02,
                      113.04
                      93.40 -
–       - -2021     93.42,
                      93.99
–       4-26-2021   72.41
–       4-26-2021   111.04,
                      111.05
–       4-26-2021   113.01 -
                      113.06
                      72.35 -
–       5-1-2021    72.41,
                      72.99
–       - -2022     113.01 -
                      113.06
                      115.01 -
–       5-10-2022   115.10,
                      115.99
                      95.01 -
                      95.03,
–       6-7-2022    95.10 -
                      95.12,
                      95.99
                     
 
