THE COOKEVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE
Updated beginning September, 2011 and
current through August 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OF COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE
OFFICIALS
MAYOR
Laurin Wheaton
VICE MAYOR
Luke Eldridge
COUNCILMEMBERS
Ali Bagci
Eric Walker
Chad Gilbert
CITY MANAGER
James Mills
CITY CLERK
Darian Coons
 
PREFACE
   The Cookeville Municipal Code contains the codification and revision of the
ordinances of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee. By referring to the historical
citation appearing at the end of each section, the user can determine the
origin of each particular section. The absence of a historical citation means
that the section was added by the codifier. The word "modified" in the
historical citation indicates significant modification of the original
ordinance.
   The code is arranged into titles, chapters, and sections. Related matter is
kept together, so far as possible, within the same title. Each section number
is complete within itself, containing the title number, the chapter number, and
the section of the chapter of which it is a part. Specifically, the first
digit, followed by a hyphen, identifies the title number. The second digit
identifies the chapter number, and the last two digits identify the section
number. For example, title 2, chapter 1, section 6, is designated as section 2-
106.
   By utilizing the table of contents and the analysis preceding each title and
chapter of the code, together with the cross references and explanations
included as footnotes, the user should locate all the provisions in the code
relating to any question that might arise. However, the user should note that
most of the administrative ordinances (e.g. Annual Budget, Zoning Map
Amendments, Tax Assessments, etc...) do not appear in the code. Likewise,
ordinances that have been passed since the last update of the code do not
appear here. Therefore, the user should refer to the city's ordinance book or
the city clerk for a comprehensive and up to date review of the city's
ordinances.
ORDINANCE ADOPTION PROCEDURES PRESCRIBED BY THE CITY CHARTER
   . . . The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, "The council of the
City of Cookeville hereby ordains:" (Charter § 2.14)
   Each motion, resolution, and ordinance shall be in written form before being
introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three (3) members of the council
shall be required to pass any motion, resolution, or ordinance. Each ordinance,
before being adopted, shall be considered and passed at two meetings one week
apart, except that an emergency ordinance may be passed at two meetings only
one (1) day apart, and shall take effect ten (10) days after its adoption,
except that an ordinance containing a full statement of the facts and reasons
for an emergency may be made effective upon its adoption if approved by at
least four (4) members of the council on both readings. No ordinance relating
to a franchise, exclusive contract, or other special privilege shall be passed
as an emergency ordinance. Amendments of ordinances and resolutions or parts
thereof shall be accomplished only by setting forth the complete section,
sections, subsection, or subsections in their amended form. A code may be
adopted by an ordinance which contains a reference to its title, date, and
issuing organization, but the city shall furnish a copy of any such code to any
person for a reasonable fee. . . .
   An abstract of the essential provisions of each ordinance shall be published
once in the official city newspaper within ten (10) days after its adoption,
except that only the title shall be so published of a code adopted by reference
as provided in this section. (Charter § 2.15)
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE 1
1   Priv. Acts 1961, ch. 223, is the current basic charter act for the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee. The text of the basic charter act set out herein
includes all its amendments through the 2012 session of the Tennessee General
Assembly. Sections of the charter which have been amended contain at the end of
those sections the citation to the official private act or acts constituting
the amendment or amendments. No other changes have been made to the charter
except the addition of a table of contents to facilitate its use. A list of all
the private acts including the basic charter appears at the end of the charter.
Acts which did not expressly or in effect amend any particular section or part
of the basic charter, but which supplemented it, have been placed after the
basic charter act as "Related Private Acts." Acts of a temporary nature with no
general or continuing application, such as bond authorization and validation
acts have not been included in this compilation.
CHAPTER NO. 223
House Bill No. 816
(By Dero Brown)
   AN ACT to amend the Charter of Cookeville, Tennessee, being Chapter 542 of
the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee of 1903, and all
Acts amendatory thereto.
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Article I.
Amending Provision, Boundaries, Form of Government, Corporate Powers
   
1.01.   Amendment of charter
   
1.02.   City of Cookeville
   
1.03.   Corporate boundaries
   
1.04.   Form of government
   
1.05.   Corporate powers
Article II.
Mayor and Council
   
2.01.   Number, selection, term
   
2.02.   Qualifications
   
2.03.   Compensation
   
2.04.   Presiding officer; mayor
   
2.05.   Powers
   
2.06.   Appointment of city manager
   
2.07.   Removal of city manager
   
2.08.   Council not to interfere in appointments or removals
   
2.09.   Vacancies in council
   
2.10.   Creation of new departments or offices
   
2.11.   City clerk
   
2.12.   Induction of council into office; meetings of council
   
2.13.   Rules of procedure; journal
   
2.14.   Ordinances
   
2.15.   City legislation
   
2.16.   Permissive referendum; effective date of ordinances
   
2.17.   Independent annual audit
Article III.
The City Manager
   
3.01.   The city manager; qualifications
   
3.02.   The city manager; powers and duties
   
3.03.   Absence of city manager
   
3.04.   Administrative departments
   
3.05.   Directors of departments
   
3.06.   Departmental divisions
   
3.07.   Merit basis of appointment
Article IV.
Fiscal Administration
   
4.01.   Fiscal year
   
4.02.   City manager to submit annual budgets
   
4.03.   Contents of budgets
   
4.04.   Capital improvement budget
   
4.05.   Appropriation and additional revenue ordinances
   
4.06.   Copies of budget message and budgets
   
4.07.   Public hearing
   
4.08.   Action by city council
   
4.09.   Additional appropriations
   
4.10.   Appropriations to lapse
   
4.11.   Allotments
   
4.12.   Budgetary reports to council
   
4.13.   Penalty for unauthorized contract or expenditure
   
4.14.   Annual audit
   
4.15.   Centralized purchasing
   
4.16.   Allotments required; advance authorization for emergency purchases
   
4.17.   Powers and duties of purchasing agent
   
4.18.   Stocking supplies, materials, and equipment
   
4.19.   Who may make expenditures and contracts; bids
   
4.20.   Bonds for public works contracts
   
4.21.   Bid records to be preserved
   
4.22.   Exception to purchase governmental materials
   
4.23.   Sale of city property
   
4.24.   Official depository
Article V.
Taxation
   
5.01.   Property taxes; assessment date
   
5.02.   Property taxes on public service companies
   
5.03.   Responsible officers
   
5.04.   City may use county assessment or make assessment
   
5.05.   Procedure if county assessment is used
   
5.06.   Procedure if city assessment is made
   
5.07.   Powers and duties of the city assessor
   
5.08.   Board of equalization
   
5.09.   Procedure for review of assessments
   
5.10.   Tax levy
   
5.11.   Tax bills; failure to send does not invalidate tax
   
5.12.   When property taxes due and payable; penalty and interest
   
5.13.   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
5.14.   Lien for taxes
   
5.15.   Collection of merchants ad valorem taxes
   
5.16.   Mistakes or technicalities not to invalidate assessments; corrections
Article VI.
Borrowing and Bonds
   
6.01.   Notes in anticipation of current tax collections
   
6.02.   Purposes for which bonds may be issued
   
6.03.   Serial bonds
   
6.04.   Sinking funds
   
6.05.   Bond ordinance
   
6.06.   Title of bond ordinance; two or more projects may be included
   
6.07.   Procedure for adoption of bond ordinance; publication of notice
   
6.08.   Effective date of bond ordinance
   
6.09.   Period of limitations to challenge bond ordinance
   
6.10.   Determinations in bond ordinance conclusive
   
6.11.   Bonds may be callable
   
6.12.   Term of bonds not be exceed life of improvements
   
6.13.   Election required except for certain bonds
   
6.14.   Public sale
   
6.15.   Property tax levy to retire voted bonds
   
6.16.   Cancellation of retired bonds and paid interest coupons
   
6.17.   Supplementary nature of title VI
ARTICLE VIA.
Public Parking Facilities
   
6A.01.   Definitions
   
6A.02.   Provisions in this article are supplementary
   
6A.03.   Resolution for the project, notice of public hearing, etc
   
6A.04.   Public hearing; when referendum is required
   
6A.05.   Construction may be on bids or by city forces
   
6A.06.   Bond resolution
   
6A.07.   Bids for bonds
   
6A.08.   Disposition of bond funds
   
6A.09.   Bonds, bond security, etc
   
6A.10.   Basis of assessments
   
6A.11.   Assessments against public property
   
6A.12.   Payment of assessments; penalties and interest for delinquency
   
6A.13.   Assessments to constitute liens
   
6A.14.   Special fund for assessments
   
6A.15.   Disposition of collected assessments; calculation of annual
assessments, etc
   
6A.16.   Additional bonds or funds to cover deficiency
   
6A.17.   Refunding bonds
   
6A.18.   Use of parking facilities; disposition of revenues
   
6A.19.   Severability clause
   
6A.20.   Approval required
   
6A.21.   Date of effect
Article VII.
City Judge and City Court; City Attorney
   
7.01.   City court established; jurisdiction
   
7.02.   Appeals
   
7.03.   Warrant for each offense; exception
   
7.04.   Other officers may decide lesser traffic offenses
   
7.05.   Clerk of court and other employees
   
7.06.   Court docket
   
7.07.   City attorney
Article VIII.
Utilities
   
8.01.   Authority to own or operate public utility
   
8.02.   Accounting system
   
8.03.   Budgets and allotments
   
8.04.   Other laws and ordinances may apply
   
8.05.   Municipal utilities separate enterprises
Article IX.
Hospitals
   
9.01.   Board of trustees
Article X.
Nominations and Elections
   
10.01.   Municipal elections
   
10.02.   Regulation of elections
   
10.03.   Nominations
   
10.04.   Council ballots
   
10.05.   Voting machines
Article XI.
Initiative and Referendum
   
11.01.   Power of initiative
   
11.02.   Power of referendum
   
11.03.   Form of petitions: committee of petitioners
   
11.04.   Filing, examination and certification of petitions
   
11.05.   Amendment of petitions
   
11.06.   Effect of certification of referendum petition
   
11.07.   Consideration by council
   
11.08.   Submission to electors
   
11.09.   Form of ballot for initiated and referred ordinances
   
11.10.   Results of election
   
11.11.   Repealing ordinances: publication
Article XII.
[Deleted]
Article XIII.
Succession in Government
   
13.01.   Rights of officers and employees preserved
   
13.02.   Continuance of present officers
   
13.03.   Transfer of records and property
   
13.04.   Continuity of offices, departments and agencies
   
13.05.   Continuance of contracts and public improvement
   
13.06.   Pending actions and proceedings
Article XIV.
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
14.01.   Right of city manager and other officers in council
   
14.02.   Investigations by council or city manager
   
14.03.   Contracts extending beyond one year
   
14.04.   Publicity of records
   
14.05.   Conflicts of interest
   
14.06.   Official bonds
   
14.07.   Oath of office
   
14.08.   Penalties
   
14.09.   Repeal of laws in conflict
   
14.10.   Severability
   
14.11.   Local approval and date of applicability
   
14.12.   Effective date
PRIVATE CHAPTER NO. 49
HOUSE BILL NO. 2644
By Representatives Williams, Cameron Sexton
Substituted for: Senate Bid No. 2669
By Senator Bailey
   AN ACT to amend Chapter 49 of the Private Acts of 1999; as amended by
Chapter 115 of the Private Acts of 2000; Chapter 31 of the Private Acts of 2007
and Chapter 24 of the Private Acts of 2011; and any other acts amendatory
thereto, relative to the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority.
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, wishes to
request the deletion of the requirement that joint ownership arrangements of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority within Putnam and Clay County must
be on city owned property; and
   WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, wishes to
request that all joint ownership arrangements must be approved by the City
Council of the City of Cookeville; now, therefore,
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 49 of the Private Acts of 1999, as amended by Private
Chapter 115 of the Private Acts of 2000, and any other acts amendatory thereto,
is amended by deleting Section 9 in its entirety and substituting instead:
      The Board of Trustees shall have the responsibility and authority to
control and operate the hospital, clinical and health care facilities described
herein; to receive all revenues derived from such facilities, and any donations
or grants; to disburse all such monies to discharge the financial obligations
related to the facilities described in this act and otherwise as determined by
the Board of Trustees; to exercise the powers granted to private act hospital
authorities under 1996 Tenn. Pub. Acts, Ch. 778; to make contracts for goods
and services; to establish policies, rules and regulations governing the
operation of said hospital, its uses and its management; to define the duties
and establish the compensation of the administrator; to regulate admissions to
said hospital, clinical and health care facilities and establish reasonable
rates and charges for the services rendered by such facilities; and to collect
and receipt for the same. All monies of the authority shall be disbursed in
accordance with the rules and regulations adopted and determined by the Board
of Trustees, by check signed by the facility administrator. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of law, the authority of the Board of Trustees to enter into
joint ownership arrangements with other providers relative to health care
facilities shall be limited to those joint ownership arrangements approved by a
majority vote of the Cookeville City Council and subject to the terms and
conditions, or limitations, as the Cookeville City Council may prescribe in
said approval. Further, except for Putnam and Clay County, the authority of the
Board of Trustees to enter into joint ownership arrangements with other
providers relative to health care facilities shall be limited to those health
care facilities that are located on the campus of Cookeville Regional Medical
Center. For purposes of this Act, the campus of Cookeville Regional Medical
Center shall include real property owned by the City of Cookeville and on which
are located hospital, clinical or health care facilities. All joint ownership
arrangements shall be governed by and comply with all other provisions and
limitations set forth In Chapter 49 of the Private Acts of 1999, as amended by
Chapter 115 of the Private Acts of 2000, Chapter 31 of the Private Acts of
2007, and Chapter 24 of the Private Acts of 2011, including the limitations
from borrowing money in its own name without prior vote of the Cookeville City
Council and limitations with respect to the acquisition and ownership of real
property as provided in Chapter 115 of the Private Acts of 2000, and the
limitations of members of the Board of Trustees engaging in financial
transactions with any joint venture entity as provided in Chapter 24 of the
Private Acts of 2011. Said restrictions must be contained in any joint
ownership arrangement contract, as well as any charter, articles of
incorporation, bylaws, operating agreement and any other organizing document
for any entity created in furtherance of such joint ownership arrangement.
      In the exercise of its power, Cookeville Regional Medical Center may
acquire, manage, lease, purchase, sell, contract for or otherwise participate
solely or with others in the ownership or operation of hospital, medical or
health program properties and facilities subject to the limitations set forth
in Chapter 49 of the Private Acts of 1999 and Chapter 115 of the Private Acts
of 2000.
   SECTION 2. This act shall have no effect unless it is approved by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the Cookeville City Council. Its approval or nonapproval
shall be proclaimed by the presiding officer of the Cookeville City Council and
certified to the secretary of state.
   SECTION 3. For the purpose of approving or rejecting the provisions of this
act, It shall be effective upon becoming a law, the public welfare requiring
it. For all other purposes, it shall become effective as provided in Section 2.
                  HOUSE BILL NO. 2644
PASSED:  April 7, 2016
               Beth Harwell
               BETH HARWELL,
               SPEAKER HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
               Ron Ramsey
               RON RAMSEY
               SPEAKER OF THE SENATE
APPROVED this 19th day of April, 2016
Bill Haslam
BILL HASLAM, GOVERNOR
ARTICLE I.
AMENDING PROVISION, BOUNDARIES, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, CORPORATE POWERS.
SECTION 1.01. Amendment of Charter.
   Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Tennessee, That the
Charter of Cookeville, Tennessee, being Chapter 542, Acts of the General
Assembly of the State of Tennessee of 1903, and all acts amendatory thereto, be
and are hereby amended to read as provided in this Act, and thus amended to
read shall constitute the complete Charter.
SECTION 1.02. City of Cookeville.
   Be it further enacted, That the City of Cookeville in the County of Putnam,
and the inhabitants thereof be, and are hereby constituted a body politic and
corporate, under and by the name of the City of Cookeville, and by that name
shall have perpetual succession, may sue, be sued, plead and be impleaded,
grant, receive, purchase and hold real, mixed and personal property, or dispose
of the same for the benefit of said City, and may have and use a corporate
seal.
SECTION 1.03. Corporate Boundaries.
   Be it further enacted, That the corporate boundaries of the City of
Cookeville shall remain as fixed by Chapter 542, Acts of the General Assembly
of the State of Tennessee of 1903, and all acts amendatory thereto, and all
annexations or detachment of territory made pursuant to general law or charter
provision. 1
1   Annexations or detachments by ordinance are of record in the city clerk's
or the municipal planning office.
SECTION 1.04. Form of Government.
   Be it further enacted, That the municipal government provided by this Act
shall be known as the "councilmanager government". Pursuant to its provisions
and subject only to the limitations imposed by the state constitution and by
this Act, all powers of the city shall be vested in an elective council,
hereinafter referred to as "the council", which shall enact local legislature,
adopt budgets, determine policies, and appoint the city manager, who shall
execute the laws and administer the government of the city. All powers of the
city shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this Act, or if the manner
be not prescribed, then in such manner as may be prescribed by ordinance.
SECTION 1.05. Corporate Powers.
   Be, it further enacted, That the corporate powers of the city, to be
exercised by the city council, shall include the following:
      (a)   To levy and provide for the assessment and collection of taxes on
all property subject to taxation.
      (b)   To levy and provide for the collection of license taxes on
privileges, occupations, trades, and professions. A collection fee of One
Dollar ($1) may be added to each such license tax.
      (c)   To contract with persons, firms, or corporations who own and rent
property outside the corporate limits of the CITY OF COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, for
fire protection from the Fire Department of COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, for such
property upon the terms and conditions as the City Council in its discretion
best serves the public interest of the community. In answering any such calls
for fire protection contracted for, the CITY OF COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE, and its
officers and employees shall be considered as acting in a governmental capacity
and while engaged in any duty or activity in connection with the provisions of
any such contract, the officers and employees of the CITY OF COOKEVILLE,
TENNESSEE, shall be entitled to all rights, privileges, exemption, and
immunities as if such duty or activity were performed within the corporate
limits of the CITY OF COOKEVILLE, TENNESSEE.
      (d)   To appropriate and borrow money as authorized by this Act or by
other law.
      (e)   To acquire, dispose of, and hold in trust or otherwise any real,
personal, or mixed property, inside or outside the city.
      (f)   To condemn property, inside or outside the city, for present or
future use, under sections 23-1401 to 23-1541 of the Tennessee Code Annotated,
or under other applicable public acts.
      (g)   To acquire, operate, maintain, and dispose of public utilities,
subject to other provisions of this Act and other applicable general laws.
      (h)   To grant franchises or make contracts for public utilities and
public services, not to exceed a period of twenty years. The council may
prescribe the rates, fares, charges, regulations, and standards and conditions
of service to be provided by the franchise grantee or contractor.
      (i)   To regulate the rates and services of public utilities in so far as
not in conflict with such regulation by the Tennessee Public Service Commission
or other similar state or federal agency having jurisdiction in such matters.
      (j)   To provide for the acquisition, construction, building, operation,
and maintenance of public ways, parks, public grounds, cemeteries, markets, and
market houses, public buildings, libraries, sewers, drains, sewage treatment
plants, airports, hospitals, and charitable, educational, recreational, sport,
curative, corrective, detentional, penal, and medical institutions, agencies,
and facilities, and any other public improvements, inside or outside the city,
and to regulate the use thereof, and for such purposes property may be taken
under sections 23-1401 to 23-1541 and 6-1007 to 6-1011, inclusive, of the
Tennessee Code Annotated, or other applicable public acts.
      (k)   To require real estate owners to repair and maintain in a safe
condition the sidewalks adjoining their lots or lands. A real estate owner
shall be liable for any injury or damage sustained by reason of a defective
sidewalk adjoining his lot or land.
      (l)   To prescribe standards of health and sanitation and to provide for
the enforcement of such standards.
      (m)   To provide for the collection and disposal of garbage, rubbish,
refuse. Charges may be imposed to cover the costs of such service which, if
unpaid, shall constitute a lien against any property of persons served, which
lien shall be second in priority only to liens for county and city property
taxes and shall be enforceable in the same manner and under the same remedies
as a lien for city property taxes.
      (n)   To define, regulate, and prohibit any act, practice, conduct, or
use of property, detrimental, or likely to be detrimental, to the health,
morals, safety, security, peace, convenience, or general welfare of inhabitants
of the city.
      (o)   To establish minimum standards for and to regulate building
construction and repair, electrical wiring and equipment, gas installations and
equipment, plumbing, and housing, for the health, sanitation, cleanliness, and
safety of the inhabitants of the city, and to provide for the enforcement of
such standards.
      (p)   To regulate and license weights and measures.
      (q)   To provide that persons given jail sentences in the city court
shall work out such sentences on the streets or any public works of the city or
in a city workhouse established for such purpose, as provided by ordinance; or
the council may provide for the commitment of city prisoners to the county
workhouse or jail by agreement with the appropriate county officers.
      (r)   To regulate and license or prohibit the keeping or running at large
of animals and fowls, and to provide for the impoundment of same in violation
of any ordinance or lawful order and for their disposition by sale, gift, or
humane killing when not redeemed as provided by ordinance.
      (s)   To regulate and license vehicles operated for hire in the city, to
limit the number of such vehicles, to require the operators thereof to be
licensed, to require public liability insurance on such vehicles in amounts
prescribed by ordinance, and to regulate and rent parking spaces in public ways
for the use of such vehicles.
      (t)   To levy and provide for the collection of special assessments for
public improvements.
      (u)   To provide that the violation of any ordinance, rule, regulation,
or order shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
      (v)   To exercise and have all other powers, functions, rights,
privileges, and immunities necessary or desirable to promote or protect the
safety, health, peace, security, good order, comfort, convenience, morals, and
general welfare of the city and its inhabitants, and all implied powers
necessary to carry into execution all powers granted in this Act as fully and
completely as if such powers were fully enumerated herein. No enumeration of
particular powers in this Act shall be held to be exclusive of others nor
restrictive of general words and phrases granting powers, but shall be held to
be in addition to such powers unless expressly prohibited to cities under the
constitution or applicable public laws of the state. [As amended by Priv. Acts
2007, ch. 45, § 1]
ARTICLE II.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
SECTION 2.01. Number, Selection, Term.
   Be it further enacted, That there shall be a city council of five members
elected from the city at large in the manner provided in Article X, for the
terms prescribed in that Article. The five councilmen so elected shall serve
until their successors have been elected and take office, as provided in
Section
2.12. [As amended by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, § 2]
SECTION 2.02. Qualifications.
   Be it further enacted, that councilmen shall be qualified electors of the
city and shall resign from any municipal office or employment with the city of
Cookeville and from any elective public office held in any level of government
prior to induction in office as a councilman. If a councilman shall cease to
possess any of these qualifications or shall be convicted of crime involving
moral turpitude, his office shall immediately become vacant. [As amended by
Priv. Acts 1976, ch. 258, § 1]
SECTION 2.03. Compensation.
   The monthly salary of councilmen shall be approved by ordinance by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote by the city council. The council shall also be empowered to
establish by resolution the procedure for reimbursing councilmen for necessary
expenses incurred in connection with city business. [As amended by Priv. Acts
1967, ch. 485, § 1, and replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, § 3]
SECTION 2.04. Presiding officer; Mayor.
   Be it further enacted, That the Council shall elect an officer of the city
who shall have the title of mayor, shall preside at meetings of the council,
and shall be recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial
purposes and by the governor for purposes of military law, but shall have no
regular administrative duties. The council shall also elect a vice mayor who
shall act as mayor during the absence or disability of the mayor and if a
vacancy occur shall become mayor for the completion of the unexpired term. Both
the mayor and the vice mayor shall be elected from among the councilmen.
SECTION 2.05. Powers.
   Be it further enacted, That all powers of the city and the determination of
all matters of policy shall be vested in the council. Without limitation of the
foregoing, the council shall have power to:
   (1)   Appoint and remove the city manager;
   (2)   Establish other administrative departments and distribute the work of
divisions;
   (3)   Adopt the budget of the city;
   (4)   Authorize the issuance of bonds;
   (5)   Inquire into the conduct of any office, department or agency of the
city and make investigations as to municipal affairs;
   (6)   Appoint the members of the Hospital Board of Trusties;
   (7)   Appoint the members of the planning commission;
   (8)   Appoint the members of an Industrial Development Board;
   (9)   Appoint the members of the zoning board of appeals;
   (10)   Adopt plats;
   (11)   Adopt and modify the official map of the city;
   (12)   Regulate and restrict the height and number of stories of buildings
and other structures, the size of yards and courts, the density of populations
and the location and use of buildings for trade, industry, business, residence
or other purposes;
   (13)   Provide for safe and sanitary housing accommodations for families of
low income;
   (14)   Appoint the members of the housing authority, the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board, and any other boards or committees necessary;
   (15)   Adopt, modify and carry out plans proposed by the planning commission
for the clearance of slum districts and rehabilitation of blighted areas;
   (16)   Adopt, modify and carry out plans proposed by the planning commission
for the re-planning, improvement and redevelopment of neighborhoods and for the
re-planning, reconstruction or redevelopment of any area or district which may
have been destroyed in whole or in part by disaster; and
   (17)   Provide for an independent audit. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, §
4]
SECTION 2.06. Appointment of City Manager.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall appoint an officer of the city
who shall have the title of city manager and shall have the powers and perform
the duties in this charter provided. No councilman or former councilman shall
receive such appointment unless he shall have vacated the office of councilman
by resignation or otherwise at least one (1) year prior to receiving such
appointment. [As amended by Priv. Acts 1967, ch. 485, § 2]
SECTION 2.07. Removal of City Manager.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall appoint the city manager for
an indefinite term and may remove him by a majority vote of its members. At
least thirty (30) days before such removal shall become effective, the council
shall by a majority vote of its members adopt a preliminary resolution stating
the reasons for his removal. The manager may reply in writing and may request a
public hearing, which shall be held not earlier than twenty (20) days nor later
than thirty (30) days after the filing of such request. After such public
hearing, if one be requested, and after full consideration, the council by
majority vote of its members may adopt a final resolution of removal. By the
preliminary resolution the council may suspend the manager from duty, but shall
in any case cause to be paid him forthwith any unpaid balance of his salary and
his salary for the next calendar month following adoption of the preliminary
resolution.
SECTION 2.08. Council Not to Interfere in Appointments or Removals.
   Be it further enacted, That neither the council nor any of its members shall
direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from, office
by the city manager or by any of his subordinates, or in any manner take part
in the appointment or removal of officers and employes in the administrative
service of the city. A recommendation shall not constitute a violation of this
section. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall
deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager and
neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the city manager, either publicly or privately. Any councilman
violating the provisions of this section, or voting for resolution or ordinance
in violation of this section, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall cease to be a councilman.
SECTION 2.09. Vacancies in Council.
   Be it further enacted, that a vacancy shall exist if a councilman resigns,
dies, moves his residence from the city, has been continuously disabled for a
period of six (6) months so as to prevent him from discharging the duties of
his office, is elected to any other elective public office or accepts any
municipal office or employment with the city of Cookeville, or is convicted of
malfeasance or misfeasance in office, a felony, a violation of this charter, or
a violation of the election laws of the state. If a vacancy occurs, the
remaining council members shall appoint a replacement to serve the remainder of
the unexpired term. [As amended by Priv. Acts 1967, ch. 485, § 3; and replaced
by Priv. Acts 1976, ch. 258, § 2; and Priv. Acts 1988, ch. 187, § 1]
SECTION 2.10. Creation of new departments or offices.
   Be it further enacted, That the council by ordinance may create, change, and
abolish offices, departments or agencies.
SECTION 2.11. City Clerk.
   The city manager shall appoint an officer of the city who shall have the
title of city clerk, and shall be confirmed by the city council. The city clerk
shall give notice of council meetings, shall keep the journal of council
proceedings, shall authenticate by such clerk's signature and record in full in
a book kept for the purpose all ordinances and resolutions and shall perform
such other duties as shall be required by this charter or by ordinance. [As
replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, § 5]
SECTION 2.12. Induction of Council into Office; Meetings of Council.
   The first meeting of each newly elected council, for induction into office,
shall be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting following its election,
after which the council shall meet regularly at such times as may be prescribed
by its rules, but not less frequently than once each month. All meetings of the
council shall be open to the public. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, §
6]
SECTION 2.13. Rules of Procedure; Journal.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall determine its own rules and
order of business. It shall keep a journal of its proceedings and the journal
shall be open to public inspection.
SECTION 2.14. Ordinances.
   Be it further enacted, That in addition to such acts of the council as are
required by statute or by this charter to be by ordinance, every act of the
council establishing a fine or other penalty, or providing for the expenditure
of funds, or for the contracting of indebtedness under this Act, shall be by
ordinance. The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be, "The council of the
City of Cookeville hereby ordains:" [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, §
1]
SECTION 2.15. City Legislation.
   Any action of the council having a regulatory or penal effect, relating to
revenue or the expenditure of money, or required to be done by ordinance under
this act, shall be done only by ordinance. A resolution shall have a brief
title describing its contents and a body containing its detailed provisions,
but a motion shall consist only of a brief statement of the action proposed to
the council. Each resolution and ordinance shall be in written form before
being introduced. The affirmative vote of at least three (3) members of the
council shall be required to pass any motion, resolution, or ordinance. Each
ordinance, before being adopted, shall be considered and passed at two (2)
meetings one (1) week apart, except that an emergency ordinance may be passed
at two (2) meetings only one (1) day apart, and shall take effect fourteen (14)
days after its adoption, except that an ordinance containing a full statement
of the facts and reasons for an emergency may be made effective upon its
adoption if approved by at least four (4) members of the council on both
readings. No ordinance relating to a franchise, exclusive contract, or other
special privilege shall be passed as an emergency ordinance. Amendments of
ordinances and resolutions or parts thereof shall be accomplished only by
setting forth the complete section, sections, subsection, or subsections in
their amended form. A code may be adopted by an ordinance, which contains a
reference to its title, date, and, issuing organization, but the city shall
furnish a copy of any such code to any person for a reasonable fee. The city
clerk shall number ordinances consecutively in the order of their adoption and
shall copy them into a permanent record book used solely for this purpose, and
the city clerk shall do likewise for resolutions, using a separate series of
numbers and a separate record book. The original copies of all ordinances,
resolutions, and motions shall be filed and preserved by the city clerk. An
abstract of the essential provisions of each ordinance shall be published once
in the official city newspaper within ten (10) days after its adoption, except
that only the title of a code adopted by reference as provided in this section
shall be so published. [As amended by Priv. Acts 1978, ch. 244, and replaced by
Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, § 7]
SECTION 2.16. Permissive Referendum; Effective Date of Ordinances.
   Be it further enacted, That every ordinance shall be subject to permissive
referendum as provided in Article XI of this Act. Every ordinance, unless it
shall specify another date, shall become effective at the expiration of
fourteen (14) days following final passage, or, if the ordinance be submitted
at a referendum election, then upon a favorable vote of a majority of those
voting thereon except as otherwise expressly provided by this Act.
SECTION 2.17. Independent Annual Audit.
   Be it further enacted, That prior to the end of each fiscal year the council
shall designate a certified public accountant or accountants who, as of the end
of the fiscal year, shall make an independent audit of accounts and other
evidences of financial transactions of the city government and shall submit
their report to the council and to the city manager. Such accountant or
accountants shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect in the fiscal
affairs of the city government or of any of its officers. They shall not
maintain any accounts or records of the city business, but, within
specifications approved by the council, shall postaudit the books and documents
kept by the department of finance and any separate or subordinate accounts kept
by any other office, department, or agency of the city government.
ARTICLE III.
THE CITY MANAGER
SECTION 3.01. The City Manager; Qualifications.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager shall be chosen by the council
solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with
special reference to his actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted
practice in respect to the duties of his office as hereinafter set forth. At
the time of his appointment, he need not be a resident of the city or state,
but during his tenure of office he may reside outside of the city only with the
consent of the council.
SECTION 3.02. The City Manager; Powers and Duties.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager shall be the chief executive
officer and the head of the administrative branch of the city government. He
shall be responsible to the council for the proper administration of all
affairs of the city and to that end, he shall have power and shall be required
to:
   (1)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, remove all
officers and employees of the city except as otherwise provided by this charter
and except as he may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint
and remove subordinates in such department or office;
   (2)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the council and be
responsible for its administration after adoption;
   (3)   Prepare and submit to the council as of the end of the fiscal year a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city for
the preceding year;
   (4)   Keep the council advised of the financial condition and future needs
of the city and make such recommendations as may seen to him desirable;
   (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter or
required of him by the council, not inconsistent with this charter.
SECTION 3.03. Absence of City Manager.
   Be it further enacted, That to perform his duties during his temporary
absence or disability, the manager may designate by letter filed with the city
clerk a qualified administrative officer of the city. In the event of failure
of the manager to make such designation, the council may by resolution appoint
an officer of the city to perform the duties of the manager until he shall
return or his disability shall cease.
SECTION 3.04. Administrative Departments.
   Be it further enacted, That within the framework established by this Act,
the administrative organization of the city shall be organized into departments
of general government, finance, and such other departments necessary to provide
health, welfare, police, recreation, fire, public works, utilities, and other
municipal services as shall be provided in a plan of administrative
organization approved by the city council and adopted by ordinance. The council
may by ordinance amend the plan of administrative organization. Such
departments as are in effect on the effective dates of this Act shall continue
in effect until changed by ordinance.
SECTION 3.05. Directors of Departments.
   Be it further enacted, That at the head of each department there shall be a
director, who shall be an officer of the city and shall have supervision and
control of the department subject to the city manager.
   Two or more departments may be headed by the same individual, the manager
may head one or more departments, and directors of departments may also serve
as chiefs of divisions.
SECTION 3.06. Departmental Divisions.
   Be it further enacted, That the work of each department may be distributed
among such divisions thereof as may be established by ordinance. Pending the
passage of an ordinance or ordinances distributing the work of departments
under the supervision and control of the manager among specific divisions
thereof, the manager may establish temporary divisions for a period not to
exceed six (6) months.
SECTION 3.07. Merit Basis of Appointment.
   Be it further enacted, That appointments and promotions in the
administrative service of the city shall be made according to merit and
fitness.
ARTICLE IV.
FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 4.01. Fiscal Year.
   The fiscal year of the city government shall begin on the first day of July
and shall end on the thirtieth day of June of the succeeding year, but a
different fiscal year may be provided by ordinance for the entire city
government or for any utility. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45, § 8]
SECTION 4.02. City Manager to Submit Annual Budgets.
   Be it further enacted, That on or before a date fixed by the council but
prior to the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year, the city manager shall
submit to the council separate proposed annual budgets for (a) the general
operation of the city government, including the public schools if there is a
separate city school system, hereinafter referred to as the general budget, (b)
each utility hereinafter preferred to as a utility budget, (e) the municipal
hospital and related facilities, (d) capital improvements and public works,
hereinafter referred to as the capital improvement budget, and (e) any other
fund of the city; all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as
budgets. The head of each department and agency and any boards or commissions
of the city shall file with the city manager, at such time and in such form and
degree of itemization as the city manager may prescribe, any information and
data that he may require for preparation of such budgets.
SECTION 4.03. Contents of Budgets.
   Be it further enacted, That each budget shall include (a) a statement
showing in parallel columns for each source the amount of revenue collected in
the last preceding fiscal year, estimated revenue for the current fiscal year,
and estimated revenue for the ensuing fiscal year, and (b) a statement showing
in parallel columns expenditures and encumbrances in the preceding fiscal year,
appropriations and estimated expenditures or encumbrances for the current
fiscal year, and proposed appropriations for the ensuing fiscal year, with such
data broken down by departments and agencies according to the accounting
classification used by the city. In justification of proposed appropriations
for the ensuing fiscal year, the city manager may include work programs unit
costs, and other information in addition to the information as herein required,
and he shall furnish such other additional information as may be required by
the council. The budgets as submitted by the city manager shall be accompanied
by a message from him containing a statement of general fiscal policies of the
city, the important features of the budgets, explanations of major changes
proposed for the ensuing fiscal year as compared with the preceding and current
fiscal years, a general summary of the budgets, and such other comments and
information as he may deem pertinent. The city manager may recommend and
estimate the yield from now sources of revenue, provided such estimates are
separated clearly from estimates of revenue from existing sources.
SECTION 4.04. Capital Improvement Budget.
   Be it further enacted, That the capital improvement budget shall also
include a description of projects proposed for the ensuing fiscal year and for
the five (5) fiscal years thereafter, the estimated cost of each project, and
the recommendations of the city manager for financing the projects proposed for
the ensuing fiscal year. The council may accept, revise, or reject the proposed
budget, but, except in case of emergency threatening the lives, health, or
property of the inhabitants of the city declared by a unanimous vote of all
members of the council, the council shall not authorize any capital improvement
project on any expenditure therefor unless an appropriation for such project
has been made.
SECTION 4.05. Appropriation and Additional Revenue Ordinances.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager shall submit with the budgets a
proposed appropriation ordinance or ordinances, a tax levy ordinance, and any
other ordinances necessary to raise revenue, if recommended, or to make his
budget recommendations effective. Such appropriation ordinance or ordinances
need not be itemized further than by a lump sum for each department and agency.
The hearings on the budget, as provided in Section
4.07, shall include hearings on all ordinances referred to in this section.
SECTION 4.06. Copies of Budget Message and Budgets.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager shall have reproduced a
sufficient number of copies of his budget message for distribution to any
person desiring a copy. A sufficient number of copies of the budgets in full
and his budget message shall be prepared so that one copy may be filed with the
city clerk or recorder as a public record for public inspection and so that one
copy will be provided for each councilman.
SECTION 4.07. Public Hearing.
   Be it further enacted, That at the time of receiving the budgets and related
proposed ordinances from the city manager, the council shall fix a time and
place for a public hearing thereon and a notice thereof shall be published at
least once in the official city newspaper at least ten (10) days in advance of
the date of the hearing. The hearing shall be held before the council at the
stated time and place, at which all persons present shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
SECTION 4.08. Action by City Council.
   Be it further enacted, That after the public hearing the council may insert
new items of expenditure or may increase, decrease, or strike out items of
expenditure in any budget; provided, that no item of expenditure for debt
service or an item required to be include by this or any other Act shall be
reduced or stricken out; and provided further, that the total only, and not
items, of the school budget may be increased or decreased. The council before
the beginning of the ensuing fiscal year shall adopt an appropriation ordinance
or ordinances, and any other ordinances necessary to give effect to the
budgets; provided, that if emergency conditions prevent the adoption of the
appropriation ordinance or ordinances before the beginning of the fiscal year
the appropriations in effect for the prior fiscal year shall become
appropriations for the new fiscal year, subject to amendment as provided in
this article. The council shall not alter the estimates of revenue contained in
the budgets except to correct omissions or mathematical errors, and it shall
not increase the total of expenditures recommended by the city manager for any
budget without a public hearing on such increase, which shall be held not less
than five (5) days after notice thereof by publication in the publication in
the official city newspaper. The council shall not make appropriations in
excess of estimated revenue plus the accumulated surplus; provided, that
emergency appropriations for the purpose of meeting public emergencies
threatening the lives, health, or property of the inhabitants of the city,
declared by a unanimous vote of all members of the council, shall not be
subject to this limitation. In the absence of unappropriated revenue to meet
such emergency appropriations, the council by resolution may authorize the
issuance of notes secured by the faith and credit of the city, each of which
shall be designated "emergency note" and may be renewed from time to time, but
all such notes and any renewals thereof shall be paid not later than the last
day of the fiscal year next succeeding the fiscal year in which the emergency
appropriation was made. Each annual appropriation ordinance shall become
effective on the first day of the fiscal year for which said ordinance is
adopted, without being subject to the waiting period prescribed in Section
2.15 of this Act.
SECTION 4.09. Additional Appropriations.
   Be it further enacted, That appropriations in addition to those provided in
initial appropriation ordinances for any budget or fund, or amendments of such
ordinances, may be made at any time during a current fiscal year after a public
hearing and at least five (5) days notice thereof published in the official
city newspaper, provided the city manager has certified in writing that there
is or will be a sufficient amount of unappropriated revenue to cover any
additional appropriations.
SECTION 4.10. Appropriations to Lapse.
   Be it further enacted, That any portion of an annual appropriation remaining
unexpended and unencumbered at the close of each fiscal year shall lapse and be
credited to the general fund, except that any balance remaining in any other
fund at the end of a fiscal year may remain to the credit of that fund and be
subject to further appropriation.
SECTION 4.11. Allotments.
   Be it further enacted, That before the beginning of a fiscal year or before
a time fixed by the city manager, the head of each department and agency
supported in whole or in part by appropriated funds, except the school system,
shall submit to the city manager a work program for the year in such form and
with such information as he may prescribe, which program shall show the amount
of allotments requested by quarterly periods for the fiscal year. The city
manager shall review the requested allotments and work programs and may revise,
alter, change, or reduce such requests before approving allotments; provided,
that such allotments shall be in conformity with salaries established by
ordinance and any laws relating to obligatory expenditures. The total of such
allotments shall not exceed the total appropriation for each department and
agency, and no expenditure encumbrance shall be made in excess of the
allotments approved by the city manager. An allotment may be revised by the
city manager at any time in the fiscal year. If at any time it shall appear to
the city manager that revenue is to be less than the original estimate of
revenue on which appropriations were based, he shall review all allotments and
may appropriate revisions downward in order to prevent the making of
expenditures and encumbrances in excess of probable revenue; provided, that no
salaries shall be reduced except by ordinance. If there is a separate city
school system, the school superintendent shall have such allotment
responsibility and authority with respect to the school budget.
SECTION 4.12. Budgetary Reports to Council.
   Be it further enacted, That at the end of each month the city manager shall
submit a detailed budget report to the council, showing estimated and actual
revenues, expenditures, and encumbrances for that month, and for the fiscal
year to the end of that month, as well as the amount encumbered and expended in
excess of any of the itemized estimates of expenditures supporting the
appropriations.
SECTION 4.13. Penalty for Unauthorized Contract or Expenditure.
   Be it further enacted, That any contract or agreement made in violation of
the provisions of this Act or ordinances of the city shall be illegal and void
and no expenditure shall be made thereunder, and every officer and employee who
shall knowingly make or participate in any such contract or agreement or
authorize or make any expenditure thereunder, and their sureties on their
official bonds, and every person who shall knowingly receive such a payment,
shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for the full amount so paid
or received. A violation of this section by any officer or employee shall be
cause for his removal.
SECTION 4.14. Annual Audit.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall appoint a certified accountant
to make an annual audit of all financial books and records of all departments
and agencies of the city. The auditor shall file his report with the council at
a time agreed to between him and the council and shall prepare a summary of the
report which shall be published once in the official city newspaper.
SECTION 4.15. Centralized Purchasing.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager, or an employee designated by
him, shall act as city purchasing agent. The purchasing agent shall make all
purchases and contracts for all departments and agencies of the city, subject
to the provisions of this Act and ordinances consistent with this Act, except
materials, supplies, and equipment used only in the public schools, which may
be purchased by the school superintendent; other exceptions may be made by
ordinance if recommended in writing by the city manager.
SECTION 4.16. Allotments Required; Advance Authorization for Emergency
Purchases.
   Be it further enacted, That no purchase or contract shall be made unless the
director of finance shall certify that the amount of the proposed purchase or
contract is covered by an unencumbered balance of an approved allotment, and
the appropriate allotment shall be encumbered immediately for the amount of any
purchase or contract, except that emergency expenditures may be approved by the
council as provided in Section
4.08.
SECTION 4.17. Powers and Duties of Purchasing Agent.
   Be it further enacted, That the city purchasing agent shall have the
following powers and duties:
      (a)   To make purchases and contracts as provided in this Act and by
ordinance not inconsistent with this Act.
      (b)   To establish, with the approval of the city manager and after
consultation with departments and agencies concerned, and to enforce standard
specifications for supplies, materials, and equipment.
      (c)   To prescribe, with the approval of the city manager, the times of
making requisitions for materials, supplies, and equipment and the future
periods which such requisitions are to cover.
      (d)   To inspect or cause to be inspected supplies, materials and
equipment when delivered, and to cause tests to be made when necessary in order
to determine their quality, quantity, and conformance with specifications.
      (e)   To supervise and control any central storerooms and warehouses that
may be established.
      (f)   To transfer to or between departments and agencies and to sell or
trade in any supplies, materials, or equipment determined by him, with the
approval of the city manager and after consultation with the using agency
concerned, to be surplus, obsolete, or unused, subject to the provisions of
Section
4.23 of this article.
      (g)   To maintain an adequate system of records for supplies, materials,
and equipment purchased and issued.
      (h)   To maintain such an inventory of city property as may be required
by the city manager.
      (i)   To perform such other duties as may be required by the council or
by the city manager.
SECTION 4.18. Stocking Supplies, Materials, and Equipment.
   Be it further enacted, That supplies, materials, and equipment commonly used
may be purchased and stocked in advance of need and accounted for as a part of
the general fund, and when issued shall be charged at cost against the proper
appropriation and allotment of the using department or agency.
SECTION 4.19. Who May Make Expenditures and Contracts; Bids.
   The council by ordinance may establish expenditure and contract amounts and
purchasing procedures. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1979, ch. 125]
SECTION 4.20. Bonds for Public Works Contracts.
   Be it further enacted, That before any contract for any public works or
improvement is awarded, the contractor shall give a bond for the faithful
performance of the contract, with a surety company authorized to transact
business in Tennessee, in amount equal to one hundred (100) per cent of the
contract price, but the council may waive this requirement for contracts under
five thousand dollars ($5,000).
SECTION 4.21. Bid Records to be Preserved.
   Be it further enacted, That all bids taken under the requirements for
competitive bidding in this Act and ordinances, and other documents pertaining
to the awards of contracts on such bids, shall be preserved for a period of
five (5) years and shall be available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
SECTION 4.22. Exception to Purchase Governmental Materials.
   Be it further enacted, That the city may purchase materials, supplies,
commodities, and equipment from any federal, state, or local governmental unit
or agency, without conforming to the competitive bidding requirements of this
article.
SECTION 4.23. Sale of City Property.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager may sell any city property
which is obsolete, surplus, or unusable, without taking bids therefor, if the
proceeds of such sale do not exceed five hundred dollars ($500), but sealed
bids shall be taken or a public auction shall be held for any sale producing
more than five hundred dollars ($500), and any sale producing more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000) or any sale of real estate shall be subject to
approval by the council.
SECTION 4.24. Official Depository.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall designate an official
depository or depositories for the deposit and safe keeping of the funds of the
city and may require such collateral security as it deems necessary.
ARTICLE V.
TAXATION.
SECTION 5.01. Property Taxes; Assessment Date.
   Be it further enacted, That all property within the corporate limits, real
and personal, not exempted by general law, shall be assessed as of January 10
in each year, for taxation by the city. The city property tax rate shall also
be levied on the capital stock of merchants in accordance with the law
providing for such a tax by the state or county. The property valuations upon
which payments in lieu of taxes are made by any department or agency of the
federal, state, or local government shall be considered as a part of the total
assessed valuation of property in the city for computing debt limitation and
similar purposes.
SECTION 5.02. Property Taxes on Public Service Companies.
   Be it further enacted, That the city property tax rate each year shall be
levied on the assessed valuation of all property, real and personal, within the
corporate limits, owned by public service companies, as certified to the city
by the state Public Service Commission, or similar state agency, and the due
and delinquency dates for taxes payable by such companies shall be the same as
for other property taxes, except that in any case such tax shall not become
delinquent until thirty (30) days after the assessment has been so certified to
the city.
SECTION 5.03. Responsible Officers.
   Be it further enacted, That the director of finance shall be responsible for
the administration and collection of taxes, licenses, and special assessments,
assisted by the city assessor if one be appointed, subject to direction and
control by the city manager.
SECTION 5.04. City May Use County Assessment or Make Assessment.
   Be it further enacted, That the council by ordinance may elect to use the
county assessment of all taxable property within the city, including property
subject to the merchants ad valorem tax, to establish a base for its tax levy,
or the council may provide for an independent city assessment.
SECTION 5.05. Procedure if County Assessment is Used.
   Be it further enacted, That if the county assessment is used for purposes of
the city property tax levy, the following rules and regulations shall govern:
      (a)   Copy county assessments. The director of finance shall cause to be
copied the assessments of all property taxable by the city as shown on the
county assessment records, or the appropriate county officer, upon agreement
with the council, and for a reasonable fee, may furnish a certified copy of
such assessments.
      (b)   Omitted assessments. The director of finance shall have authority
to assess any property within the corporate limits, omitted from the county
assessment records, subject to appeal to the council within ten (10) days after
notice to the taxpayer of such assessment and subject to further appeal to the
chancery court within thirty (30) days after a decision by the council, and if
either appeal is not taken within such time limits the assessment of the
director of finance or of council, as the case may be, shall be final; or
omitted assessments may be made under any other applicable general laws of the
state.
      (c)   Levy or taxes. The city shall levy its property tax on all such
assessments and including the assessments of public service companies.
SECTION 5.06. Procedure if City Assessment is Made.
   Be it further enacted, That if the city elects to do so, all property within
the city subject to taxation, except the property of public service companies
assessed by a state agency, shall be assessed by a city assessor, appointed by
the city manager, and the assessor's office shall be located in the department
of finance. All other applicable provisions of this article shall govern the
making of such assessments.
SECTION 5.07. Powers and Duties of the City Assessor.
   Be it further enacted, That the city assessor shall have the following
powers and duties, subject to supervision and control by the city manager or if
so delegated to the director of finance:
      (a)   To assess all real, personal, and mixed property, except that of
public service companies assessed by a state agency, within the corporate
limits and subject to taxation by the city.
      (b)   To maintain adequate records showing all assessments made and data
pertinent thereto.
      (c)   To prepare an assessment roll showing the assessment for each
taxpayer and for each parcel of real estate in such form as the director of
finance shall determine.
      (d)   To act as secretary to the board of equalization and to perform
such duties as it may require.
      (e)   To perform such other duties as may be required by this Act, by
ordinances not inconsistent with this Act, or by the city manager or director
of finance not inconsistent with this Act or ordinances.
SECTION 5.08. Board of Equalization.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall appoint each year a board of
equalization, consisting of three persons who are property owners and qualified
of the city. The board of equalization may increase assessments made, and may
add assessments omitted, by the city assessor on its own motion, after notice
and hearing as provided in this article, but it may decrease individual
assessments or strike erroneous assessments from the assessment roll only on
appeals from interested parties. The board may increase or decrease the
assessment of all property or of any class of property by a uniform percentage,
in which case the requirement of notice and hearing shall not apply but a
notice of such blanket increase or decrease shall be inserted once in the
official city newspaper. The members of the board may receive such compensation
on a per diem basis for each day of duty as may be provided by ordinance.
SECTION 5.09. Procedure for Review of Assessments.
   Be it further enacted, That the following rules and regulations shall govern
the review of assessments made by the city assessor:
      (a)   Notice of increased or new assessment. The city assessor, by
ordinary mail or by personal service, shall send a notice to the last known
address of the person liable for taxes based on increased or new assessment
made by the city assessor or by the board of equalization. If the owner of such
property is unknown, or is a nonresident of the state with no known agent in
the state, the notice shall be posted on the property at least ten (10) days in
advance of date set for the hearing. The notice shall state the time and place
that the taxpayer may appear before the board of equalization for a hearing and
the amount of the new or increased assessment, and shall be sent at least ten
(10) days in advance of the date fixed for the hearing.
      (b)   Hearing before board of equalization. The taxpayer may appear at
the time and place for the hearing, and may present reasons for objecting to
the assessment. The secretary of the board of equalization, by ordinary mail or
by personal service, shall send a notice within five (5) days thereafter of the
board's decision to the taxpayer. Thereafter appeals may be taken as provided
by general law. If the taxpayer does not make an appearance at such hearing, or
having appeared at such hearing does not file an appeal with the time allowed
by general law, the final assessment of the city assessor or of the board, as
the case may be, shall stand.
      (c)   When board to be in session. The board of equalization shall begin
and end its work at times to be prescribed by ordinance, which times shall be
so established that the assessment roll may be completed and tax bills may be
prepared before the tax due date.
      (d)   Report of board. The board of equalization upon completion of its
work, shall submit a written report to the council, including total increases
and decreases made by it and the final total assessment of each class of
property.
SECTION 5.10. Tax Levy.
   Be it further enacted, That the council shall each year by ordinance
prescribe and levy the tax rate, expressed as a fixed rate per one hundred
dollars ($100) of assessed valuation, to be imposed on all property subject to
taxation as of the assessment date of January 10, and if no such tax levy is
made by ninety (90) days prior to the date on which property taxes are due and
payable, the tax rate in effect for the preceding fiscal year automatically
shall become the tax rate for the current fiscal year; provided, that when
installment payments are authorized under section
5.12 of this Act, the tax rate in effect in the next preceding fiscal year
automatically shall become the tax rate for the current fiscal year if a tax
levy ordinance is not adopted by ninety (90) days prior to the due date of the
second installment. The total assessment of public service companies when
determined shall be reported immediately to the council, but the tax levy shall
not be delayed pending such certification.
SECTION 5.11. Tax Bills; Failure to Send Does Not Invalidate Tax.
   Be it further enacted, That the director of finance, as soon as possible
after the total city assessments and the tax rate applicable thereto have been
determined, may prepare and send to each taxpayer a bill showing the assessed
valuation of all properties subject to taxation, the amount of tax due thereon,
the date on which the tax is due and payable, the date on which penalties
apply, and information concerning penalties and interest for nonpayment. Such
tax bills shall be payable at the office of the department of finance. Failure
to send such bills shall in no way affect the validity of a tax, and all taxes
shall be due and payable and subject to the same penalties and interest
regardless of whether tax bills are sent to taxpayers or not.
SECTION 5.12. When Property Taxes Due and Payable; Penalty and Interest.
   Be it further enacted, That the date or dates on which property taxes shall
be due and payable shall be fixed by ordinance. Unless otherwise provided by
ordinance such taxes, if unpaid, shall become delinquent thirty (30) days after
the due date. Delinquent taxes shall be subject to penalty and interest; the
rate of said penalty and interest, and the proration of said interest shall be
fixed by ordinance. On and after the date when property taxes become delinquent
the tax books in the department of finance shall have the force and effect of a
judgment of a court of record. The council by ordinance may provide for
semiannual installments, and if the first installment becomes due before the
tax levy is complete it shall be one half of the prior year's tax and the
remainder of the current year's tax as computed shall be paid in the second
installment. Each installment shall become delinquent and subject to the
penalty and interest provided in this section thirty (30) days after its due
date. [As amended by Priv. Acts 1983, ch. 71]
SECTION 5.13. Collection of Delinquent Taxes.
   Be it further enacted, That the city may use any or all of the following
procedures for the collection of delinquent taxes, as may be provided by
ordinance:
      (a)   Distress warrants. The director of finance may issue original
attachments, to be executed by any police officer of the city, for the sale of
goods. and chattels to enforce the payments of delinquent property taxes due
the city, against persons owning such property on the assessment date, and the
director of finance may also issue alias and pluries summonses. The levy upon
and sale of such goods and chattels shall be governed by the laws providing for
execution of such process from a justice of the peace.
      (b)   Collection by garnishment. The director of finance may proceed by
garnishment in accordance with the provisions of section 67-1308, Tennessee
Code Annotated.
      (c)   Collection by county trustees. The director of finance may certify
to the county trustee a list of property upon which city property taxes are
delinquent, or which is liable for sale for other delinquent taxes, and such
property shall be sold in like manner and upon the same terms and conditions as
property is sold for delinquent state and county taxes. The county trustee
shall remit the proceeds due the city to the department of finance.
      (d)   Collection by city attorney. The director of finance may certify to
the city attorney a list of property on which city property taxes or other
taxes are delinquent, and such property shall be sold for such taxes in like
manner and upon the same terms and conditions as property is sold for
delinquent state and county taxes.
      (e)   Suits in chancery. The city attorney may proceed to collect
delinquent city taxes as provided by section 6-704 to 6-708, inclusive,
Tennessee Code Annotated, or by any other means authorized by law.
SECTION 5.14. Lien for Taxes.
   Be it further enacted, That all property taxes levied by the city under this
Act, including such taxes levied on public service companies, and merchants ad
valorem taxes, and all penalties, interest, and costs accruing thereon, are
hereby declared to be a lien on the property on and after the assessment date
of January 10 in each year, and county taxes legally levied thereon, with which
it shall be a lien of equal dignity.
SECTION 5.15. Collection of Merchants Ad Valorem taxes.
   Be it further enacted, That the director of finance shall collect the
merchants ad valorem tax at the same time and by a similar procedure prescribed
by general law for such taxes due the state and county, with such modifications
as may be made by ordinance, and such taxes due the city shall be subject to
the same penalties and interest and all other provisions for the enforcement of
county and state merchants ad valorem taxes. The council may request the county
officer collecting state and county merchants ad valorem taxes to collect such
taxes for city and to remit the proceeds to the director of finance, in which
case the said county officer by agreement may collect and remit such city
taxes, for which the city may pay him a reasonable fee for rendering such
service.
SECTION 5.16. Mistakes or Technicalities not to Invalidate Assessments;
Corrections.
   Be it further enacted, That no assessment of property subject to taxation by
the city shall be invalid because of inaccuracies in the size and dimensions or
other designation or description of any tract, lot, or parcel of land, or in
the assessed valuation or amount of tax, or because of assessing any property
in the name of, a person not owning it, or because any property was assessed to
unknown owners, or on account of any other technical errors or omissions, but
all such assessments and resulting tax levies shall be good and valid. The city
assessor, with the approval of the director of finance, shall have power to
correct any such mistakes, technicalities, errors, or omissions by appropriate
notations on official records.
ARTICLE VI.
BORROWING AND BONDS
SECTION 6.01. Notes in Anticipation of Current Tax Collections.
   Be it further enacted, That the council by ordinance may authorize the
issuance of notes in anticipation of taxes to be collected in the same fiscal
year in which such notes are issued, not to exceed fifty (50) per cent of the
amount of such anticipated taxes. The proceeds thereof shall applied only in
payment of current and necessary expenses chargeable to the general fund. All
such notes shall be repaid on or before the end of the fiscal year in which
they were issued. Such notes shall not be considered as part of the bonded
indebtedness of the city.
SECTION 6.02. Purposes for Which Bonds May be Issued.
   Be it further enacted, That negotiable bonds secured by the general faith
and credit of the city, or solely by specific property owned by the city, or
solely by the credit of any public utility owned or operated by the city, or
solely by any non-tax revenue sources of the city, or by any two or more such
assets or revenue, may be issued by the city for such purposes as acquiring
land; purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, or extending waterworks,
sewers, sewage treatment plants, public ways, motor vehicular parking
facilities, fire alarm systems, fire equipment and buildings, gas utility
works, electric utility works, public transportation facilities and terminals,
power plants, any other public utility, street lights, police equipment,
hospitals, jails, workhouses, libraries, charitable institutions, corrective
institutions, penal institutions, other public buildings, parks, playgrounds,
public grounds or squares, and any other public improvements which the city may
be authorized or permitted to make; purchasing real or personal property for
school purposes; constructing or purchasing school buildings and equipment; and
for repaying, refunding, or removing any bonded indebtedness of the city. The
foregoing enumeration is cumulative to other provisions of law and shall not be
construed to limit or modify the purposes in this Act or any other general law
for which the city may borrow money or issue and sell its bonds.
SECTION 6.03. Serial Bonds.
   Be it further enacted, That except as otherwise required or permitted by
general law, the city may issue only serial bonds with principal payments
beginning not later than three (3) years after the issuance of such bonds.
Interest payments on such bonds shall be made semi annually. [As replaced by
Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 2]
SECTION 6.04. Sinking Funds.
   Be it further enacted, That existing sinking funds and any sinking fund
required by a general law under which bonds are issued shall be maintained and
managed as provided by general laws.
   The city may establish only such sinking funds as may be required by general
laws under which such sinking fund bonds are issued.
SECTION 6.05. Bond Ordinance.
   Be it further enacted, That the board shall authorize the issuance of bonds
under this Act by a "bond ordinance," subject to the requirements of approval
at a special election as provided in this Act or other general law. Such bond
ordinance shall contain in substance at least the following provisions:
      (a)   A statement of the security backing the bonds.
      (b)   An appropriation of a sum of money for a purpose authorized by this
Act or other general law, described in brief and general terms sufficient for
reasonable identification, for which the bonds are to be issued.
      (c)   An authorization for the incurring of indebtedness by the issuance
of bonds in a stated amount to finance such an appropriation.
      (d)   A schedule of the principal maturities and interest payments of the
serial bonds, by year.
      (e)   A schedule of estimated annual payments into the sinking fund, if a
sinking fund is required, and the annual amounts of principal and interest,
shown separately, to be paid from the fund.
      (f)   A determination of the period of usefulness of the project, as
provided in Section
6.12 of this Act.
      (g)   A determination of the net debt of the city after issuance of the
bonds thereby authorized, and a declaration that the bonds thereby authorized
will be within any debt or other limitations of the constitution and laws of
this state. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 3]
SECTION 6.06. Title of Bond Ordinance; Two or More Projects May Be Included.
   Be it further enacted, That the title of a bond ordinance under this Act
shall state the amount appropriated, a brief description of the project or
purpose, and the amount of bonds authorized to finance the appropriation. Bond
ordinances shall be cited on bonds by title and date of final passage. Two or
more projects may be combined to be financed by one bond issue, in which case
the bond ordinance shall establish a separate appropriation and shall state
separately the estimated maximum costs of each project, but the title of the
ordinance need only state the aggregate total of such appropriations and the
total amount of bonds to be authorized. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch.
74, § 4]
SECTION 6.07. Procedure for Adoption of Bond Ordinance: Publication of Notice.
   Be it further enacted, That the procedure for adoption of a bond ordinance
under this Act shall be the same as provided in this Act for other ordinances,
except as may be hereinafter provided. After its final adoption the city clerk
shall publish the following notice in the official city newspaper in the same
issue of the newspaper in which an abstract of the ordinance is published:
   "NOTICE: The bond ordinance, an abstract of which is published herewith, has
been finally adopted, and the twenty day period of limitation within which a
suit, action, or proceeding questioning the validity of such ordinance can be
commenced, as provided in the city charter, has begun to run from the date of
the publication of this notice. (Signed by city clerk)" [As replaced by Priv.
Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 5]
SECTION 6.08. Effective Date of Bond Ordinance.
   Be it further enacted, That each bond ordinance under this Act shall take
effect on the twenty-first day after publication of notice of passage thereof
as required in this article, unless an election is required in which case it
shall take effect immediately upon certification of a favorable vote thereon.
[As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 6]
SECTION 6.09. Period of Limitations to Challenge Bond Ordinance.
   Be it further enacted, That when twenty days shall have elapsed after final
passage of a bond ordinance as provided by this Act, (a) any recitals or
statements of fact contained in such bond ordinance, or in the preambles or
recitals thereof, shall be deemed to be true for the purpose of determining the
validity of the bonds thereby, authorized and the city and all others
interested shall forever thereafter be estopped from denying the same, (b) such
bond ordinance shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly and regularly
passed by the city and to comply with the provisions of this Act and all other
laws, and (c) the validity of such bond ordinance shall not thereafter be
questioned by either a party plaintiff or a party defendant, except in a suit,
action, or proceeding commenced prior to the expiration of such twenty days.
SECTION 6.10. Determinations in Bond Ordinance Conclusive.
   Be it further enacted, That the determinations of the council in such bond
ordinance, respecting the classification of projects or purposes for which the
bonds are to be authorized, and the probable life of such projects or purposes,
shall be conclusive in any action or proceeding involving the validity of the
bonds. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 7]
SECTION 6.11. Bonds May be Callable.
   Be it further enacted, That all bonds issued under this Act may be made
callable on any interest maturity date occurring five (5) years or more after
date of issuance, and for such purpose a premium may be paid. Bonds called
shall be called in inverse order according to maturity, so that the bonds
having the longest maturity shall be called first. Provisions of the callable
feature shall be set out in the bond ordinance and shall appear likewise on the
face of each callable bond.
SECTION 6.12. Term of Bonds Not To Exceed Life of Improvements.
   Be it further enacted, That the longest term of any serial bond issued under
this Act shall not exceed the probable life of the project or purpose for which
issued, but an erroneous estimate of the probable life shall in no way affect
the validity of the bonds. When two or more projects are financed by one bond
issue, the probable life shall be the average estimated life of the projects.
SECTION 6.13. Election Required Except for Certain Bonds.
   Be it further enacted, That an election called for the purpose of
determining the will of the electorate shall be required before bonds may be
issued under this Act, except in the case of bonds to repay, refund, or remove
existing bonded indebtedness, bonds secured solely by pledges of revenues and
bonds secured solely by special assessments. The county election commissioners
shall conduct such an election, at the formal request of the council, as
evidenced by the adoption of an appropriate resolution, accompanied by an
attached copy of the bond ordinance, shall be delivered to the chairman or
other officer of the county election commission, whereupon such election shall
be called, and a notice of such special election shall be inserted in the
official newspaper of the city at least sixty (60) days in advance of the date
of the election. Only the general purpose and the total amount of a bond issue
need be presented in the published notice of the election and on the ballot. If
a majority of the qualified voters of the city voting in such an election vote
in favor of issuing the bonds, then the total amount of the bonds authorized,
or as much thereof as shall be actually required to accomplish the announced
purpose, may be issued by the city, and the proceeds thereof shall be used only
for the announced purpose. Any unused proceeds of a bond issue shall be
earmarked for the retirement of bonds. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74,
§ 8]
SECTION 6.14. Public Sale.
   Be it further acted, That all bonds issued under this Act shall be sold on a
basis of sealed proposals opened publicly by the city clerk at a time and place
announced in a public notice published at least thirty (30) days in advance of
such opening in the official city newspaper and in a publication carrying
municipal bond notices and devoted primarily to financial news or to the
subject of state and municipal bonds. The council by resolution shall determine
which proposal shall be accepted or may reject all proposals and authorize the
taking of new proposals.
SECTION 6.15. Property Tax Levy to Retire Voted Bonds.
   Be it further enacted, That until all bonds authorized by a vote of the
electorate under this Act shall have been retired, the council each year shall
levy, as may be necessary, a total tax on all property subject to taxation by
the city and calculated to produce revenues sufficient to include the amount
required to pay the principal and interest due in that year, if any; provided,
that the council may appropriate other municipal revenues for such purpose, in
which case a corresponding reduction may be made in the property tax levy. Such
a total tax levy shall include revenue requirements for general municipal
purposes. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 9]
SECTION 6.16. Cancellation of Retired Bonds and Paid Interest Coupons.
   Be it further enacted, That after bonds have been retired or interest
coupons have been paid, the director of finance shall cancel them by
appropriate notation thereon and shall report to the council the serial numbers
or other identifying information of the bonds and interest coupons so
cancelled. The director of finance shall preserve the cancelled bonds and
interest coupons until an official annual audit has been made, and thereafter
shall file permanently or dispose of them as directed by resolution of the
council.
SECTION 6.17. Supplementary nature of Title VI.
   Be it further enacted, That the powers conferred by this Title VI shall be
in addition and supplemental to, and the limitations and requirements of this
title shall not affect the powers conferred by any general law with respect to
the issuance of bonds or other obligations of the city, and are not in
substitution for the powers conferred by any general law. Bonds may be issued
under any existing or future general law of the State of Tennessee for any
purpose authorized thereby notwithstanding that this title may provide for the
issuance of bonds or other obligations for a like purpose, and such bonds or
other obligations may be issued under any such general law without regard to
the requirements, restrictions or other procedural provisions contained in this
Act or in this title. [As added by Priv. Acts 1963, ch. 74, § 10]
ARTICLE VIA.
PUBLIC PARKING FACILITIES 1
1   The provisions in this Article are taken from Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276,
which act is entitled: "An Act to empower the City of Cookeville to acquire,
construct, install, or substantially reconstruct public parking facilities; to
issue bonds therefor; to secure such bonds in whole or in part by special
assessments; and to empower the City to maintain, operate, and police such
facilities." Since the act did not specify where or how it should be added to
the city's charter, it has arbitrarily been added by the compiler at this
point.
SECTION 6A.01. Definitions.
   That for the purpose of this Act (Article), unless a different meaning
clearly appears in the context, the following definitions of terms shall be
used in its interpretation:
      (a)   Governing body. The "Council-Manager Government" of the City of
Cookeville.
      (b)   Municipality. The City of Cookeville.
      (c)   Improvement. Acquisition, construction, installation, or
substantial reconstruction of public parking facilities to include lots and/or
buildings for the parking of motor vehicles.
      (d)   Costs. Cost of labor, materials, equipment necessary to complete an
improvement, land, easements, and other necessary expenses connected with an
improvement including preliminary and other surveys, inspections of the work,
engineers' fees and costs, attorneys' fees, fiscal agents' fees, preparation of
plans and specifications, publication expenses, interest which may become due
on bonds before collection of the first improvement assessments, a reasonable
allowance for unforseen contingencies, and other costs of financing.
      (e)   Assessed value basis. The plan for making annual improvement
assessments according to the assessed values of benefited properties, as
assessed for purposes of municipal property taxation, or as provided by this
Act (Article). Such assessed values shall be the measure of benefits to
benefited property or property to be benefited.
      (f)   Improvement assessment. An assessment made each year against
benefited property to pay the costs of an improvement, in the proportion that
the assessed value of each parcel or lot of benefited property bears to the
total assessed value of all benefited property according to the latest
assessments of such property for purposes of municipal property taxation or as
provided by this Act (Article).
      (g)   Benefitted property, property to be benefitted. As determined by
the governing body, real property which is within a reasonable distance from an
improvement and which will be specially benefitted by such improvement. Such
property may be divided by the governing body into two or three zones of
benefit and the costs apportioned to the designated zones on the basis of
proximity to the improvement. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 1]
SECTION 6A.02. Provisions in this article are supplementary.
   That the City of Cookeville is authorized to provide for, construct, and
finance improvements defined in Section 1 (
6A.01) according to the plan set forth in this Act (Article). The authority
hereby conferred is not intended to be in derogation of any authority otherwise
conferred upon the municipality, but is alternative and in addition thereto. If
the municipality has taken any step or steps under any other law to provide
for, construct or finance such improvements, it may by resolution abandon the
procedure under the other law and proceed under the provisions of this Act
(Article). The issuance of bonds under this Act (Article) shall not be subject
to any limitations on municipal indebtedness imposed by the municipality's
charter or any public or private act. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, §
2]
SECTION 6A.03. Resolution for the project, notice of public hearing, etc.
   When the governing body of the municipality shall determine to construct an
improvement as authorized by this Act (Article) or when it is petitioned by the
owners of property to be benefited having an assessed value of at least 51 per
cent of the total assessed value of all the property to be benefited from the
proposed improvement, it shall adopt a resolution that such improvement shall
be made. Said resolution shall describe the geographical limits of the proper
ties to be benefited, and the location, nature, scope and extent of the
improvement. The resolution shall also include a preliminary estimate of the
costs prepared by an engineer licensed by the State of Tennessee, a declaration
that the improvement will be designed and construction will be supervised by an
engineer licensed by the State of Tennesse, and a statement of the proportion
of total costs to be assessed against benefited properties, which shall not
exceed 75 per cent of the total costs of the improvement; provided, however,
that the total costs may be assessed against benefited properties if the
governing body additionally pledges full faith and credit of the municipality
to satisfy any deficiency in collections of improvement assessments. In all
succeeding proceedings, the municipality shall be bound and limited by the
resolution as it may be amended, except that the total costs assessed against
benefited properties may exceed the preliminary estimate of costs by not more
than 10 per cent. The resolution shall provide for a public hearing before the
governing body at a time and place specified therein. The municipality shall
publish the resolution and a notice of the hearing at least seven (7) days in
advance of the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the
municipality and by posting at the main office of the municipal government.
Said notice shall state that any owner of property to be benefited may appear
to be heard as to (a) whether the proposed improvement should be undertaken as
planned, or abandoned, (b) whether the nature and scope of the improvement
should be altered and (c) whether the improvement should be financed through
the issuance of bonds on the "assessed value basis" as authorized by this Act
(Article). Said notice should also be sent by first class mail to the owners of
properties to be benefited, or their agents, of record at the time of adoption
of the resolution, at the addresses currently entered on the property
assessments records. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 3]
SECTION 6A.04. Public hearing; when referendum is required.
   At the public hearing required by Section 3 (
6A.03), or at the time and place to which same may be adjourned from time to
time, all persons whose property may be affected by such improvement may appear
in person or by attorney or by petition. After said public hearing and after
considering any objections, the governing body by resolution may confirm, amend
or rescind the original resolution as its final action. Such final action shall
be the final determination of the issues presented unless the owners of
property to be benefited file, within ten (10) days thereafter, a petition for
a referendum on the original resolution signed by ten per cent (10%) of the
said property owners. Upon the filing of the petition in the office of the City
Clerk, it shall be the duty of the governing body to call an election on the
special question of approval or non-approval of the original resolution. Said
election shall be called by resolution of the governing body at its next
regular meeting and shall be held in the same manner and by the same officials
as a general municipal election except that the municipal building shall be the
sole voting place, and notice thereof shall be given by publication not less
than two (2) times in a newspaper of general circulation, the first of which
publication shall be made not less than twenty (20) days prior to the date of
such election. No other notice shall be necessary. The qualifications of voters
voting on the question shall be that of ownership of property which may be
affected by such improvements. All laws applicable to general elections shall
apply to the determination of the approval or non-approval of the resolution.
The approval or non-approval of the resolution by the voters shall be the final
determination of the issues. It shall be the duty of the governing body of such
municipality to enter upon its minutes the results and returns of such
election.
   Failure to file a petition for a referendum within ten (10) days shall
constitute a waiver of all objections. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, §
4]
SECTION 6A.05. Construction may be on bids or by city forces.
   That (a) proposals for the construction of an improvement shall be solicited
as sealed competitive bids after public advertisement at least once in a
newspaper having general circulation in the municipality not less than 10 days
prior to the date set for receipt of bids. Upon or after the acceptance by the
governing body of a bid, or combination of bids, the governing body may
determine the principal amount of bonds to be issued for the proposed
improvement, taking into account the amount of the accepted bid or bids, and
all other costs of the improvement. Each contract shall be supported by a
performance bond for the full amount thereof, with good surety to be approved
by the governing body. A bid shall not be binding on a contractor unless the
governing body awards a contract within 90 days after the date of opening bids.
(b) If the governing body determines that no bids are acceptable, it may direct
that the improvement be accomplished by the municipality's own forces, in which
event the costs of construction included in the total costs for purposes of
determining improvement assessments shall not exceed the lowest construction
bid or bids which conform to all bid requirements. [As added by Priv. Acts
1970, ch. 276, § 5]
SECTION 6A.06. Bond resolution.
   That thereupon the governing body may adopt a Bond Resolution, which shall:
      (a)   Authorize the issuance of bonds of the City designated as "Parking
Improvement Assessment Bonds," and shall in addition identify the improvement
by names of streets, number, or otherwise;
      (b)   Determine the principal amount of the bonds and the interest rate
thereon;
      (c)   Establish the denominations and maturity dates of the bonds, which
shall be serial maturities not to exceed 30 years from date of issue;
      (d)   Provide that benefited properties shall be subject to annual
improvement assessments based on their respective assessed values as determined
for purposes of municipal property taxation or as provided by this Act
(Article), the total of such annual improvement assessments to be sufficient to
pay the principal and interest due each year on the bonds, and in the first
year an additional sum equal to 20 per cent of average annual principal and
interest requirements which shall constitute a "debt service reserve" as a
precaution against possible default by reason of failures in the collection of
the annual improvement assessments;
      (e)   Covenant with the holders of said bonds and interest coupons that
until the payment in full thereof the municipality will make and collect annual
improvement assessments upon the benefited properties, as provided in this Act
(Article);
      (f)   Covenant with the holders of said bonds and interest coupons that,
until payment in full thereof, the municipality will pursue and exhaust at its
expense all remedies available to the municipality for the benefit and
protection of the bondholders, including enforcement to judgment and decretal
sale of the liens upon benefited properties, as provided in this Act (Article);
      (g)   Designate one or more places of payment of principal and interest,
within or without the State;
      (h)   Specify such provisions for redemption and payment prior to stated
maturities, and the terms thereof, with or without premium, as the governing
body may deem to be desirable;
      (i)   Provide for payment by the municipality of any and all reasonable
customary charges for the services of paying agents, to the end that holders of
the bonds and coupons will receive the sums therein stipulated, without
deductions for such charges;
      (j)   Covenant with the holders of bonds and interest coupons that the
municipality will levy whatever taxes may be required to pay the principal and
interest on the bonds if collections of improvement assessments are inadequate
to meet such obligations, if the governing body decides that such additional
security is desirable. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 6]
SECTION 6A.07. Bids for bonds.
   That the municipality shall solicit the submission of bids or proposals for
purchase of the bonds authorized by the Bond Resolution, the same to be
received upon a sealed competitive basis after advertisement by publication one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality, not less than
10 days before the date set for the opening and consideration of such bids.
Bids shall be evaluated as to net effective interest rates on the sums of money
actually to be received by the municipality, and no bids at more than 6 per
cent interest may be accepted. If no bids are received upon terms acceptable to
the governing body and conforming to the published notice, bids may again be
solicited in the same manner until a purchase bid is received upon terms
acceptable to the governing body. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 7]
SECTION 6A.08. Disposition of bond funds.
   That (a) whe the bonds are sold, the proceeds shall be deposited in a bank
or trust company, or combined bank and trust company, except as hereinafter
provided, pursuant to an escrow agreement approved by the attorney who approved
the bonds; to the extent such deposit is not insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation it shall be secured in such manner as may be approved by
the governing body. The bond proceeds may also be invested by the governing
body in securities of the United States Government, and interest received from
such investments shall be deposited in the aforesaid account.
      (b)   There shall be set aside into a "Parking Improvement (No.) Special
Fund," hereinafter created, a sum from bond proceeds equal to all interest
which will accrue on said bonds until the date when the first improvement
assessments in connection therewith will become due and payable. The remainder
may be disbursed from time to time in payment of costs of the improvement,
except that payments on account of the construction contracts shall not exceed
90 per cent of the amount certified in writing by the engineer as having been
earned for materials furnished and/or labor performed by a contractor, the
retained 10 per cent to be disbursed only upon final acceptance of the finished
work of such contractor. If, after completion, acceptance and payment of the
work of all contractors, and the payment of all costs of the improvement, as
herein defined, there shall remain an unexpended balance in the aforesaid bank
account, such balance shall be transferred to the "Parking Improvement (No.)
Special Fund" created and maintained in connection with the improvement. [As
added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 8]
SECTION 6A.09. Bonds, bond security, etc.
   That each of said bonds shall bear on its face the statement that it has
been issued under this Act, 1 that it does not pledge the full faith and credit
of the municipality as a general obligation indebtedness of the municipality,
and that it is secured solely by the pledge of the municipality to make and
collect annual improvement assessments as provided in this Act; provided,
however, that the governing body may modify said statement to additionally
pledge the full faith and credit of the municipality to satisfy any deficiency
in collections of special assessments. The bonds, and the receipt of interest
thereon, shall not be subject to taxation. The bonds shall have all the
qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments. If the municipality's full
faith and credit is not contingently pledged, the bonds, and the interest
thereon, shall be payable exclusively from the annual improvement assessments
collected from time to time upon the properties benefited by the improvement
identified in the bonds. If the municipality pays any principal or interest on
the bonds from its general funds, it shall be subrogated to the rights of the
bondholders for the proceeds from the improvement assessments to the extent of
such payments and shall reimburse the general fund for such payments from
improvement assessments collected after obligations on the bonds have been met.
[As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 9]
1   Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276.
SECTION 6A.10. Basis of assessments.
   That improvement assessments shall be assessed annually against the
benefited property in the proportion that the assessed value of each lot or
parcel bears to the whole assessed value of the benefited properties.
Properties not assessed for taxation, such as public property or property
exempt from taxation, shall be specially assessed by the municipal assessor, by
the county assessor if the municipality uses county property assessments, or by
a special assessor appointed by the governing body for this purpose, for which
compensation may be paid from the "Parking Improvement (No.) Special Fund" or
from the general fund of the municipality. Any such special assessment shall be
subject to the procedure for equalization and judicial review provided by the
law for assessments made for purposes of property taxation. [As added by Priv.
Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 10]
SECTION 6A.11. Assessments against public property.
   That benefited property owned by the municipality, a county, the State of
Tennessee, or the United States Government or its agencies (if Federal law
makes such property subject to assessment) shall be subject to improvement
assessments, the same as private property, and the amount of each annual
improvement assessment shall be paid by the municipality, county, State of
Tennessee, or United States Government, as the case may be. In the case of the
State of Tennessee, the amount of improvement assessment shall be certified by
the municipality to the Commissioner of Finance who shall direct the State
Treasurer to pay the same to the municipality out of an appropriate
appropriation or from any money in the State Treasury not otherwise
appropriated. No benefited property shall be exempt from improvement
assessments. Improvement assessments against such public property shall be
enforceable by writ of mandamus or other appropriate remedy. [As added by Priv.
Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 11]
SECTION 6A.12. Payment of assessments; penalties and interest for delinquency.
   That annual improvement assessments for each improvement shall be made by
the governing body when the levy of municipal property taxes is made; and such
improvement assessments shall be due at the same time, or times, the municipal
property taxes are due, and shall be subject to the same penalties and accrual
of interest in the event of non-payment as in the case of municipal property
taxes. The governing body may permit owners of benefited property to pay
improvement assessments in equal monthly installments, the first installment to
be due and payable when the improvement assessment is due; in this event any
monthly payment shall be delinquent 30 days after it is due and payable, and
the whole balance of the annual improvement assessment shall thereupon become
delinquent and be subject to all penalties and interest as provided in this Act
(Article.) [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 12]
SECTION 6A.13. Assessments to constitute liens.
   That each improvement assessment, with any penalty or interest incident to
the nonpayment thereof, shall constitute a lien upon the lot or parcel of
benefited property against which it is assessed. The lien shall attach to each
lot or parcel of benefited property at the time the annual improvement
assessment is made, and thereupon shall take precedence over all othe liens,
whether created prior to or subsequent to the making of such improvement
assessment, except State, county and municipal property taxes, and prior
special assessments. Said lien shall not be defeated or postponed by any
private or judicial sale, by any mortgage, or by any error or mistake in the
description of the property or in the names of the owners, if the description
is sufficient to identify the property subject to the assessment. No
irregularity in the proceedings of the governing body shall exempt any
benefited property from the lien for the improvement assessment, or from the
payment thereof or from the penalties or interest thereon. [As added by Priv.
Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 13]
SECTION 6A.14. Special fund for assessments.
   That the proceeds received by the municipality from improvement assessments
made in connection with each separate improvement shall be segregated from and
kept always separate and apart from all other funds of the city, and shall be
deposited in a financial institution in a special account designated as the
"Parking Improvement (No.) Special Fund." [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch.
276, § 14]
SECTION 6A.15. Disposition of collected assessments; calculation of annual
assessments, etc.
   That (a) all sums received and deposited in each such special fund shall be
held inviolate and applied by the municipality solely for the payment of the
principal of, and interest on, the bonds issued for the financing of the
identified improvement, except as otherwise provided herein. The amounts
collected and deposited in each such special fund from the first improvement
assessments in connection with any improvement, in excess of maturing principal
and interest on the bonds, for the purpose of creating a "debt service reserve"
as provide in Section 6 (
6A.06), hereof, shall be held in the special fund for that purpose. If
collections of the first annual improvement assessments shall fail to produce a
sum sufficient to provide the minimum "debt service reserve" required by
Section 6 (
6A.06) hereof, the next annual improvement assessments shall be fixed at such
levels as may be necessary to constitue said minimum "debt service reserve"
after providing for the current year's principal and interest maturities. If,
at the time of making subsequent improvement assessments, the sum held in a
special fund as the "debt service reserve" shall exceed the level herein
specified, such excess may be taken into account in calculating the improvement
assessments for the current year; and if the amount so held in said "debt
service reserve" is below said specified level, the next annual improvement
assessments shall be increased to constitute the "debt service reserve" at said
minimum level. In making improvement assessments for the year preceding the
final maturing of bonds for an improvement, the governing body may take into
account, and make allowance for, the amount held in the special fund of the
particular improvement as a "debt service reserve." If the governing body shall
miscalculate and provide funds insufficient to pay the final maturing principal
and interest, it shall make subsequent improvement assessments upon the
benefited properties sufficient to make up the deficiency, including interest
to date of payment. If the procedures required by this Act shall result in a
surplus after payment of the bonds and all interest thereon, such surplus shall
be refunded, pro rata, to the owners of benefited properties of record at the
date such surplus is ascertained by the governing body to exist.
      (b)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this Act (Article), no
improvement assessment may be increased more than 5 per cent on account of
insufficient collection of improvement assessments. The municipality shall
provide from its general funds, by issuance of bonds as provided by general law
for public works if necessary, such additional funds as may be required on
account of insufficient collection of improvement assessments to pay principal
and interest on the improvement assessment bonds when due. Whatever amount of
delinquent improvement assessments are eventually collected by enforcement of
liens or by other means shall be applied to the source of such additional
funds, the general funds of the municipality, or to retire any bonds that were
issued. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 15]
SECTION 6A.16. Additional bonds or funds to cover deficiency.
   That (a) if, by reason of miscalculation or the happening of unforeseen
events or conditions, the proceeds of the bonds authorized by the Bond
Resolution should prove to be insufficient to pay in full the improvement costs
assessed against benefited properties, the governing body shall be authorized
to issue and sell additional bonds sufficient to make up the deficiency, and
such additional bonds shall rank on a parity with the bonds originally
authorized and shall be retired by improvement assessments in the same manner
as the original bonds.
      (b)   The municipality may use any funds legally available to it,
including proceeds from bonds issued under any other legislative authority, to
pay for that portion of the cost of an improvement not financed by bonds
secured by improvement assessments. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, §
16]
SECTION 6A.17. Refunding bonds.
   That the governing body may issue refunding bonds for the purpose of
providing for the payment of any outstanding bonds. The refunding bonds shall
be secured by improvement assessments in the same manner as provided herein for
the bonds which are refunded. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 17]
SECTION 6A.18. Use of parking facilities; disposition of revenues.
   That the use by the public of all public parking facilities acquired,
constructed, installed or substantially reconstructed under the provisions of
this act shall be free or for such charge or charges as shall be determined by
the governing body to be collected either by parking meters or by attendants or
othewise. The cost of maintaining, operating, and policing such facilities
shall be borne by the city of from revenues resulting from any charges made by
the governing body. Any surplus revenues over and above a reasonable reserve
resulting from charges for the use of such facilities will be applied to reduce
special assessments so long as any bonds issued hereinunder are outstanding.
Thereafter any such surplus may be used as the governing body shall direct. [As
added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 18]
SECTION 6A.19. Severability clause.
   That the provisions of this Act (Article) are hereby declared to be
severable. If any of its sections, provisions, exceptions, sentences, clauses,
phrases or parts be held unconstitutional or void the remainder of this Act
(Article) shall continue in full force and effect, it being the legislative
intent now hereby declared that this Act (Article) would have been adopted even
if such unconstitutional or void matter had not been included therein. [As
added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 19]
SECTION 6A.20. Approval required.
   That this act (article) shall become operative in accordance with its
provisions upon approval by a two-thirds vote of the governing body of the City
of Cookeville. The presiding officer of said body shall certify the results
thereof to the Secretary of State. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 20]
SECTION 6A.21. Date of effect.
   That this Act (Article) shall become effective from and after its passage,
the public welfare requiring it. [As added by Priv. Acts 1970, ch. 276, § 21]
ARTICLE VII.
CITY JUDGE AND CITY COURT; CITY ATTORNEY.
SECTION 7.01. City Court Established; Jurisdiction.
   A city court, presided over by the city judge, on a full or part time basis
as provided by ordinance is hereby established, which shall have jurisdiction
over violations of the ordinances of the city. The council shall appoint and
fix the salary of the city judge for terms of two (2) years, and such salary
shall not be changed during a term of office. The council may impeach and
remove the city judge for neglect or refusal to enforce the ordinances of the
city or for other misconduct in office or neglect of duty, but any person so
removed may appeal to the circuit court and thence to the supreme court of the
state. The city attorney, or an assistant city attorney, shall be the
prosecuting officer of the court. The city judge shall recuse himself from any
case or proceeding in which such judge:
      (a)   Is interested,
      (b)   Is related to the defendant by blood or marriage within the third
degree, or
      (c)   Believes, for any reason, that he will be prejudiced.
   Such a case of proceeding, as well as cases and proceedings during the
absence or disability of the city judge, shall be heard by an acting city judge
appointed by the mayor. The mayor may remove the acting city judge at any time
without cause. The council shall, by ordinance, fix the compensation of an
acting city judge. The city judge shall have authority to impose fines, costs,
forfeitures, and imprisonment in the city jail or workhouse, as provided by
ordinance. Warrants, subpoenas, and other processes of the city court shall be
executed by police officers of the city, who for such purposes shall have the
same powers and authority as a sheriff executing process of a circuit court.
[As replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45 § 9]
SECTION 7.02. Appeals.
   Be it further enacted, That any person dissatisfied with a judgment of the
city judge shall have the right, within three entire days thereafter, Sundays
and holidays excepted, to appeal to the next term of the circuit court, upon
depositing a cash bond or giving an appearance bond, which shall not exceed
five hundred dollars ($500), with good and sufficient surety, as approved by
the city judge or clerk of the city court, for the appearance of such person at
the next term of the circuit court and faithful prosecution of the appeal from
the city court to the circuit court. The appeal and appearance bond shall be
substantially in the following form:
   STATE OF TENNESSEE CITY OF.................
   We bind ourselves unto the City of...........in the sum of..........Dollars,
to be void if..................., who has this day appealed to the next term of
the Circuit Court for.............County, from a judgment of THE CITY COURT
OF............... against
said...........for............................Dollars, shall personally appear
and prosecute said appeal successfully, or in case of failure to do so shall
comply with and perform the judgment of said City Court. This...........day of,
19......
   Approved:
.................................
...........................
   Principal
...........................
   Surety
...........................
   Surety
   In the event a person files such an appeal to the next term of the circuit
court, by giving the bond as herein provided, and fails to appear at the next
term of the circuit court or fails to prosecute the appeal, and such person is
fined or the judgment of the city court is affirmed in the circuit court, then
such person and his sureties on the appeal and appearance bond shall be jointly
and severally liable for the fine and costs, and the judgment shall be entered
accordingly in the circuit court. In the event such person appears and
prosecutes said appeal and the judgment of the city court is affirmed, and such
person performs the judgment of the city court, then the sureties on his bond
shall not be liable on said appeal and appearance bond, and the judgment shall
be entered accordingly. But if such person appears and prosecutes the appeal
and if fined or the judgment of the city court if affirmed, then such person
shall be in the hands of the chief of police of the city to perform the
judgment of the circuit court. In the event such a person is unable to deposit
a cash bond or give an appeal and appearance bond with good sureties, such
person shall have the right to appeal, within the time fixed herein, to the
next term of the circuit court, by filing with the clerk of the city court, or
with the city judge, a pauper's oath, and such person shall remain in the
custody of the city, unless an appearance bond with good and sufficient
sureties is later given, pending the outcome of the appeal of such person to
the next term of the circuit court.
SECTION 7.03. Warrant for Each Offense; Exception.
   Be it further enacted, That in so far as practicable only one warrant shall
be issued for all parties charged with the commission of the same offense. An
arrest may be made only upon a warrant duly issued, except for an offense
committed in the presence of the officer or person making the arrest or when
the arresting officer or person has good reason to believe that a felony has
been committed. An affidavit upon which a warrant is issued shall specifically
state the offense charged. Warrants shall be of the same form proscribed by law
for issuance by justices of the peace.
SECTION 7.04. Other Officers May Decide Lesser Traffic Offenses.
   Be it further enacted, That the council by ordinance may authorize an
officer or employee of the city, other than the city judge, to accept pleas of
guilty and to fix fines in cases of minor traffic violations.
SECTION 7.05. Clerk of Court and Other Employees.
   Be it further enacted, That a clerk of the city court, and such other
employees as may be authorized by ordinance, to be appointed by the city
manager, shall assist the city judge. The clerk of the city court shall have
concurrent authority with the city judge to issue warrants and take bail bond.
SECTION 7.06. Court Docket.
   Be it further enacted, That the city judge shall keep or cause to be kept a
court docket embodying complete, detailed records of all cases handled by him,
showing the offenses charged, and fines, costs, and forfeitures imposed, or
other disposition made of each case, and the officers connected with each case.
The director of finance, with the approval of the city manager, may prescribe
the form and manner of keeping such records. The docket shall include the
following information: (a) the name, of the defendant, (b) the nature of the
offense, (c) the plea, (d) the date of the trial, (e) the names of witnesses
sworn and examined, (f) the findings of the court, (g) the judgment rendered,
(h) the amount and date of payment of fines, costs, and forfeitures, (1) the
date of issuing commitment if any, and (j) every other fact necessary to show
the full proceeding in the case and its final disposition.
SECTION 7.07. City Attorney.
   The city shall have a city attorney who shall serve on a part-time basis or
a full-time basis as follows:
      (a)   In the event the council elects to retain a city attorney to serve
on a part-time basis, the council shall appoint and fix the compensation ofthe
city attorney for a term of two (2) years, together with such assistant city
attorneys as may be authorized by ordinance or resolution. The city attorney
shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation
in which the city is a party, shall attend all meetings of the council, shall
advise the council, city manager, and other officers and employees of the city
concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, shall approve as to form and
legality all contracts, deeds, bonds, ordinances, resolutions, motions, and
other official documents, and shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by the council or city manager.
      (b)   In the event the council elects to create a legal department
directed by a full-time city attorney, the city attorney and such other
employees as may be authorized by ordinance shall be appointed by the city
manager, and shall be confirmed by the city council. The city attorney shall
have control and supervision over all employees assigned to the legal
department, subject to the supervision of the city manager. The city attorney
shall be responsible for representing and defending the city in all litigation,
or shall assist other attorneys that may represent the city in litigation in
which the city is a party. The city attorney shall attend all meetings of the
city council, shall advise the council, city manager, and other officers and
employees of the city concerning legal aspects of the city's affairs, shall
approve as to form and legality all contracts, deeds, bonds, ordinances,
resolutions, and other legal documents, and shall perform such other duties as
may be prescribed by the council or city manager. [As replaced by Priv. Acts
2007, ch. 45 § 10]
ARTICLE VIII.
UTILITIES.
SECTION 8.01. Authority to Own or Operate Public Utility.
   Be it further enacted, That the city shall have the authority to own or
operate any public utility, including but not limited to electric, water, gas,
transportation, and telephone systems, to construct and install all facilities
that are reasonably needed, and to lease or purchase any existing utility
properties used or useful for such utility service. The city may also furnish
service in adjacent and nearby communities and areas beyond its corporate
limits which may be conveniently and economically served by a city-owned
utility, subject to agreements with residents of such communities and areas and
any provisions of general laws.
   Before constructing or acquiring a new utility, an election shall be held in
which all qualified voters of the city may vote in a special election called
for the purpose or in a regular city election as provided by resolution and
following at least thirty (30) days published notice in the official city
newspaper, and such proposed construction or acquisition and the issuance of
bonds therefor shall be authorized only after a favorable vote of at least a
majority of the votes cast thereon.
SECTION 8.02. Accounting System.
   Be it further enacted, That separate financial and accounting records shall
be maintained to show the financial operation and condition of each utility, in
accordance with generally accepted principles of utility accounting and as may
be required by the city council. Such records shall be maintained by each
utility as prescribed by the director of finance, with the approval of the city
manager, and an annual financial and administrative report on each utility
shall be submitted to the city manager at such time and in such form as the
council may require. The director of finance may require, periodically, each
utility to furnish summary data for general accounts maintained in his office.
If required by the council, all such accounts and records may be maintained in
the department of finance, based on data furnished by each utility.
SECTION 8.03. Budgets and Allotments.
   Be it further enacted, That an annual budget for each utility shall be
submitted to the city manager at such time and in such form as the council may
require and shall be subject to review by the city manager, who shall transmit
it, together with his suggestions and recommendations, to the council for final
approval. A separate fund and budget shall be established for each utility, and
appropriations therefor shall be made by the council by ordinance in the same
manner as for other departments and agencies of the city. Transfers from the
general fund of the city to a utility fund, when necessary, may be made as
authorized by ordinance, and transfers from a utility fund to the general fund
may be made by ordinance, subject to such limitations as may be imposed by law
or contract. Each utility shall operate within allotments of appropriated funds
made on the request and recommendation of the superintendent in charge of the
utility.
SECTION 8.04. Other Laws and Ordinances May Apply.
   Be it further enacted, That the council by ordinance may elect to operate
any utility under the provisions of any other general law of the state instead
of under the provisions of this Act. The provisions of any other general law
relating to a utility, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, may
also be adopted by the council for a utility operated under this Act. The
council may adopt ordinances providing for the times and manner of billing and
collecting charges for utility services, the conditions of services to
customers, and other phases of operation and management of any utility, not
inconsistent with this Act, other general laws, or any contract, on the
recommendation of the board or commission in charge thereof, or of the city
manager if the utility is operated as a department of the city; or the council
may delegate such authority to the board or commission in charge of a utility.
SECTION 8.05. Municipal Utilities Separate Enterprises.
   Be it further enacted, That the water, electric, gas, transportation,
telephone, or any other utility owned or operated by the city shall each be
conducted as a separate enterprise as far as practicable, but joint operations
for the purpose of using the same personnel and equipment to reduce costs and
improve efficiency is authorized, providing the accounting system is maintained
so as to show a reasonable allocation of such joint expenses to each utility.
ARTICLE IX.
HOSPITALS.
SECTION 9.01. Board of trustees.
   The Cookeville City Council shall take necessary action to elect and replace
the members of the Board of Trustees of Cookeville Regional Medical Center
Authority, as provided in the private act creating such authority. 1 [As
replaced by Priv. Acts 1999, ch. 49, § 16]
1   See related Priv. Acts 1999, ch. 49, on page C-60 for the full text.
ARTICLE X.
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS.
SECTION 10.01. Municipal Elections.
   Be it further enacted, that the regular election for the choice of members
of the city council shall be held on the same day as the regular August
election at which time five (5) councilmen shall be elected to serve a four (4)
year term. No councilman shall serve more than two (2) consecutive four (4)
year terms. The term of office shall begin on the date specified in Section
2.12 of the Cookeville City Charter.
      (b)   If this act is approved, the five (5) councilmen elected on June
16, 1994, shall serve until the next council is duly elected and sworn in 1998.
[As replaced by Priv. Acts 1988, ch. 187, § 2; and Priv. Acts 1994, ch. 145]
SECTION 10.02. Regulation of Elections.
   Be it further enacted, That municipal elections shall be conducted by the
regular election authorities for Putnam County who shall also have power to
make such regulations not inconsistent with this charter. The term "qualified
elector" as used in this charter shall mean a citizen having the qualifications
required by law to vote in the city who is at the time registered to vote.
SECTION 10.03. Nominations.
   Be it further enacted, that a qualified elector of the city may be nominated
for the council by petition of any twenty-five (25) or more such electors. With
each signature shall be stated the place of residence of the signer, giving the
street and number or other description sufficient to identify it. Candidates
shall file their nominating petitions no later than twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon, prevailing time, on the forth-fifth calendar day before the election. If
this day fall on a Sunday, then the petition shall be filed no later than
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, prevailing time, on the immediate preceding
Saturday and shall be in substantially the following form:
   We the undersigned electors of the City of Cookeville, hereby nominate
___________, whose residence is ____________________, for the office of
councilman, to be voted for at the election to be held on the ___ day of
______, 19___; and we individually certify that our names have appeared on the
rolls of registered voters within the last year, that we are qualified to vote
for a candidate for the council.
   Name Street and Number Address from Date of which last Signing registered
(if different)
(Spaces for Signatures and Required Data)
   Acceptance of Nomination
   I hereby accept the nomination for the council and agree to serve if
elected.
   Signature of candidate ________________________
   Date and hour of filing _______________________
   This petition is filed by _________________________ whose address is
___________________________________
   Received by _______________________________________
(Signature of Election Official)
   The election authorities shall take and preserve the name and address of the
person by whom each nominating petition is filed. No nominating petition shall
be accepted unless accompanied by a signed acceptance of the nomination.
   Any candidate may withdraw his nomination not later than seven (7) days
after the deadline for filing nominating petitions by filing a notice of
withdrawal with the election authorities. Within five (5) days after the filing
of a nominating petition the election authorities shall notify the candidate
and the person who filed the petition whether or not it is found to be signed
by the required number of qualified electors. If a petition is found
insufficient, the election authorities shall return it immediately to the
person who filed it with a statement certifying wherein the petition is found
insufficient. Within the regular time for filing petitions a new petition may
be filed for the same candidate. The petition of each candidate nominated to be
a member of the council shall be preserved by the election authorities until
the expiration of the term of office for which he has been nominated. [As
replaced by Priv. Acts 1989, ch. 8; and amended by Priv.
   Acts 1991, ch. 134]
SECTION 10.04. Council Ballots.
   Be it further enacted, That (a) the full names of all candidates nominated
for the council as hereinabove provided, except such as may have withdrawn,
died or become ineligible, shall be printed on the official ballots without
party designations. If two candidates with the same surname, or with names so
similar as to be likely to cause confusion, are nominated, the address of their
places of residence shall be placed with their names on the ballot.
      (b)   The names of the candidates shall be arranged in the alphabetical
order of their surnames.
SECTION 10.05. Voting Machines.
   Be it further enacted, That the Putnam County Election Commission shall have
power to provide for the use of mechanical or other devices for voting or
counting the votes in accordance with the principles set forth in this charter.
For this purpose the commission may modify the form of the ballot, the method
of expressing choices and the arrangements for conducting the election and the
count, but no change shall be made which will alter or impair the principles of
the voting or of the counting.
ARTICLE XI.
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
SECTION 11.01. Power of Initiative.
   Be it further enacted, That the electors shall have power to propose any
ordinance, except an ordinance appropriating money or authorizing the levy of
taxes, and to adopt or reject the same at the polls, such power being known as
the initiative. Any initiated ordinance may be submitted to the council by a
petition signed by qualified electors of the city equal in number to at least
ten per centum of the registered voters at the last regular municipal election.
SECTION 11.02. Power of Referendum.
   Be it further enacted, That the electors shall have power to approve or
reject at the polls any ordinance passed by the council, or submitted by the
council to a vote of the electors, such power been known as the referendum.
Ordinances submitted to the council by initiative petition and passed by the
council without change shall be subject to the referendum in the same manner as
other ordinances. Within 14 days after the enactment by the council of any
ordinance which is subject to a referendum, a petition signed by qualified
electors of the city equal in number to at least 25 per centum of the
registered voters at the last preceding regular municipal election may be filed
with the city clerk requesting that any such ordinance be either repealed or
submitted to a vote of the electors.
SECTION 11.03. Form of Petitions: Committee of Petitioners.
   Be it further enacted, That all petition papers circulated for the purposes
of an initiative or referendum shall be uniform in size and style. Initiative
petition papers shall contain the full text of the proposed ordinance. The
signatures to initiative or referendum petitions need not all be appended to
one paper, but to each separate petition there shall be attached a statement of
the circulator thereof as provided by this section. Each signer of any such
petition paper shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil and shall
indicate after his name his place of residence by street and number, or other
description sufficient to identify the place. There shall appear on each
petition the names and addresses of the same five electors, who, as a committee
of the petitioners, shall be regarded as responsible for the circulation and
filing of the petition. Attached to each separate petition paper there shall be
an affidavit of the circulator thereof that he, and he only, personally
circulated the foregoing paper, that it bears a stated number of signatures,
that all the signatures appended thereto were made in his presence, and that he
believes them to be the genuine signatures of the persons whose names they
purport to be.
SECTION 11.04. Filing, Examination and Certification of Petitions.
   Be it further enacted, That all petition papers comprising an initiative or
referendum petition shall be assembled and filed with the city clerk as one
instrument. Within twenty days after a petition is filed, the city clerk shall
determine whether each paper of the petition has a proper statement of the
circulator and whether the petition is signed by a sufficient number of
qualified electors. The city clerk shall declare any petition paper entirely
invalid which does not have attached thereto an affidavit signed by the
circulator thereof. If a petition paper is found to be signed by more persons
than the number of signatures certified by the circulator, the last signatures
in excess of the number certified shall be disregarded. If a petition paper is
found to be signed by fewer persons than the number certified, the signatures
shall be accepted unless void on other grounds. After completing his
examination of the petition, the city clerk shall certify the result thereof to
the council at its next regular meeting.
   If he shall certify that the petition is insufficient he shall set forth in
his certificate the particulars in which it is defective and shall at once
notify the committee of the petitioners of his findings.
SECTION 11.05. Amendment of Petitions.
   Be it further enacted, That an initiative or referendum petition may be
amended at any time within ten days after the notification of insufficiency has
been sent by the city clerk, by filing a supplementary petition upon additional
papers signed and filed as provided in case of an original petition. The city
clerk shall, within five days after such an amendment is filed, make
examination of the amended petition and, if the petition be still insufficient,
he shall file his certificate to that effect in his office and notify the
committee of the petitioners of his findings and no further action shall be had
on such insufficient petition. The findings of the insufficiency of a petition
shall not prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
SECTION 11.06. Effect of Certification of Referendum Petition.
   Be it further enacted, That when a referendum petition, or amended petition,
has been certified as sufficient by the city clerk, the ordinance specified in
the petition shall not go into effect, or further action thereunder shall be
suspended if it shall have gone into effect, until and unless approved by the
electors, as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 11.07. Consideration by Council.
   Be it further enacted, That whenever council receives a certified initiative
or referendum petition from the city clerk, it shall proceed at once to
consider such petition. A proposed initiative ordinance shall be read and
provision shall be made for a public hearing upon the proposed ordinance. The
council shall take final action on the ordinance not later than sixty days
after the date on which such ordinance was submitted to the council by the city
clerk. A referred ordinance shall be reconsidered by the council and its final
vote upon such reconsideration shall be upon the question, "Shall the ordinance
specified in the referendum petition be repealed?"
SECTION 11.08. Submission to Electors.
   Be it further enacted, That if the council shall fail to pass an ordinance
proposed by initiative petition, or shall pass it in a form different from that
set forth in the petition therefor, or if the council fail to repeal a referred
ordinance, the proposed or referred ordinance shall be submitted to the
electors not less than thirty days nor more than one year from the date the
council takes its final vote thereon. The council may, in its discretion, and
if no regular election is to be held within such period shall, provide for a
special election.
SECTION 11.09. Form of Ballot for Initiated and Referred Ordinances.
   Be it further enacted, That ordinances submitted to vote of the electors in
accordance with the initiative and referendum provisions of this charter shall
be submitted by ballot title, which shall be prepared in all cases by the legal
adviser of the city. The ballot title may be different from the legal title of
any such initiated or referred ordinance and shall be a clear, concise
statement, without argument or prejudice, descriptive of the substance of such
ordinance.
   The ballot used in voting upon any ordinance, if a paper ballot, shall leave
below the ballot title the following propositions, one above the other, in the
order indicated: "FOR THE ORDINANCE" and "AGAINST THE ORDINANCE."
   Immediately at the left of each proposition there shall be a square in which
by making a cross (X) the elector may vote for or against the ordinance. Any
number of ordinances may be voted on at the same election and may be submitted
on the same ballot, but any paper ballot used for voting thereon shall be for
that purpose only. If voting machines are used, the ballot title of any
ordinance shall have below it the same two propositions, one above the other or
one preceding the other in the order indicated, and the elector shall be given
an opportunity to vote for either of the two propositions and thereby to vote
for or against the ordinance.
SECTION 11.10. Results of Election.
   Be it further enacted, That if a majority of the electors voting on a
proposed initiative ordinance shall vote in favor thereof, it shall thereupon
be an ordinance of the city. A referred ordinance which is not approved by a
majority of the electors voting thereon shall thereupon be deemed repealed. If
conflicting ordinances are approved by the electors at the same election, the
one receiving the greatest number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the
extent of such conflict.
SECTION 11.11. Repealing Ordinances: Publication.
   Be it further enacted, That initiative and referendum ordinances adopted or
approved by the electors shall be published, and may be amended or repealed by
the council, as in the case of other ordinances.
ARTICLE XII.
[As deleted by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 45 § 11]
ARTICLE XIII.
SUCCESSION IN GOVERNMENT.
SECTION 13.01. Rights of Officers and Employees Preserved.
   Be it further enacted, That in this Act, at the time it becomes effective,
except as otherwise specifically provided, shall not affect or impair the
rights or privileges of officers or employees of the city relating to
personnel, appointment, ranks, grades, tenure of office, promotion, removal,
pensions, and retirement, or the status and authority of any office,
department, or agency existing at the time when this Act shall take effect, or
any provision of law in force at the time when this Act shall take effect,
which is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
SECTION 13.02. Continuance of Present Officers. Be it further enacted,
   That all officers and employees of the city at the time this Act shall take
effect shall continue in office and employment and in the performance of their
duties until provisions shall have been made in accordance with this Act for
the performance of such duties or the discontinuance of such office or
employment.
   The powers conferred and the duties imposed upon any office, department, or
agency of the city by the laws of the state, if such office, department, or
agency be abolished by this Act or under its authority, shall thereafter be
exercised and discharged as provided in this Act or by ordinance.
SECTION 13.03. Transfer of Records and Property.
   Be it further enacted, That all records, property, and equipment of any
office, department, agency, or part thereof, all the powers and duties of which
are assigned to any other office, department, or agency under this Act, shall
be transferred and delivered to the office, department, or agency to which such
powers and duties are so assigned. If part of the powers and duties of any
office, department, agency, or part thereof, are under this Act assigned to
another office, department, or agency, all records, property, and equipment
relating exclusively thereto shall be transferred and delivered to the office,
department, or agency to which such powers and duties are so assigned.
SECTION 13.04. Continuity of Offices, Departments and Agencies.
   Be it further enacted, That any office, department, or agency established
under this Act, with a name or with powers and duties the same or substantially
the same as those of an office, department or agency existing before this Act
became effective, shall be deemed to be a continuation of such office,
department, or agency and shall continue to exercise its powers and duties. Any
provisions in any law, rule, regulation, contract, grant, or other document
relating to such a formerly existing office, department, or agency, in so far
as not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall apply to such
office, department, or agency established by or under the authority of this Act
until repealed, amended, or modified as provided in this Act.
SECTION 13.05. Continuance of Contracts and Public Improvement.
   Be it further enacted, That all contracts entered into by the city, or for
its benefits, prior to the taking effect of this Act, shall continue in full
force and effect.
   Public improvements for which legislative steps have been taken under laws
or charter provisions existing at the time this Act takes effect may be carried
to completion as nearly as practicable in accordance with the provisions of
such existing laws and charter provisions or under the provisions of this Act,
at the option of the council.
SECTION 13.06. Pending Actions and Proceedings.
   Be it further enacted, That no action or proceeding, civil or criminal,
pending at the time when this Act shall take effect, brought by or against the
city of any office, department, or agency thereof, shall be affected or abated
by the adoption of this Act. All such actions or proceedings may be continued
notwithstanding that the functions, powers, and duties of any office,
department, or agency a part thereto, by or under this Act, may be assigned or
transferred to another office, department, or agency, but in that event the
same may be prosecuted or defended by the head of the office, department, or
agency to which such functions, powers, and duties have been assigned or
transferred by or under this Act.
ARTICLE XIV.
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
SECTION 14.01. Right of City Manager and Other Officers in Council.
   Be it further enacted, That the city manager, the heads of all departments,
and such other officers of the city as may be designated by vote of the
council, shall be entitled to seats in the council, but shall have no vote
therein. The city manager shall have the right to take part in the discussion
of all matters coming before the council, and the directors and other officers
shall be entitled to take part in all discussions of the council relating to
their respective offices, departments or agencies.
SECTION 14.02. Investigations by Council or City Manager.
   Be it further enacted, That the council, the city manager, or any person or
committee authorized by either or them, shall have power to inquire into the
conduct of any office, department, agency or officer of the city and to make
investigations as to municipal affairs, and for that purpose may subpoena
witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the production of relevant books,
papers and other evidence.
   Failure to obey such subpoena or to produce such books, papers or other
evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed ten dollars
($10.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed ten (10) days, or both.
SECTION 14.03. Contracts Extending Beyond One Year.
   Be it further enacted, That no contract involving the payment of money out
of the appropriations of more than one year, other than bonds, or other
obligations lawfully issued, shall be made for a period of more than five
years; nor shall any such contract be valid unless made or approved by
ordinance or resolution. This Section shall not apply to contracts entered into
by the City Council which have been approved by resolution authorizing a
contract not to exceed forty (40) years for the construction of a public
building or other public facility where the revenues derived from said public
building or other public facility or the use thereof shall retire the cost of
construction of the said public building or other public facility and
amortization thereof, and the purchase of the real estate on which the public
building or other public facility is located. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 1963,
ch. 74, § 11; and amended by Priv. Acts 1967, ch. 485, § 4]
SECTION 14.04. Publicity of Records.
   Be it further enacted, That all records and accounts of every office,
department or agency of the city shall be open to inspection by any citizen of
Cookeville, any representative of a citizens' organization of Cookeville or any
representative of the press at all reasonable times and under reasonable
regulations established by the city manager or city council, except health and
personnel records of a confidential nature, and records and documents the
disclosure of which would tend to defeat the lawful purpose which they are
intended to accomplish.
SECTION 14.05. Conflicts of Interest.
   Tennessee Code Annotated, Sections 12-4- 101, 6-54-107 and 6-54-108, as
subsequently amended, shall be effective in Cookeville, Tennessee, the same as
if said code sections were copied herein verbatim. [As replaced by Private
Chapter 67 2012]
SECTION 14.06. Official Bonds.
   Be it further enacted, That the director of finance, the tax collector, and
such other officers or employees as the council may by general ordinance
require so to do, shall give bond in such amount and with such surety as may be
approved by the council. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the city.
SECTION 14.07. Oath of Office.
   Be it further enacted, That every officer of the city shall, before entering
upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe to the following oath or
affirmation, to be filed and kept in the office of the city clerk:
   "I solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the constitution and will
obey the laws of the United States and of the State of Tennessee, that I will,
in all respects, observe the provisions of the charter and ordinances of the
CITY OF COOKEVILLE, and will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
........................."
SECTION 14.08. Penalties.
   Be it further enacted, That the violation of any provision of this Act, for
which a penalty is not specifically provided herein, is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than fifty dollars
($50), or by imprisonment for not to exceed one year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
SECTION 14.09. Repeal of Laws in Conflict.
   Be it further enacted, That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this
Act be and the same are hereby repealed.
SECTION 14.10. Severability.
   Be it further enacted, That if any article, section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, or part thereof, of this Act shall be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect or
impair any other parts of this Act unless it clearly appears that such other
parts are wholly and necessarily dependent upon the part or parts held to be so
invalid or unconstitutional, it being the legislative intent in enacting this
Act that each article, section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or part
thereof, be enacted separately and independently of each other.
SECTION 14.11. Local Approval and Date of Applicability.
   Be it further enacted, That this Act shall have no effect unless and until
the same shall have been approved by a majority of those voting in a special
referendum in the CITY OF COOKEVILLE, which election shall be held not less
than thirty days nor more than forty-five days after the approval of this Act
by the Governor of this State. The Mayor shall certify to the Secretary of
State the approval or disapproval of the voters voting in such election. Except
for the purpose of nomination members and electing of the council as provided
in Article X, this Act shall not be applicable to the CITY OF COOKEVILLE until
July 1, 1961.
SECTION 14.12. Effective Date.
   Be it further enacted, That this Act shall take effect from and after its
passage, the public welfare requiring it.
   Passed: March 13, 1961.
   JAMES L. BOMAR,
   Speaker of the House of Representatives.
   Wm. D. BAIRD,
   Speaker of the Senate.
   Approved: March 15, 1961.
   BUFORD ELLINGTON,
   Governor.
   This is to certify that according to the official records on file in this
office, House Bill Number 816, which is Chapter Number 223 of the Private Acts
of 1961, was properly ratified and approved and is therefore operative and in
effect in accordance with its provisions.
   JOE C. CARR,
   Secretary of State
   RELATED ACT
   PAGE
   Priv. Acts 1999, ch. 49
"Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority"
   PRIVATE ACTS, 1999
   CHAPTER NO. 49
   HOUSE BILL NO. 1984
   By Representative Hargrove
   Substituted for: Senate Bill No. 1987
   By Senator Burks
   An Act to establish the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority and to
amend Chapter 223 of the Private Acts of 1961; as subsequently amended by
various private acts, including Chapter 61 of the Private Acts of 1995; Chapter
209 of the Private Acts of 1996 and Chapter 14 of the Private Acts of 1997; and
any other acts amendatory thereto, relative to the Cookeville Regional Medical
Center.
   WHEREAS, Cookeville Regional Medical Center was established as part of the
Charter of the City of Cookeville pursuant to Chapter 223 of the Private Acts
of 1961 of the Private Acts of 1995, Chapter 209 of the Private Acts of 1996,
and Chapter 14 of the Private Acts of 1997; and
   WHEREAS, Chapter 223 of the Private Acts of 1961, as subsequently amended,
established a Board of Trustees for Cookeville Regional Medical Center, the
powers and duties for such Board of Trustees, terms of offices and elections of
successors for such Board of Trustees, and other powers relative to the
operation of Cookeville Regional Hospital and related facilities; and
   WHEREAS, significant changes in the delivery of health care have occurred
since the establishment of Cookeville Regional Medical Center and its Board of
Trustees; and
   WHEREAS, the organization of the Board of Trustees of Cookeville Regional
Medical Center as part of the Cookeville City Charter creates constraints on
the authority and operations of such Board of Trustees so as to preclude it
from responding to the changes in the delivery of health care; and
   WHEREAS, the General Assembly finds that the operations of Cookeville
Regional Medical Center and related facilities will be enhanced if its Board of
Trustees is reconstituted as a private act hospital authority as that term is
used in 1996 Tenn. Pub. Acts, Ch. 778, the Private Act Hospital Authority Act
of 1996; and
   WHEREAS, the purpose of this act is to reconstitute the Board of Trustees of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center as the Board of Trustees of the Cookeville
Regional Medical Center Authority, such to have the powers granted to private
act hospital authorities under the Private Act Hospital Authority Act of 1996;
now, therefore,
   BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE:
   SECTION 1. There is hereby created the Cookeville Regional Medical Center
Authority established for the purpose of operating Cookeville Regional Hospital
and all other hospital, clinical and health care facilities related thereto.
   SECTION 2. Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority is a private act
hospital authority as that term is used in 1996 Tenn. Pub. Acts, Ch. 778, the
Private Act Hospital Authority Act of 1996. All hospital, clinical and health
care facilities operated and controlled by the Board of Trustees of Cookeville
Regional Medical Center, as set forth in the City Charter of Cookeville as of
the effective date of this act, shall hereinafter be operated and controlled by
the Board of Trustees of Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority. The
Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority shall have the right to use the
name of Cookeville Regional Medical Center, Cookeville Regional Hospital and
any other names adopted by its Board of Trustees.
   In exercising its rights, powers and obligations pursuant to Chapter 778 of
the Public Acts of 1996 and Chapter 49 of the Private Acts of 1999, Cookeville
Regional Medical Center Authority:
   (1)   Shall not borrow money in its own name without prior approval of a
majority vote of the Cookeville City Council; and
   (2)   Shall not purchase real property without the prior approval by a
majority vote of the Cookeville City Council.
   All real property purchased by the Authority shall be titled to the City of
Cookeville. [As amended by Priv. Acts 2000, ch. 115, § 1]
   SECTION 3. The Board of Trustees of the Cookeville Regional Medical Center
Authority shall be composed of nine (9) persons as set forth herein.
   Upon approval of the local governing body, as set forth in section 17 below,
he initial Board of Trustees of Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority
shall be the same persons who are the Board of Trustees of Cookeville Regional
Medical Center upon such date. The terms of the additional Board of Trustees of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority shall continue until the
respective dates of expiration that would have been applicable under the
Charter of the City of Cookeville in the absence of this Act. Thereafter, the
election and terms of offices shall be as set forth herein. [As amended by
Priv. Acts 2000, ch. 115, §
   SECTION 4. Subject to sections 5 and 11, and other provisions relative to
removal from office, the term of office for members of the Board of Trustees
shall be for seven (7) years, and no member shall serve more than one (1) full
term without a three (3) year break. One (1) trustee shall be a member of the
active medical staff of Cookeville Regional Medical Center who will serve a
seven (7) year term, one (1) trustee shall be the person who is holding the
office of Mayor of the City of the Cookeville, or the mayor's designee from the
city council, who shall serve during the mayor's term of office, and one (1)
trustee shall be the person holding the position of Chief of Staff of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center, who shall serve during the chief of staff's
term of office. The terms of office of all members of the Board of Trustees of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center, except the Mayor of the City of Cookeville
and the hospital Chief of Staff, shall expire on July 31 of the year in which
their term of office ends, and each new trustee shall take office on August 1
after the election for trustees. The membership of the Board of Trustees of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center shall at no time include more than three (3)
physicians and no more than four (4) licensed health care providers. If a
physician or a licensed health care provider is elected mayor of the City of
Cookeville, and the membership of the Board of Trustees already includes three
(3) physicians or four (4) licensed health care providers, the mayor shall
appoint another city councilman to serve as the mayor's designee. [As replaced
by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 31, § 1, as amended by Priv. Acts 2011, ch. 24, § 1]
   SECTION 5. Annually the Cookeville City Council shall elect for a seven (7)
year term, in the manner hereinafter provided, a successor to that member of
the Board of Trustees whose term shall have expired. No action on the part of
the Cookeville City Council need be taken to replace or name a successor to the
board upon a change in the office of mayor or chief of staff, for the new mayor
and chief of staff shall automatically become an exofficio member of said Board
of Trustees. Members of said board, except members of the medical staff of
Cookeville Regional Medical Center, shall be residents of the City of
Cookeville. A trustee whose term has expired shall continue to serve until his
or her successor shall have been elected in the manner herein provided. In the
event of death or resignation of a trustee prior to the expiration of his or
her term, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term in the
same manner as the deceased or retiring trustee was elected, and shall take
office upon election. Such successor trustee shall be eligible for re-election
for a full term. Any member of the Board of Trustees can be removed from the
board by a unanimous vote of the other members of the Board of Trustees.
   SECTION 6. The Cookeville City Council shall nominate and elect the
successor trustee or trustees by a majority vote of its members. The trustee
position of the medical staff physician shall be nominated by the hospital
medical staff and presented to the city council for confirmation no later than
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the term of the trustee. The city
council shall elect the physician nominated by the medical staff or a physician
nominated by a city councilman no later than July 31 of the year in which the
current physician's term ends. [As replaced by Priv. Acts 2007, ch. 31, § 2]
   SECTION 7. The Board of Trustees shall hold regular meetings on a date or
dates which it shall establish. Called meetings may be held at any time upon
two (2) days written notice, on call of the chairman or of any three (3)
members of the said board, provided that members may waive notice of call of
any meetings. The proceedings of all meetings shall be recorded in an official
minute book which shall be a public record. Five (5) of the members of the said
Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business,
and any action taken at a meeting of the board shall be by a majority vote, a
quorum being present. As soon as practicable, the Board of Trustees shall
promulgate and record on permanent record the rules under which it will
operate.
   SECTION 8. The Board of Trustees shall meet as soon as possible after the
effective date of this act and after the election required under section 5 for
the purpose of (1) electing one of its members as chairman, (2) electing one of
its members as secretary, (3) selecting a person to serve as administrator, who
shall also serve as the treasurer of the board, and who shall execute bond for
the faithful performance of his said duties as treasurer and administrator, in
an amount to be fixed and determined by said board, said bond to be approved by
said board.
   SECTION 9. The Board of Trustees shall have the responsibility and authority
to control and operate the hospital, clinical and health care facilities
described herein; to receive all revenues derived from such facilities, and any
donations or grants; and to disburse all such monies to discharge the financial
obligations related to the facilities described in this act and otherwise as
determined by the Board of Trustees; to exercise the powers granted to private
act hospital authorities under 1996 Tenn. Pub. Acts Ch. 778; to make contracts
for goods and services; to establish policies, rules and regulations governing
the operation of the said hospital, its uses and management; and to define the
duties and establish the compensation of the administrator; to regulate
admissions to the said hospital, clinical and health care facilities and
establish reasonable rates and charges for the services rendered by such
facilities; and to collect and receipt for the same. All monies of the
authority shall be disbursed in accordance with the rules and regulations
adopted and determined by the Board of Trustees, by check signed by the
facility administrator. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the
authority of the Board of Trustees to enter into joint ownership arrangements
with other providers relative to health care facilities shall be limited to
those health care facilities that are located on the campus of Cookeville
Regional Medical Center.
   For purposes of this Act, the campus of Cookeville Regional Medical Center
shall include all real property owned by the City of Cookeville and on which
are located hospital, clinical or health care facilities. [As amended by Priv.
Acts 2000, ch. 115, § 3]
   SECTION 10. The Board of Trustees shall act as an advisory board to the City
of Cookeville concerning extensions and enlargements of hospital, clinical and
health care facility buildings or improvement of facilities requiring
alterations to such buildings, and shall recommend to the Cookeville City
Council such extensions, alterations or enlargements of buildings, or
additional buildings as from time to time may be necessary for the purpose of
providing adequate and reasonable health care services to the areas served by
said facilities.
   SECTION 11. The Board of Trustees shall annually prepare and submit to the
Cookeville City Council, through the city manager, a budget for the hospital,
clinical and health care facilities. Said budget shall be for the city's fiscal
year, shall be submitted on or before a date fixed by the Cookeville City
Council, and shall contain such pertinent information as is prescribed in the
Cookeville City Charter. Said budget shall become effective only upon approval
of the Cookeville City Council, in the manner provided by the Cookeville City
Charter.
   Said budget may be amended from time to time, in the manner provided in the
Cookeville City Charter.
   In the event said budget is exceeded without approval of the Cookeville City
Council, the entire Board of Trustees or any member thereof may be removed
within the discretion of the Cookeville City Council upon a vote of four (4) of
the members of said council; in which event the respective terms of any members
of the Board of Trustees who shall be so removed shall be immediately filled by
the Cookeville City Council, whereupon the newly constituted Board of Trustees
shall immediately resume their responsibilities as herein provided.
   SECTION 12. The Board of Trustees shall prepare and submit to the Cookeville
City Council financial statements and other reports as may be required by said
council. The Cookeville City Council shall have authority to inquire into the
operation of the hospital facilities and to this end empowered to have access
to and examine the business records of said hospital facilities during regular
business hours.
   SECTION 13. No member of the Board of Trustees shall sell merchandise or
contract for services with the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority, or
in any way engage in financial transactions with said authority, directly or
indirectly, except as provided herein, nor shall an employee of the City of
Cookeville, except as provided in sections 4 and 14 of this act, or an employee
of the Cookeville Regional Medical Center be eligible to serve on the Board of
Trustees of Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority. Professional services
agreements between Cookeville Regional Medical Center and members of its
medical staff to provide medical director services or to provide medical
services at Cookeville Regional Medical Center for patients served by the
hospital shall not be considered to be contracts for services within the
meaning of this section. [As amended by Priv. Acts 2011, ch. 24, § 2]
   SECTION 14. The administrator, assistant administrator, and the heads or
directors of all departments shall be entitled to seats on the board, but shall
have no vote therein. The administrator shall have the right to take part in
all the discussions of all matters coming before the Board of Trustees, and the
heads and directors of all departments shall be entitled to take part in all
discussions of the Board of Trustees relating to their respective offices,
departments or agencies.
   SECTION 15. (a) A referendum of the voters of the City of Cookeville
approving the sale, leasing or other transfer of the assets, buildings and real
property of the hospital and clinical facilities owned by the City of
Cookeville, including the facilities known as Cookeville Regional Medical
Center, is required prior to such sale, leasing or transfer by the Cookeville
City Council except as follows:
      (1)   The Board of Trustees of the Cookeville Regional Medical Center
Authority by majority vote of its membership adopts a resolution that finds and
declares:
         (A)   that an emergency exists in the operation of such facility
because of its rapidly deteriorating financial condition and inability to meet
current cash requirements, debts payable, or lacks adequate operating capital;
         (B)   that the continued operation of the hospital is not economically
feasible;
         (C)   that the continued operation of such facility will adversely
affect the financial stability of the city; and
      (2)   After a public hearing, the Cookeville City Council by unanimous
vote of its membership approves the recommendations of the Board of Trustees of
the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority; or
      (3)   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Cookeville Regional Medical
Center Authority by majority vote of its membership adopts a resolution that
finds and declares that part of the buildings and real property of such
facilities is no longer needed by the Board of Trustees for the operation of
such hospital and clinical facilities; that such buildings and property are
surplus; and that the board recommends to the Cookeville City Council that such
property be sold, leased or transferred by the City of Cookeville; and
         (B)   After a public hearing, the Cookeville City Council by unanimous
vote of its membership, approves the recommendations of the Board of Trustees
of the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority of either the sale or lease
of such portion of the property.
   (b)   A referendum required by this section shall be held at any General
Election or City Election or may be held at a special election called for such
purpose. The ballots used in such election shall have printed on them the
substance of the proposed sale or lease or the proposed disposal of such
hospital or real property and the voters shall vote for or against its
approval.
   (c)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the disposal of
personal property of such hospital and clinical facilities which is obsolete,
surplus or unusable and such personal property shall be disposed of in
accordance with a policy established by the board.
   The provisions of this section do not apply to transfers from the city of
Cookeville to the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority for the purposes
of effectuating this act.
   The property and assets that may be transferred by the City of Cookeville to
the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority pursuant to this Act are
limited to working capital, including cash, accounts receivable and future
revenues. The City of Cookeville is authorized to take necessary action to
enable the Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority to:
      (1)   Continue without diminution, retirement benefits through the
Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System for those persons employed at the
Cookeville Regional Medical Center as of the date the Cookeville Regional
Medical Center Authority became operational who are participants in the
Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System;
      (2)   Continue participation in the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement
System or to adopt alternative retirement plans for persons employed at
Cookeville Regional Medical Center after the Cookeville Regional Medical Center
becomes operational.
   Any alternative retirement plan adopted by the Cookeville Regional Medical
Center Authority shall contain provisions permitting employees who are
participants in the Tennessee Consolidated Retirement System to elect to
participate in such alternative retirement plan instead of the Tennessee
Consolidated Retirement System.
   (d)   In the event of the sale, lease or other transfer of the assets,
building and real property constituting Cookeville Regional Medical Center,
such sale, lease or transfer shall also include all of the assets and rights
owned by Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority; provided, such sale,
lease or other transfer transaction shall require the purchaser, lessor or
other transferee to assume all debt for which the Cookeville Regional Medical
Center Authority is obligated. Upon occurrence of sale, lease or other transfer
as described herein, Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority shall cease
to exist as of the date of such sale, lease or other transfer and it shall have
no further rights, powers or obligations.
[As amended by Priv. Acts 2000, ch. 115, §§ 4 and 5]
State of Tennessee
   Private Chapter 67
   House Bill 3867
   By Representative Ryan Williams
   Substituted for: Senate Bill No. 3797
   By Senator Burks
   AN ACT to amend Chapter 223 of the Private Acts of 1961; and any other acts
amendatory thereto, relative to Cookeville.
BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE:
   SECTION 1. Chapter 223 of the Private Acts of 1961; and any other acts
amendatory thereto, is amended by deleting Section 14.05 of Article XIV in its
entirety and substituting instead the following:
      Section 14.05. Conflicts of Interest. Tennessee Code Annotated Sections
12-4-101, 6-54-107 and 6-54-108, as subsequently amended, shall be effective in
Cookeville, Tennessee, the same as if said sections were copied herein
verbatim.
   SECTION 2. The act shall have no effect unless it is approved by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the legislative body of the City of Cookeville. Its
approval or nonapproval shall be proclaimed by the presiding officer of the
City of Cookeville and certified to the secretary of state.
   SECTION 3. For the purpose of approving or rejecting the provisions of this
act, it shall be effective upon becoming a law, the public welfare requiring
it. For all other purposes, it shall become effective as provided in Section 2.
               HOUSE BILL NO. 3867
PASSED:  APRIL 23, 2012
               Beth Harwell
               BETH HARWELL,
               SPEAKER HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
               Ron Ramsey
               RON RAMSEY
               SPEAKER OF THE SENATE
APPROVED this 10th day of May 2012
Bill Haslam
BILL HASLAM, GOVERNOR
PRIVATE AND RELATED ACTS COMPRISING THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF COOKEVILLE,
TENNESSEE
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
1961 223     Basic charter act.
1961 316     Rejected.
1961 317     Rejected.
             Replaced § 2.14, Ordinances; § 6.03, Serial bonds; § 6.05, Bond ordinance; §
             6.06, Title of bond ordinance; § 6.07, Procedure for adoption of bond
1963 74      ordinance; § 6.08, Effective date of bond ordinance; § 6.10, Determinations in
             bond ordinance conclusive; § 6.13, Election required except for certain bonds;
             § 6.15, Property tax levy to retire voted bonds; added § 6.17, Supplementary
             nature of Title VI; and replaced § 14.03, Contracts extended beyond one year.
1967 485     Amended § 2.03, Compensation; § 2.06, Appointment of city manager; § 2.09,
             Vacancies in council; and § 14.03, Contracts extending beyond one year.
1970 276     Authorized acquisition, construction, etc., of public parking facilities. (See
             art. VIA)
1971 202     Rejected.
 
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
1976 258     Amended § 2.02, Qualifications; and replaced § 2.09, Vacancies in council.
1978 244     Amended § 2.15, City legislation.
1979 116     Rejected.
1979 125     Replaced § 4.19, Expenditures, contract amounts, and purchasing
             procedures.
1983 71      Amended § 5.12, Delinquent taxes.
             Replaced § 9.03, Terms of office; amended § 9.04, Successors; removal of
1986 161     members; replaced § 9.05, Nomination of successors by board; and added §
             9.13, Rights of administrator and other officer in board.
1988 187     Replaced § 2.09, Vacancies in council; and § 10.01, Municipal elections.
1988 191     Replaced § 9.03, Terms of office; and § 9.04, Successors; removal of
             members.
1989 8       Replaced § 10.03, Nominations.
1989 86      Added § 9.14, Leasing of hospital facilities.
1991 134     Amended § 10.03, Nominations.
1994 145     Replaced § 10.01, Municipal elections
 
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
YEAR CHAPTER SUBJECT
1995 81      Replaced § 9.01, Board of trustees; § 9.03, Terms of office; and § 9.04,
             Successors; removal of members.
1996 121     Added § 9.15, Sale of hospital facilities.
1996 208     Replaced § 9.14, Leasing of hospital facilities.
             Amended § 9.01, Board of trustees; § 9.02, Operation of facilities by board;
1997 14      § 9.10, Budget; tax levy; § 9.12, Prohibition against doing business with
             hospital; and § 9.14, Leasing of hospital facilities.
1999 49      Adds a related act establishing a Cookeville Regional Medical Center
             Authority and replaces title IX relative to hospitals.
             Amends related Priv. Acts 1999, ch. 49, § 2 relative to powers of medical
             center board of trustees; § 3 relative to number of board members; § 9
2000 115     relative to location and ownership of property; and § 15 relative to
             employees retirement plan and authority over finances and property of medical
             center.
2007 31      Amends Priv. Acts 1999, ch.49, §§ 4 and 6 relative to Cookville Regional
             Medical Center
             Amends §§ 1.05.(q) relative to county workhouse; 2.01. relative to election
             and term of city council; 2.03. relative to Compensation; 2.05. relative to
2007 45      Powers of city council; 2.11. relative to City clerk; 2.12. relative to
             Induction of council into office; 2.15. relative to City legislation; 4.01.
             relative to Fiscal year; 7.01. relative to City court; 7.07. relative to City
             attorney; and deleted art. XII in its entirety.
2011 24      Amends Private Acts 1999, Chapter 49, §§ 4 relative to terms of office of
             Board of Trustees; 13 relative to contracts for services.
2012 67      Amending Chapter 223, Private Acts of 1961 by deleting and replacing Article
             XIV, Section 14.05 relative to conflicts of interest
2016 49      Amending Chapter 49, § 9 of the Private Acts of 1999 relative to the
             Cookeville Regional Medical Center Authority.
            
 
TITLE 1
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION 1
   CHAPTER
      
1.   CITY COUNCIL.
      
2.   ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION.
      
3.   ACCESS AND INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
      
4.   CODE OF ETHICS.
1   Charter references
   See the charter index, the charter itself, and footnote references to the
charter in the front of this code.
   Municipal code references
   Building, plumbing, electrical and gas inspectors:
title 12.
   Fire department:
title 7, chapter 3.
   Utilities:
titles 18 and
19.
   Wastewater treatment:
title 18.
   Zoning:
title 14.
CHAPTER 1
CITY COUNCIL 2
2   Charter reference
   Mayor and council:
art. II.
   Ordinances setting monthly compensation rates are available in the office of
the city recorder.
SECTION
   
1-101.   Time and place of regular meetings.
   
1-102.   Order of business.
   
1-103.   General rules of order.
   
1-104. Rules to govern business before the City Council.
1-101. Time and place of regular meetings.
   The city council shall hold regular monthly meetings on the first and third
Thursday of each month at Cookeville Municipal Building at a time to be
determined by the presiding city council provided, however, if the regular
meeting date falls on a holiday or for other valid reasons, the meeting date
may be changed with adequate public notice.
(Ord. #097-12-33, Jan. 1998)
1-102. Order of business.  
   (1)   Call to order and roll call.
   (2)   Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance.
   (3)   Consider approval of agenda as presented.
   (4)   Appointments, proclamations, presentations or awards.
   (5)   Old business.
   (6)   Consent agenda.
   (7)   New business - public hearings and action items.
   (8)   Citizens request for hearing before City Council.
   (9)   Hearing from officers, councilmen, and city manager.
   (10)   Mayor's comments.
   (11)   Adjournment.
   A special meeting may be called by the city manager at the request of at
least three councilmen and adequate public notice.
(1970 Code, § 1-102, modified) (Amended by Ord. #023-06-17, July 2023)
1-103. General rules of order.
   The rules of order and parliamentary procedure contained in the current
edition of Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised shall govern the transaction
of business by and before the Cookeville City Council at its meetings in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
provisions of the charter or this code.
(1970 Code, § 1-103,modified) (Amended by Ord. #023-06-17, July 2023)
1-104. Rules to govern business before the City Council.  
   The following rules shall apply to business brought before the City Council.
   (1)   The City Council may deliberate or act upon urgent matters not listed
on the agenda if said matter is added to the agenda by a two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the City Council.
   (2)   A time for public comment will be provided before a vote is called for
each agenda item. Individuals wishing to make public comments will be
recognized by the presiding official and will state their full name and specify
if they live inside or outside the City Limits. Individual public comments will
not exceed three (3) minutes.
   (3)   The time allotted for public comments will not exceed thirty (30)
minutes.
   (4)   These rules may be amended or suspended for a specific meeting or
agenda item by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the City Council.
(Ord. #023-06-17, July 2023)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION 1
1   Charter references
   City manager:
art. III.
   Form of government:
art. I, §
1.04.
   Mayor and council:
art. II.
SECTION
   
1-201.   Plan adopted.
   
1-202.   Administrative organization.
   
1-203.   Departments established.
   
1-204.   Department directors; subordinate personnel.
   
1-205.   Supervision and control.
   
1-206.   City manager's responsibility and authority.
   
1-207.   Organization chart of the city.
   
1-208.   Insuring and indemnifying city employees from certain claims and
losses.
1-201. Plan adopted.
   Within the framework established by the charter of the City of Cookeville,
the following plan of administrative organization of the city government is
hereby adopted.
(1970 Code, § 1-201)
1-202. Administrative organization.
   The administrative organization of the city shall consist of the city
manager and the departments under his supervision and control.
(1970 Code, § 1-202)
1-203. Departments established.
   So that the work and affairs of the city may be classified and arranged
conveniently and conducted efficiently, there are hereby established the
following departments: department of general government, finance department,
police department, fire department, planning and codes, gas, water quality
control, department of public works, electric department, department of leisure
services and department of public facilities.
(1970 Code, § 1-203, modified)
1-204. Department directors; subordinate personnel.
   At the head of each department there shall be a director. The city manager
shall be the director of the department of general government. As provided in
the charter, the city manager shall have authority to appoint and remove all
officers and employees of all departments, or the city manager may authorize
directors to appoint and remove subordinates in their respective departments.
(1970 Code, § 1-204)
1-205. Supervision and control.
   Directors shall have the immediate supervision and control of their
respective departments, but shall be subject to the general direction,
supervision, and control of the city manager. It shall be the duty of each
director to see that the work of his department is carried on efficiently and
in accordance with all applicable laws, ordinances, and resolutions of the
council, and directions and orders of the city manager.
(1970 Code, § 1-205)
1-206. City manager's responsibility and authority.
   The city manager shall have the general supervision and control of all
departments, and the proper and efficient administration of the work of all
departments shall be his responsibility. He shall have authority to prescribe
the work of each department not inconsistent with the applicable laws, the
charter, and ordinances and resolutions of the council. He shall have access at
all times to all records and facilities of all departments. He shall have the
power to investigate the work and operations of all departments, and may
require directors to submit to him such reports and records as he deems
necessary for this purpose. It is the intent of this chapter that the city
manager be vested with all the authority over departments under his supervision
and control necessary and convenient to fulfill his responsibility.
(1970 Code, § 1-206)
1-207. Organization chart of the city.
(1970 Code, § 1-207)
1-208. Insuring and indemnifying city employees from certain claims and losses.
   The City of Cookeville shall indemnify its officials, whether elected or
appointed, officers, employees or servants or any member of any board, agency
or commission (whether compensated or not), or any officer, employee or servant
thereof, and the legal representatives, heirs and assigns of such persons, from
any and all claims, losses, damages, costs and expenses arising under state or
federal law unless the act or omission complained of was willful, malicious,
criminal or performed for personal financial gain.
   This provision shall be construed as being cumulative with and not exclusive
of any insurance coverage obtained by the City of Cookeville. Any person
receiving notice of a claim which may be subject to indemnification by the city
shall promptly notify the city manager of the existence of such claim, and will
cooperate in the defense of such claim.
(Ord. #097-12-34, Jan. 1998)
CHAPTER 3
ACCESS AND INSPECTION OF PUBLIC RECORDS 1
1   Charter reference
   Publicity of records:
art. XIV, §
14.04.
SECTION
   
1-301.   Procedures regarding access and inspection of public records.
   
1-302.   Reproduction of records in electronic form.
   
1-303.   Fees for inspection and copying of public records.
1-301. Procedures regarding access and inspection of public records.
   Consistent with the open records laws of the State of Tennessee (Tennessee
Code Annotated, §§ 10-7-501 through 10-7-503), and provisions of
Article XIV, §
14.04 of the Cookeville City Charter, employees of the City of Cookeville shall
provide full access and assistance in a timely and effective manner to persons
who request access to open records. City of Cookeville employees shall at all
times protect the integrity and organization of public records with respect to
the manner in which such records are inspected and copied. All inspections of
copying of records shall be performed by, or under the supervision of a city
employee. City personnel shall prevent excessive disruptions of essential
functions of the city and shall simultaneously seek to provide access to public
records within a reasonable time. Requests for inspection or copying of public
records shall be made in writing on a form provided by the city, which is to
require the name of the person making the request, and on whose behalf the
request is being made, the address and telephone number of the person making
the request, and a description of the public records being requested. Such form
shall be completed by the person requesting the record, and city employees may
demand reasonable identification of any person requesting a record. Hours for
making requests for inspection or copying of records shall be the regular
office hours of the city. Removal of public records from the offices of the
city shall not be permitted. Public records shall not be reproduced when, in
the judgment of the city, such records would be damaged by the reproduction
process. Questions concerning the publicity of a record shall be directed to
the city attorney. If copies of personnel records of any city employee are
requested, it shall be the policy of the city to notify each employee involved,
which documents have been copied, to whom they have been provided and for whom
the inspection was made. (See Tennessee Code Annotated, § 10-7-503).
(Ord. #097-09-23, Sept. 1997)
1-302. Reproduction of records in electronic form.
   The City ofCookeville is not obligated to provide copies of its public
records in a computerized format. The City of Cookeville is not obligated to
manipulate its public records so as to produce the public records in a form
different than the form in which the public records are maintained. The City of
Cookeville may elect, at its discretion, to produce copies of its public
records in computerized form when the City of Cookeville determines that it is
in its best interest to do so. The copying of public records in computerized
format will be done only if the City of Cookeville is assured that no portion
of the proprietary or copyrighted works of others is being duplicated.
(Ord. #097-09-23, Sept. 1997, as amended by Ord. #011-08-15, Sept. 2011)
1-303. Fees for inspection and copying of public records.
Fees for inspection and copying of records of the City of Cookeville shall be
in accordance with T.C.A. Section 8-4-604(a)(1), verbatim and as amended, which
requires the Office of Open Records counsel ("OORC") to establish a schedule of
reasonable charges which may be used as a guideline in establishing charges or
fees, if any, to charge a citizen requesting copies of public records under the
Tennessee Public Records Act.
(Ord. #097-09-23, Sept. 1997, modified, as replaced by Ord. #011-08-15, Sept.
2011)
CHAPTER 4
CODE OF ETHICS 1
1   State statutes dictate many of the ethics provisions that apply to
municipal officials and employees. For provisions relative to the following,
see the Tennessee Code Annotated (T.C.A.) sections indicated:
   Campaign finance: Tennessee Code Annotated, title 2, ch. 10.
   Conflict of interests: Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-107, 108; 12-4-101,
102.
   Conflict of interests disclosure statements: Tennessee Code Annotated, § 8-
50-501 and the following sections.
   Consulting fee prohibition for elected municipal officials: Tennessee Code
Annotated, §§ 2-10-122, 124.
   Crimes involving public officials (bribery, soliciting unlawful
compensation, buying and selling in regard to office): Tennessee Code
Annotated, § 39-16-101 and the following sections.
   Crimes of official misconduct, official oppression, misuse of official
information: Tennessee Code Annotated,§ 39-16-401 and the following sections.
   Ouster law: Tennessee Code Annotated,§ 8-47-101 and the following sections.
   A brief synopsis of each of these laws appears in Appendix of this municipal
code.
SECTION
   
1-401.   Applicability.
   
1-402.   Definition of "personal interest."
   
1-403.   Disclosure of personal interest by official with vote.
   
1-404.   Disclosure of personal interest in non-voting matters.
   
1-405.   Acceptance of gratuities, etc.
   
1-406.   Use of information.
   
1-407.   Use of municipal time, facilities, etc.
   
1-408.   Use of position or authority.
   
1-409.   Outside employment.
   
1-410.   Ethics complaints.
   
1-411.   Violations.
1-401. Applicability.
   This chapter is the code of ethics for personnel of the City of Cookeville.
It applies to all full-time and part-time elected or appointed officials and
employees, whether compensated or not, including those of any separate board,
commission, committee, authority, corporation, or other instrumentality
appointed or created by the City of Cookeville
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-402. Definition of personal interest.
   (1)   For purposes of this section, “personal interest” means:
      (a)   Any financial, ownership, or employment interest in the subject of
a vote by any board not otherwise regulated by state statutes on conflicts of
interests; or
      (b)   Any financial, ownership, or employment interest in a matter to be
regulated or supervised; or
      (c)   Any such financial, ownership, or employment interest of the
official's or employee's spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, siblings,
children, or stepchildren.
   (2)   The words "employment interest" include a situation in which an
official or employee or a designated family member is negotiating possible
employment with a person or organization that is the subject of the vote or
that is to be regulated or supervised.
   (3)   In any situation in which a personal interest is also a conflict of
interest under state law, the provisions of the state law take precedence over
the provisions of this chapter
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-403. Disclosure of personal interest by official with vote.
   An official with the responsibility to vote on a measure shall disclose
during the meeting at which the vote takes place before the vote so it appears
in the minutes, any personal interest that affects or that would lead a
reasonable person to infer that it affects the official's vote on the measure.
In addition, the official may recuse himself from voting on the measure
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-404. Disclosure of personal interest in nonvoting matters.
   An official or employee who must exercise discretion relative to any matter,
other than casting a vote, and who has a personal interest in the matter that
affects or that would lead a reasonable person to infer that it affects the
exercise of the discretion, shall disclose, before the exercise of the
discretion, when possible, the interest on a form provided by and filed with
the city clerk. In addition, the official or employee may, to the extent
allowed by law, charter, ordinance, or policy, recuse himself from the exercise
of discretion in the matter
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-405. Acceptance of gratuities, etc.
   An official or employee may not accept, directly or indirectly, any money,
gift, gratuity, or other consideration or favor of any kind from anyone other
than the City of Cookeville:
   (1)   For the performance of an act, or refraining from performance of an
act, that he would be expected to perform, or refrain from performing, in the
regular course of his duties; or
   (2)   That might reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to influence his
action, or reward him for past action, in executing municipal business
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-406. Use of information.
   (1)   An official or employee may not disclose any information obtained in
his official capacity or position of employment that is made confidential under
state or federal law except as authorized by law.
   (2)   An official or employee may not use or disclose information obtained
in his official capacity or position of employment with the intent to result in
financial gain for himself or any other person or entity
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-407. Use of municipal time, facilities, etc.
   (1)   An official or employee may not use or authorize the use of municipal
time, facilities, equipment, or supplies for private gain or advantage to
himself.
   (2)   An official or employee may not use or authorize the use of municipal
time, facilities, equipment, or supplies for private gain or advantage to any
private person or entity, except as authorized by legitimate contract or lease
that is determined by the governing body to be in the best interests of the
City of Cookeville
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-408. Use of position or authority.
   (1)   An official or employee may not make or attempt to make private
purchases, for cash or otherwise, in the name of the City of Cookeville.
   (2)   An official or employee may not use or attempt to use his position to
secure any privilege or exemption for himself or others that is not authorized
by the charter, general law, or ordinance or policy of the City of Cookeville
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-409. Outside employment.
   An official or employee may not accept or continue any outside employment if
the work unreasonably inhibits the performance of any affirmative duty of the
municipal position or conflicts with any provision of the City of Cookeville's
charter or any ordinance or policy
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-410. Ethics complaints.
   (1)   The city attorney is designated as the ethics officer of the City of
Cookeville. Upon the written request of an official or employee potentially
affected by a provision of this chapter, the city attorney may render an oral
or written advisory ethics opinion based upon this chapter and other applicable
law.
   (2)   (a) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the city attorney
shall investigate any credible complaint against an appointed official or
employee charging any violation of this chapter, or may undertake an
investigation on his own initiative when he acquires information indicating a
possible violation and make recommendations for action to end or seek
retribution for any activity that, in the attorney's judgment, constitutes a
violation of this code of ethics.
      (b)   The city attorney may request that the city council hire another
attorney, individual, or entity to act as ethics officer when he has or will
have a conflict of interests in a particular matter.
      (c)   When a complaint of a violation of any provision of this chapter is
lodged against a member of the city council, the city council shall either
determine that the complaint has merit, determine that the complaint does not
have merit, or determine that the complaint has sufficient merit to warrant
further investigation. If the governing body determines that a complaint
warrants further investigation, it shall authorize an investigation by the city
attorney or another individual or entity chosen by the city council.
   (3)   The interpretation that a reasonable person in the circumstances would
apply shall be used in interpreting and enforcing this code of ethics.
   (4)   When a violation of this code of ethics also constitutes a violation
of a personnel policy, rule, or regulation or a civil service policy, rule, or
regulation, the violation shall be dealt with as a violation of the personnel
or civil service provisions rather than as a violation of this code of ethics
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
1-411. Violations.
   An elected official or appointed member of a separate board, commission,
committee, authority, corporation, or other instrumentality of the City of
Cookeville, who violates any provision of this chapter, is subject to
punishment as provided by the City of Cookeville's charter or other applicable
law, and in addition is subject to censure by the city council. An appointed
official or an employee who violates any provision of this chapter is subject
to disciplinary action
(as added by Ord. #007-04-10, May 2007)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, ETC.
[RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE]
TITLE 3
MUNICIPAL COURT
   CHAPTER
      
1.   CITY COURT.
CHAPTER 1
CITY COURT 1
1   Charter reference
   City judge and city court:
art. VII.
SECTION
   
3-101.   City judge.
   
3-102.   Fines and costs, etc.
   
3-103.   Enforcement of fines and costs.
3-101. City judge.
   The city court shall be presided over by a city judge appointed by the city
council to serve on a part time basis.
(1970 Code, § 1-501)
3-102. Fines and costs, etc.
   The city judge may impose any lawful fine or forfeiture for violation of any
corporate law or ordinance, in compliance with provisions of Tennessee Code
Annotated, § 6-54-308. In all cases heard or determined by him, he shall charge
appropriate court costs. Costs in favor of any person paid a fixed salary by
the city shall belong to the city and shall be paid into its treasury.
(1970 Code, § 1-502)
3-103. Enforcement of fines and costs.
   (1) Manner of collection. Unless discharged by payment, a fine, fines,
costs, penalties and litigation taxes due may be collected in the same manner
as a judgment in a civil action, but shall not be deemed part of the penalty,
and no person shall be imprisoned for being in default solely of payment of
costs and/or litigation taxes. The following shall be the allocation formula
for moneys paid into court: the first moneys paid in any case shall first be
credited toward payment of litigation taxes and once litigation taxes have been
paid, the next moneys shall be credited toward payment of costs; then
additional moneys shall be credited toward payment of the fine.
   Methods of collection. The city attorney or his designee, may, in such
person’s discretion, and shall, upon order of the court, institute proceedings
to collect the debt as a civil judgment. In addition to all other remedies for
collection amounts owed to the city, the city is authorized to employ the
service of a collection agency to collect amounts owed to the city court. The
contract between the municipality and the collection agency must be in writing.
The written contract shall include a provision of specifying whether the agency
may institute an action to collect fines and costs in a judicial proceeding.
   (2)   The city judge shall have the power and authority to enforce the
collection of all fines, costs, and forfeitures imposed by him.
   (3)   Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated 40-24-105(e), the city is
authorized to employ the services of a collection agency to collect amounts
owed to the city court, where the fines and costs have not been collected
within sixty (60) days after they were due. The collection agency may be paid
an amount not exceeding forty percent (40%) of the sums collected as
consideration for collecting the fines and costs. All collection agency fees
shall not be deemed part of any penalty, but shall be deemed to be additional
court costs.
   (4)   The city judge shall have the authority to declare tickets (including
parking tickets) and warrants uncollectible and purge the city court records
thereof after two (2) years from the date of violation.
(Ord. #098-06-18, July 1998, modified, as amended by Ord. #O19-06- 08, July
2019)
TITLE 4
MUNICIPAL PERSONNEL
   CHAPTER
      
1.   SOCIAL SECURITY FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
      
2.   VACATIONS, SICK LEAVE, HOLIDAYS, ETC.
      
3.   PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL.
      
4.   OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM.
CHAPTER 1
SOCIAL SECURITY FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION
   
4-101.   Policy and purpose as to coverage.
   
4-102.   Necessary agreements to be executed.
   
4-103.   Withholdings from salaries or wages.
   
4-104.   Appropriations for employer's contributions.
   
4-105.   Records and reports to be made.
   
4-106.   Personnel under other retirement plans excluded.
   
4-107.   Coverage extended to personnel compensated on a fee basis.
4-101. Policy and purpose as to coverage.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee, to extend, at the earliest date, to the employees and
officials of the city, not excluded by law or this chapter, and whether
employed in connection with a governmental or proprietary function, the
benefits of the system of federal old age and survivors insurance. In pursuance
of said policy, and for that purpose, the city shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(1970 Code, § 1-701)
4-102. Necessary agreements to be executed.
   The city manager is hereby authorized and directed to execute all the
necessary agreements and amendments thereto with the state executive director
of old age insurance, as agent or agency, to secure coverage of employees and
officials as provided in the preceding section.
(1970 Code, § 1-702)
4-103. Withholdings from salaries or wages.
   Withholdings from the salaries or wages of employees and officials for the
purpose provided in the first section of this chapter are hereby authorized to
be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state
or federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state or federal
agency designated by said laws or regulations.
(1970 Code, § 1-703)
4-104. Appropriations for employer's contributions.
   There shall be appropriated from available funds such amounts at such times
as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations for
employer's contributions, and the same shall be paid over to the state or
federal agency designated by said laws or regulations.
(1970 Code, § 1-704)
4-105. Records and reports to be made.
   The city shall keep such records and make such reports as may be required by
applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
(1970 Code, § 1-705)
4-106. Personnel under other retirement plans excluded.
   There is hereby excluded from this chapter any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or any employee or official now covered
or authorized to be covered by any ordinance creating any retirement system for
any employee or official of the city.
(1970 Code, § 1-706)
4-107. Coverage extended to personnel compensated on a fee basis.
   There is hereby excluded from this chapter any authority to make any
agreement with respect to any position or employee or official not authorized
to be covered by applicable state or federal laws or regulations, and the city
manager is hereby authorized and directed to amend the Social Security
Agreement of October 24, 1951, so as to extend coverage in the System of
Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance to include employees and officials
rendering services in fee based positions effective October 1, 1960, and all
other employees and officials except those excluded above, effective January 1,
1951.
(1970 Code, § 1-707)
CHAPTER 2
VACATIONS, SICK LEAVE, HOLIDAYS, ETC.
SECTION
   
4-201.   Personnel director to develop employee benefits program.
4-201. Personnel director to develop employee benefits program.
   The personnel director shall develop a benefits program for the employees of
the City of Cookeville and upon approval by the city council the program shall
become part of the city's official personnel policies and procedures manual.
Such program and any and all amendments shall be approved by the city council
by resolution prior to implementation. No benefits provided to employees prior
to the adoption of this program shall be reduced nor shall any employee's
accrued benefits be reduced as a result of the implementation of this benefit
program.
(1970 Code, § 1-810)
CHAPTER 3
PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL
SECTION
   
4-301.   Personnel director shall develop a personnel policies and procedures
manual.
   
4-302.   Personnel director shall maintain official copy of the city's
personnel policies and procedures manual.
   
4-303.   Implementation and amendment of personnel policies and procedures.
4-301. Personnel director shall develop a personnel policies and procedures
manual.
   The personnel director shall develop and maintain a personnel manual
detailing the policies and procedures to be used for implementing and
administering the city's personnel program. The purpose of the personnel
policies and procedures is to foster a positive employment environment of
mutual benefit and protection to both the employee and the city while
encouraging employee and public confidence in the organization, and to adopt
and administer a merit system of personnel management consistent with the
policies of the city.
(1970 Code, § 1-901)
4-302. Personnel director shall maintain official copy of the city's personnel
policies and procedures manual.
   The personnel director shall be responsible for maintaining the official
copy of the city's personnel policies and procedures manual. The personnel
director shall accurately record all changes and amendments to the manual. The
manual shall be available for use and inspection by all employees during
regular office hours.
(1970 Code, § 1-902)
4-303. Implementation and amendment of personnel policies and procedures.
   The city council shall by resolution approve the personnel policies and
procedures manual, and any and all amendments and/or changes made thereto.
(1970 Code, § 1-903)
CHAPTER 4
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
SECTION
   
4-401.   Title.
   
4-402.   Purpose.
   
4-403.   Coverage.
   
4-404.   Standards authorized.
   
4-405.   Variances from standards authorized.
   
4-406.   Administration.
   
4-407.   Funding the program.
   
4-408.   Injuries.
4-401. Title.
   This section shall be known as “The Occupational Safety and Health Program
Plan” for the employees of the City of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 1-1101, as replaced by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by
Ord. #O13-02-04, February 2013)
4-402. Purpose.
   The City of Cookeville, in electing to update the established Program Plan
will maintain an effective and comprehensive Occupational Safety and Health
Program Plan for its employees and shall:
   (1)   Provide a safe and healthful place and condition of employment that
includes:
      (a)   Top management commitment and employee involvement;
      (b)   Continually analyze the worksite to identify all hazards and
potential hazards;
      (c)   Develop and maintain methods for preventing or controlling the
existing or potential hazards; and
      (d)   Train managers, supervisors, and employees to understand and deal
with worksite hazards.
   (2)   Acquire, maintain and require the use of safety equipment, personal
protective equipment and devices reasonably necessary to protect employees.
   (3)   Record, keep, preserve, and make available to the Commissioner of
Labor and Workforce Development or persons within the Department of Labor and
Workforce Development to whom such responsibilities have been delegated,
adequate records of all occupational accidents and illnesses and personal
injuries for proper evaluation and necessary corrective action as required.
   (4)   Consult with the Commissioner of Labor and Workforce Development with
regard to the adequacy of the form and content of records.
   (5)   Consult with the Commissioner of Labor and Workforce Development, as
appropriate, regarding safety and health problems which are considered to be
unusual or peculiar and are such that they cannot be achieved under a standard
promulgated by the state.
   (6)   Provide reasonable opportunity for the participation of employees in
the effectuation of the objectives of this Program Plan, including the
opportunity to make anonymous complaints concerning conditions or practices
injurious to employee safety and health.
   (7)   Provide for education and training of personnel for the fair and
efficient administration of occupational safety the health standards, and
provide for education and notification of all employees of the existence of
this Program Plan.
(1970 Code, § 1-1102, as replaced by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by
Ord. #O13-02-04, February 2013)
4-403. Coverage.
   The provisions of the Occupational Safety and Health Program Plan for the
employees of the City of Cookeville shall apply to all employees of each
administrative department of the City of Cookeville, whether part-time or full-
time, seasonal or permanent.
(1970 Code, § 1-1103, as replaced by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by
Ord. #O13-02-04, February 2013)
4-404. Standards authorized.
   The Occupational Safety and Health standards adopted by the City of
Cookeville are the same as, but not limited to, the State of Tennessee
Occupational Safety and Health Standards promulgated, or which may be
promulgated, in accordance with Section 6 of the Tennessee Occupational Safety
and Health Act of 1972 (Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 50, Chapter 3). (1970
Code, § 1-1104, as replaced by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by Ord.
#O13-02-04, February 2013)
4-405. Variances from standards authorized.
   The City of Cookeville may, upon written application of the Commissioner of
Labor and Workforce Development of the State of Tennessee, request an order
granting a temporary variance from any approved standards. Applications for
variances shall be in accordance with Rules of Tennessee Department of Labor
and Workforce Development Occupational Safety and Health, Variances from
Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Chapter 0800-01-02, as authorized by
Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 50. Prior to requesting such temporary
variance, the City of Cookeville will notify or serve notice to employees,
their designated representatives, or interested parties and present them with
an opportunity for a hearing. The posting of notice on the main bulletin board
as designated by the City of Cookeville shall be deemed sufficient notice to
employees.
(1970 Code, § 1-1105, as replaced by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by
Ord. #O13-02-04, February 2013)
4-406. Administration.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the Human Resources Director is designated
as the Safety Director of Occupational Safety and Health to perform duties and
to exercise powers assigned to plan, develop, and administer this Program Plan.
The Director shall develop a plan of operation for the Program Plan in
accordance with Rules of Tennessee Department of Labor and Workforce
Development Occupational Safety and Health, Safety and Health Provisions for
the Public Sector, Chapter 0800-01-05, as authorized by Tennessee Code
Annotated, Title 50.
(as added by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by Ord. #O13-02-04,
February 2013)
4-407. Funding the program.
   Sufficient funds for administering and staffing the Program Plan pursuant to
this chapter shall be made available as authorized by the City Manager.
(as added by Ord. #003-07-18, July 2003, as amended by Ord. #O13-02-04,
February 2013)
4-408. Injuries. 
   The Safety Director shall, in the eventuality that there is a fatality or an
accident resulting in the hospitalization of three (3) or more employees,
insure that the Commissioner of Labor and Workforce Development receives
notification of the occurrence within eight (8) hours. All work-related
inpatient hospitalizations, amputations, and loss of an eye must be reported to
TOSHA within twenty-four (24) hours.
(as added by Ord. #015-09-24, September 2015)
TITLE 5
MUNICIPAL FINANCE AND TAXATION 1
1   Charter references
   Borrowing and bonds:
art. VI.
   Fiscal administration:
art. IV.
   Taxation: art.
V.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES.
      
2.   REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.
      
3.   PRIVILEGE TAXES.
      
4.   WHOLESALE BEER TAX.
      
5.   MISCELLANEOUS.
      
6.   CREDIT OR DEBIT CARD PAYMENTS.
      
7.    HOTEL/MOTEL TAX.
      
CHAPTER 1
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
SECTION
   
5-101.   Purchasing.
   
5-102.   Purchasing procedures.
5-101. Purchasing.
   All purchasing and expenditures by the City of Cookeville, Tennessee shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of the Municipal Purchasing Law of
1983, as amended (Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-56-301, et seq.), except that
the threshold over which public advertisement and sealed competitive bids or
proposals are required for purchases and expenditures shall be twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000) as provided in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 12-3-
1212. In accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated, § 12-3-1212, at least three
written quotations are required when possible for purchases costing less than
twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) but more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000). Purchases of like items must be aggregated for purposes of the bid
threshold.
(Ord. #096-10-23, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #003-03-05, March 2003, Ord.
#010-10-12, Nov. 2010, and Ord. #O22-11-28, Dec. 2022)
5-102. Purchasing procedures.
   The purchasing agent shall establish procedures for purchasing, leasing,
contracting, and other expenditures to insure compliance with state law. The
procedures may be revised or changed by the city manager as needed.
(1970 Code, § 1-302)
CHAPTER 2
REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES 1
1   Charter reference
   Taxation:
art. V.
SECTION
   
5-201.   When due and payable.
   
5-202.   When delinquent--penalty and interest.
   
5-203.   Setting tax levy date.
5-201. When due and payable. 2
   Taxes levied by the city against real and/or personal property shall become
due and payable annually on the first Monday of October of the year for which
levied.
(1970 Code, § 6-101)
2   State law references
   Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 67-1-701, 67-1-702 and 67-1-801, read together,
permit a municipality to collect its own property taxes if its charter
authorizes it to do so, or to turn over the collection of its property taxes to
the county trustee. Apparently, under those same provisions, if a municipality
collects its own property taxes, tax due and delinquency dates are as
prescribed by the charter; if the county trustee collects them, the tax due
date is the first Monday in October, and the delinquency date is the following
March 1.
5-202. When delinquent--penalty and interest. 3
   All real and/or personal property taxes shall become delinquent on and after
the first day of March next after they become due and payable and shall
thereupon be subject to such penalty and interest as is authorized and
prescribed by law.
   Delinquent taxes shall be subject to a penalty for late payment in the
amount of (1/2 of 1%) one-half of one percent for each month or portion thereof
until such time as delinquent taxes are paid.
   A municipality has the option of collecting delinquent property taxes any
one of three ways:
   (1)   Under the provisions of its charter for the collection of delinquent
property taxes.
   (2)   Under Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-55-201--6-55-206.
   (3)   By the county trustee under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 67-5-2005.
   Delinquent taxes shall accrue interest at the rate of (1%) one percent per
month for each month or portion thereof until such time as delinquent taxes are
paid. 1  
(1970 Code, § 6-102)
3   Charter and state law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, § 67-5-2010(b) provides that if the county trustee
collects the municipality's property taxes, a penalty of 1/2 of 1% and interest
of 1% shall be added on the first day of March, following the tax due date and
on the first day of each succeeding month.
1   Charter and state law references
5-203. Setting tax levy date.
   The rate at which taxes are levied by the city against real and/or personal
property shall be established on or before the 22nd day of August of each year.
(1970 Code, § 6-103)
CHAPTER 3
PRIVILEGE TAXES 1
1   Charter reference:
art. V.
SECTION
   
5-301.   Taxes enacted, etc.
   
5-302.   License required.
5-301. Taxes enacted, etc.
The taxes provided for in Public Acts 1971, chapter 387 and as amended by
chapter 530 of the Public Acts of 2009 and amended by chapter 313 of the Public
Acts of 2013, known as the “Uniformity and Small Business Relief Act of 2013,”
are hereby enacted, ordained, and levied on the businesses, business
activities, vocations, or occupations carried on in Cookeville, Tennessee, at
the rates and in the manner prescribed by the said act and as subsequently
amended.
(1970 Code, § 6-301, as replaced by Ord. #009-11-20, Dec. 2009, as replaced by
Ord. #013-12-21, Jan. 2014)
5-302. License required.
   No person shall exercise any such business within the city without a current
effective business license, which shall be issued by the city clerk's office to
each applicant therefore upon the applicant's compliance with all regulatory
provisions in this code and payment of the appropriate licensing fee.
(1970 Code, § 6-302, modified, as replaced by Ord. #009-11-20, Dec. 2009)
CHAPTER 4
WHOLESALE BEER TAX
SECTION
   
5-401.   To be collected.
5-401. To be collected.
   The director of finance is hereby directed to take appropriate action to
assure payment to the city of the wholesale beer tax levied by the "Wholesale
Beer Tax Act," as set out in Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 6. 1  
(1970 Code, § 6-401)
1   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 6 provides for a tax of 17% on
the sale of beer at wholesale. Every wholesaler is required to remit to each
municipality the amount of the net tax on beer wholesale sales to retailers and
other persons within the corporate limits of the municipality.
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS 1
1   Charter reference:
art. IV.
SECTION
   
5-501.   Official depositories for city funds.
   
5-502.   Fiscal year.
5-501. Official depositories for city funds.
   All financial institutions located within the corporate limits of the City
of Cookeville whose deposits are insured through the Bank Collateral Pool
administered by the State of Tennessee Treasury Department or who place
governmental securities (at market value) in escrow in amounts sufficient to
secure by at least 105% or more the municipal cash on deposit at their
institution are hereby designated as official depositories for City of
Cookeville. Funds may also be invested in the State of Tennessee Local
Government Investment Pool.
   The finance director, with the approval of the city manager, is hereby
authorized to enter into depository contracts for checking account services
with authorized financial institutions containing such provisions as deemed
necessary in order to accomplish the purpose for which such deposits are made.
   Contracts may be terminated by the city or the depository upon sixty (60)
days written notice. Certificates of deposit shall be secured by the submission
of telephone bids from all official depositories. Bids shall be awarded to the
financial institution which provides the highest dollar yield.
(Ord. #099-01-01, Feb. 1999)
5-502. Fiscal year.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1st and end on the following
June 30th.
(1970 Code, § 6-502)
CHAPTER 6
CREDIT OR DEBIT CARD PAYMENTS
SECTION
   
5-601.   Acceptance of credit or debit card payments.
   
5-602.   Convenience fee waived.
5-601. Acceptance of credit or debit card payments.
   The City of Cookeville may accept credit or debit cards from consumers for
the payment of taxes, goods or services provided by the City of Cookeville. A
convenience fee of 2.5% of the entire amount paid by credit card will be
assessed to the consumer.
(as added by Ord. #004-12-24, Jan. 2005)
5-602. Convenience fee waived.
   The city manager may establish a convenience fee exempt maximum charge
limit. The convenience fee will be waived for the entire amount paid by credit
card that does not exceed the maximum charge limit as established by the city
manager
(as added by Ord. #004-12-24, Jan. 2005)
CHAPTER 7
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX
SECTION
   
5-701.   Short title.
   
5-702.   Definitions.
   
5-703.   City business license required.
   
5-704.   Levy of tax authorized.
   
5-705.   Disposition of tax.
   
5-706.   Collection and refund.
   
5-707.   Remittance of tax.
   
5-708.   Monthly tax return - annual audit.
   
5-709.   No advertising of rebates.
   
5-710.    Delinquent taxes - interest and penalty.
   
5-711.   Records - inspection.
   
5-712.   Administration and enforcement.
   
5-713.   Deposit of funds.
5-701.  Short title.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Cookeville Hotel/Motel Tax
Ordinance.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-702.  Definitions. 
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   (1)   Consideration means the consideration charged, whether or not
received, for the occupancy in a hotel valued in money whether to be received
in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits,
property and services of any kind or nature without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever; provided, however, nothing in this definition shall be construed to
imply that consideration is charged when the space provided to the person is
complimentary from the operator and no consideration is charged to or received
from any person.
   (2)   Hotel means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is
occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, motel, inn, cabin, short
term rental property as defined in the Cookeville Zoning Code Section 202,
short-term rental unit as defined in Tennessee Code Annotated, title 67,
chapter 4, or any place in which rooms, lodgings, or accommodations are
furnished to transients for a consideration.
   (3)   Occupancy means the use or possession, or the right to use or
possession, or any room, lodgings, or accommodations in any hotel.
   (4)   Operator means the person operating the hotel whether as owner,
lessee, or otherwise.
   (5)   Person means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate,
governmental unit other than the United States or any of its agencies, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.
   (6)   Remit means to file and pay either in person or by mail/postmark.
   (7)   Transient means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations in a hotel for a period of
less than 30 continuous days.
   (8)   A short-term rental unit marketplace means a business that provides a
platform through which a third party offers to rent a short-term rental unit.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019, as amended by Ord.
#O21-01-01, Jan. 2021, eff. March 1, 2021)
5-703. City business license required. 
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage, operate or cause to be conducted,
kept, managed or operated, either as owner, lessor, agent or attorney, any
hotel in the city without having first obtained a valid and current city
business license to do so.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-704. Levy of tax authorized. 
   The Council of the City of Cookeville does hereby levy a privilege tax upon
the privilege of occupancy in any hotel of each transient in the amount of
three percent (3%) of the consideration charged by the operator. Such tax is a
privilege tax upon the transient occupying such room and is to be collected as
provided in this chapter.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-705. Disposition of tax. 
   The proceeds received by the City of Cookeville shall be designated and used
solely to promote tourism and economic development. In the initial year, the
proceeds shall be allocated to the general fund and thereafter, the proceeds
may be distributed as the Council of the City of Cookeville by ordinance may
direct.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-706. Collection and refund. 
   (1)   Such tax shall be added by the operator to each invoice prepared by
the operator for the occupancy of the hotel and given directly or transmitted
to the transient. Such tax shall be collected by such operator from the
transient and remitted to the city, or if the occupancy was secured through a
short-term rental unit marketplace, remitted to the State of Tennessee pursuant
to Tennessee Code Annotated, title 67, chapter 4, part 15.
   (2)   When a person has maintained occupancy for 30 continuous days, the
person shall receive from the operator a refund or credit for the tax
previously collected from or charged to said person, and the operator shall
receive credit, in the form of a deduction on the monthly tax return, for the
amount of the tax if previously remitted to the city. (as added by Ord. #O19-
07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019, as amended by Ord. #O21-01-01, Jan. 2021,
eff. March 1, 2021)
5-707. Remittance of tax.  
   (1)   The tax hereby levied shall be remitted by all operators who lease,
rent or charge for any rooms, lodgings, or accommodations in hotels within the
city to the city clerk, such tax to be remitted not later than the 20th day of
each month for the preceding month. The operator is hereby required to collect
the tax from the transient at the time of the presentation of the invoice for
such occupancy whether prior to occupancy or after occupancy as may be custom
of the operator, and if credit is granted by the operator to the transient,
then the obligation to the City for the tax shall be that of the operator.
   (2)   For the purpose of compensating the operator for remitting the tax
levied by this chapter, the operator shall be allowed to deduct two percent
(2%) of the amount of the tax due and remitted to the city clerk in the form of
a deduction in submitting the report and paying the amount due by such
operator, provided the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019, as amended by Ord.
#O21-01-01, Jan. 2021, eff. March 1, 2021)
5-708. Monthly tax return - annual audit. 
   The city clerk shall be responsible for the collection of such tax. A
monthly tax return under oath shall be filed with the city clerk by the
operator with such number of copies thereof as the city clerk may reasonably
require for the collection of such tax. The return of the operator shall
include such facts and information as may be deemed reasonable for the
verification of the tax due. The form of such return shall be developed by the
city clerk. The city clerk shall have the authority and right to audit and
inspect records of each operator in the city. (as added by Ord. #O19-07-10,
Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019, as  amended  by Ord. #O21-01-01, Jan. 2021, eff.
March 1, 2021)
5-709. No advertising of rebates. 
   No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner whether
directly or indirectly that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or
absorbed by the operator or that it will not be added to the rent, or that if
added, any part will be refunded.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-710. Delinquent taxes - interest and penalty. 
   Taxes collected by an operator which are not remitted to the city clerk on
or before the due dates are delinquent. An operator shall be liable for
interest on such delinquent taxes from the due date at the rate of twelve
percent (12%) per annum and is liable for an additional penalty of one percent
(1%) for each month or fraction thereof such taxes are delinquent. Such
interest and penalty shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
remitted. Each occurrence of willful refusal of an operator to collect or remit
the tax or willful refusal of a transient to pay the tax imposed is unlawful
and shall be punishable by a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50) per day per
offense.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-711. Records - inspection. 
   It is the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to
the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a period
of three years all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax as he may have been liable for the collection of the payment to the city,
which records the city clerk shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-712. Administration and enforcement. 
   The city clerk in administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter
shall have as additional powers, those powers and duties with respect to
collecting taxes as provided in Tennessee Code Annotated title 67 or otherwise
by law for the county clerks.
   (1)   Upon any claim of illegal assessment and collection, the taxpayer has
the remedies provided in Tennessee Code Annotated, title 67, chapter 23, it
being the intent of this chapter that the provision of law which apply to the
recovery of state taxes illegally assessed and collected shall also apply to
the tax levied under the authority of this chapter. The city clerk shall also
possess those powers and duties as provided in Tennessee Code Annotated,
section 67-1-707, for the county clerks with respect to the adjustment and
refunds of such tax.
   (2)   With respect to the adjustment and settlement with taxpayers all
errors of taxes collected by him under authority of this chapter shall be
refunded by the city. The city clerk shall have the authority to direct the
refunding of same. Notice of any tax paid under protest shall be given the city
clerk and any suit brought for recovery of tax paid under protest shall name
the city clerk.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
5-713. Deposit of funds. 
   The city clerk is hereby charged with the duty of collection of the tax
herein authorized and shall place the proceeds of such tax in accounts within
the various funds as required under section
5-705.
(as added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, eff. Sept. 1, 2019)
TITLE 6
LAW ENFORCEMENT
   CHAPTER
      
1.   POLICE AND ARREST.
CHAPTER 1
POLICE AND ARREST 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Traffic citations, etc.:
title 15, chapter 7.
SECTION
   
6-101.   Police chief responsible for preservation of law and order.
   
6-102.   Police officers subject to chief's orders.
   
6-103.   Police officers to preserve law and order.
   
6-104.   Police officers to wear uniforms and be armed.
   
6-105.   When police officers are to make arrests.
   
6-106.   Police officer's authority to require assistance.
   
6-107.   Disposition of persons arrested.
   
6-108.   Police department records.
   
6-109.   Authority of police department officers.
6-101. Police chief responsible for the preservation of law and order.
   The preservation of law and order within the corporate limits of the city
shall be entrusted to the chief of police, who shall be appointed by the city
manager.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-102. Police officers subject to chief's orders.
   Police officers below the rank of chief shall obey and comply with such
lawful orders, administrative rules and regulations as the police chief may
officially issue.
(1970 Code, § 1-401, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-103. Police officers to preserve law and order.
   Police officers shall assist the police chief with the preservation of law
and order within the city. They shall patrol the city, investigate crimes and
take appropriate enforcement or preventive actions as may be necessary to
ensure the peace and safety of the city. Police officers shall assist the city
court during judicial proceedings and shall serve any legal process issued by
the city court.
(1970 Code, § 1-402, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-104. Police officers to wear uniforms and be armed.
   Police officers shall wear such uniform and badge as the police chief shall
authorize and shall carry, at a minimum, a badge, a service pistol and
handcuffs at all times while on duty. Officers may also be armed with such
additional weapons as authorized by the chief of police. Officers may wear
plain clothes when expressly directed or authorized by the chief of police.
(1970 Code, § 1-403, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-105. When police officers are to make arrests.
   Unless otherwise authorized or directed in this code or other applicable
law, an arrest of a person may be made by a police officer in the following
situations:
   (1)   When the officer is in possession of a warrant for the arrest of the
person.
   (2)   When an offense is committed or a breach of the peace is threatened in
the officer's presence by the person.
   (3)   When a felony has in fact been committed and the officer has probable
cause to believe the person has committed it.
(1970 Code, § 1-404, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-106. Police officer's authority to require assistance.
   It shall be unlawful for any capable adult person to willfully refuse to aid
a police officer in making a lawful arrest when such assistance is requested by
the officer and is reasonably necessary to affect the arrest.
(1970 Code, § 1-405, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-107. Disposition of persons arrested.
   Unless otherwise authorized by law, any person that is arrested for an
offense shall be brought before a magistrate or be allowed to post bond.
(1970 Code, § 1-406, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-108. Police department records.
   The police department shall keep a comprehensive and detailed daily record
in accordance with the provisions of the Tennessee Code Annotated and the
recommendations of the University of Tennessee's Municipal Technical Advisory
Service. Departmental records will show:
   (1)   All known or reported offenses committed within the corporate limits;
   (2)   All arrests made by police officers; and
   (3)   All other official police activities.
(1970 Code, § 1-407, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
6-109. Authority of police department officers.
   Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by the
chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or
signal; provided that in order to expedite traffic movement, or to safeguard
pedestrians, or in the event of an emergency officers of the police department
may direct vehicles and pedestrians as conditions may require.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer so vested by law with said authority.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1970 Code, § 1-408, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
TITLE 7
FIRE PROTECTION AND FIREWORKS 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Building, utility and housing codes:
title 12.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   FIRE DISTRICT.
      
2.   FIRE CODE.
      
3.   FIRE DEPARTMENT.
      
4.   FIRE SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
      
5.   FIREWORKS.
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DISTRICT
SECTION
   
7-101.   Fire limits described.
7-101. Fire limits described.
   The corporate fire limits shall be and include all that area zoned as the
city limits of the city. 2
(1970 Code, § 7-101, modified)
2   Municipal code reference
   Zoning:
title 14.
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE  1
SECTION
   
7-201.   Fire code adopted.
   
7-202.   Key lock box system
   
7-203.   Penalties for failure to comply with key lock box system code.
 
Notes
  1   Municipal code reference
1    Building, utility and housing codes:
  title 12.
7-201. Fire code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-506, and for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, the
International Fire Prevention Code, 2  2018 edition, as prepared and adopted by
the International Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference and included as
a part of this code. Pursuant to the requirement of Tennessee Code Annotated, §
6-54-502, one (1) copy of the fire code has been filed with the city clerk and
is available for public use and inspection. Said fire code is adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and shall be controlling
within the corporate limits. (1970 Code, § 7-201, as amended by Ord. #098-02-
04, March 1998, and Ord. #099-05-09, June 1999, and replaced by Ord. #005-11-
22, Nov. 2005, Ord. #09-02-01, Feb. 2009, and Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as
amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
 
Notes
2    Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
  International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
7-202. Key lock box system.
   (1)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location required by the fire chief:
      (a)   All commercial or industrial structures;
      (b)   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units;
      (c)   Governmental structures, medical facilities, and nursing care/
retirement facilities;
      (d)   Multi-occupancies located within the same building;
      (e)   Multi-tenant commercial within the same structure but with
different address;
      (f)   Occupancies that store or use reportable hazardous materials.
   (2)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have
the key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of occupancy
permit. All structures in existence shall confirm with this section when a
change in ownership or occupancy occurs.
   (3)   The fire chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city and shall have the authority to require all
structures to use the designated system.
   (4)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (5)   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the installation and use of the lock box system, including the right to
review the plans of all structures subject to this section.
   (6)   Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
7-203 of this code for any violation of this section.
   (7)   Required keys for the secure lock box key system.
      (a)   The main door entrance. Mixed occupancies and strip shopping
centers keys shall be provided for all business.
      (b)   Alarm room.
      (c)   Mechanical rooms and sprinkler control rooms.
      (d)   Fire alarm control panel.
      (e)   Electrical rooms.
      (f)   Special keys to rest pull-stations or other fire protection
devices.
      (g)   Elevator keys if not required by state law to be mounted beside
elevators.
      (h)   All other rooms as specified during the plans review process.
(as deleted by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, and replaced by Ord. #007-02-06,
Feb. 2007)
7-203. Penalties for failure to comply with key lock box system code.
   The penalties for failure to have a key lock box system and required keys
that are listed in Section
7-202 will have a minimum fine of fifty dollar ($50.00) for conviction of a
violation.
(as deleted by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, and replaced by Ord. #007-02-06,
Feb. 2007)
7-204. -- 7-209. Deleted.
(as deleted by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Special privileges with respect to traffic:
title 15, chapter 2.
SECTION
   
7-301.   Establishment, equipment, and membership.
   
7-302.   Objectives.
   
7-303.   Organization, rules, and regulations.
   
7-304.   Records and reports.
   
7-305.   Tenure and compensation of members.
   
7-306.   Chief responsible for training.
   
7-307.   Chief to be assistant to state officer.
7-301. Establishment, equipment, and membership.
   There is hereby established a fire department to be supported and equipped
from appropriations by the governing body of the city council. All apparatus,
equipment, and supplies shall be purchased by or through the city and shall be
and remain the property of the city. The fire department shall be composed of a
chief, administrative staff, and a minimum of forty-eight career fire fighting
personnel.
(1970 Code, § 7-301, as replaced by Ord. #004-08-15, Sept. 2004)
7-302. Objectives.
   The fire department shall have as its objectives:
   (1)   To prevent uncontrolled fires from starting.
   (2)   To prevent the loss of life and property because of fires.
   (3)   To confine fires to their places of origin.
   (4)   To extinguish uncontrolled fires.
   (5)   To perform such rescue work as its equipment and/or training makes
practicable.
   (6)   To provide emergency medical care at the highest level that the
equipment and training of the personnel makes practicable.
   (7)   To protect the health and safety of the citizens from the
transportation, storage or manufacture of hazardous materials to the extent
that the level of training and equipment of the personnel will allow.
   (8)   To provide public fire and life safety education materials,
information and training to the citizens.
(1970 Code, § 7-302, as replaced by Ord. #004-08-15, Sept. 2004)
7-303. Organization, rules, and regulations.
   The chief of the fire department shall set up the organization of the
department, make definite assignments to individuals, and shall formulate and
enforce such rules and regulations as shall be necessary for the orderly and
efficient operation of the fire department.
(1970 Code, § 7-303)
7-304. Records and reports.
   The chief of the fire department shall keep adequate records of all fires,
inspections, apparatus, equipment, personnel, and work of the department. He
shall submit a written report on such matters to the city manager once each
month, and at the end of the year a detailed annual report shall be made.
(1970 Code, § 7-304)
7-305. Tenure and compensation of members.
   The chief shall hold office so long as his conduct and efficiency are
satisfactory to the city manager.
   The chief shall have the authority to suspend or discharge any other member
of the fire department when he deems such action to be necessary for the good
of the department.
   All personnel of the fire department shall receive such compensation for
their services as the city council may authorize.
(1970 Code, § 7-305)
7-306. Chief responsible for training.
   The chief of the fire department shall be responsible for the training of
fire department personnel.
(1970 Code, § 7-306, modified)
7-307. Chief to be assistant to state officer.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 68-102-108, the
chief of the fire department is designated as an assistant to the state
commissioner of insurance and banking and is subject to all the duties and
obligations imposed by Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 102, and
shall be subject to the directions of the fire prevention commissioner in the
execution of the provisions thereof.
(1970 Code, § 7-308)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS
SECTION
   
7-401.   Equipment to be used only within corporate limits generally.
7-401. Equipment to be used only within corporate limits generally.
   No equipment of the fire department shall be used for fighting any fire
outside the corporate limits unless such fire is on city owned property or, in
the opinion of the chief of the fire department, is in such hazardous proximity
to property owned by or located within the city as to endanger such city
property or unless expressly authorized in writing by the city council.
(1970 Code, § 7-307)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION
   
7-501.   Definition.
   
7-502.   Manufacture prohibited.
   
7-503.   Sales restricted.
   
7-504.   Permit from state fire marshal required.
   
7-505.   City fireworks permit required; permit application; permit required
for each location; permit fee; permit not transferable; expiration of permit.
   
7-506.   Permit revocation.
   
7-507.   Business license required for each site; zoning compliance required.
   
7-508.   Separate sales tax number required.
   
7-509.   Certificate of insurance required.
   
7-510.   Standards for year-round sale of fireworks.
   
7-511.   Standards for seasonal sale of fireworks.
   
7-512.   Use restricted.
   
7-513.   Public display; permit required.
   
7-514.   Seizure authorized.
   
7-515.   Exceptions.
   
7-516.   Penalty for violation.
   
7-517.   Severability.
7-501. Definition.
   Fireworks means and shall include any combustible or explosive composition,
or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-502. Manufacture prohibited.
   No person or firm shall manufacture any fireworks within the corporate
limits of the City of Cookeville
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-503. Sales restricted.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, fireworks, within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville except in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of the latest fire prevention code
adopted in
chapter 2 of title 7 of this municipal code, and the provisions of Tennessee
Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 104, §§ 101 through 116
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-504. Permit from state fire marshal required.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, ship, or cause to be
shipped into the City of Cookeville any item of fireworks, as defined in the
latest fire prevention code adopted in
chapter 2 of title 7 of this municipal code, without a permit from the state
fire marshal. All fireworks permits shall be issued in compliance with the fire
prevention code and Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 104, §§ 101
through 116, inclusive
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-505. City fireworks permit required; permit application; permit required for
each location; permit fee; permit not transferable; expiration of permit.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, ship, or cause to be
shipped into the City of Cookeville any item of fireworks, as defined in the
latest fire prevention code adopted in
chapter 2 of title 7 of this municipal code, without a city fireworks permit
issued by the City of Cookeville Codes Department.
   (2)   An application for a city fireworks permit shall be completed and
submitted to the codes department no later than two (2) working days prior to
the date the applicant desires to begin making sales. The application shall
contain and include the following information:
      (a)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant. The applicant's
name shall also be the same as the name on the state fire marshal permit.
      (b)   Location where the sale of fireworks is proposed.
      (c)   Site plan, which shall include the dimensions of the structure used
for the sale of fireworks.
      (d)   Indication whether the permit is for the year-round or seasonal
sale of fireworks.
      (e)   A copy of the state fire marshal permit as required under §
7-504 of this chapter.
      (f)   Confirmation of business license for site and zoning code
compliance as required under §
7-507 of this chapter.
      (g)   Documentation of separate sales tax number as required by §
7-508 of this chapter.
      (h)   Documentation of certificate of insurance as required under §
7-509 of this chapter.
   (3)   A separate city fireworks permit is required for each location at
which fireworks will be sold.
   (4)   The fee for the city fireworks permit shall be $1.00 per square foot
for any structure or any tent, trailer or other temporary structure used for
the sale of fireworks, with a minimum fee of $1,200.00.
   (5)   City fireworks permits shall not be transferable.
   (6)   All city fireworks permits shall be for a calendar year or any
fraction thereof and shall expire on January 3rd
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-506. Permit revocation.
   The Cookeville Codes Department shall be authorized to revoke any city
fireworks permit upon failure to correct any of the following conditions within
twenty-four (24) hours after written notice given by the codes department.
   (1)   The permittee or the permittee's operator violates any lawful rule,
regulation, or order of the Cookeville Codes Department.
   (2)   The permittee's application contains any false or untrue statements.
   (3)   The permittee fails to timely file and/or pay any report, tax, fee,
fine or charge.
   (4)   The permittee or the permittee's operator violates any provisions of
this chapter or of Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 104, §§ 101
through 116
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-507. Business license required for each site; zoning compliance required.
   The Cookeville Codes Department shall issue no permit for the sale of
fireworks unless the applicant has first obtained a Tennessee Business License
from the Cookeville City Clerk for each site at which fireworks will be sold
and obtained approval of the zoning requirements from the Departments of
Planning and Codes of the City of Cookeville. Temporary sales vendor's permit,
bonds, and fees shall not apply for the sale of fireworks
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-508. Separate sales tax number required.
   A separate sales tax number shall be required for each site at which
fireworks will be sold. The Cookeville Codes Department shall issue no permit
for the sale of fireworks unless the applicant has first provided documentation
that a separate sales tax number has been obtained for the site of the proposed
sale of fireworks
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-509. Certificate of insurance required.
   The Cookeville Codes Department shall not issue a permit for the sale of
fireworks unless the applicant has first provided a current certificate of
insurance with a minimum of $2,000,000 in product liability and $1,000,000 in
general liability with the City of Cookeville being named as an additional
insured on the general liability insurance policy
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-510. Standards for year-round sale of fireworks.
   The following standards shall apply for year-round sale of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville:
   (1)   The year-round sale of fireworks shall be conducted within a permanent
structure built in compliance with the standard building code and standard fire
prevention code as adopted by the City of Cookeville.
   (2)   The year-round sale of fireworks from a tent, trailer, or other
temporary structure is expressly prohibited.
   (3)   The year-round sale of fireworks shall be conducted in compliance with
the provisions of the City of Cookeville Municipal Zoning Code.
   (4)   The site utilized for the year-round sale fireworks shall be a minimum
of 50 feet from any fuel source and no farther than 500 feet from an operable
fire hydrant.
   (5)   The year-round sale of fireworks shall be restricted to D. O. T. Class
C common fireworks as defined by Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter
104. The sale of "bottle" rockets with an explosive cartridge under the size of
two (2) inches in length is expressly prohibited.
   (6)   No person shall smoke within fifty (50) feet of an area where
fireworks are sold. No person selling fireworks shall permit the presence of
lighted cigars, cigarettes, or pipes within fifty (50) feet of where fireworks
are offered for sale. At all places where fireworks are stored or sold, there
shall be posted at each entrance signs with the words "Fireworks – No Smoking"
in letters not less than four (4) inches high.
   (7)   A minimum of two (2) 10 lb. ABC fire extinguishers shall be present at
each site where fireworks are sold
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-511. Standards for seasonal sale of fireworks.
   The following standards shall apply for seasonal sale of fireworks within
the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville:
   (1)   Seasonal sales of fireworks shall only be permitted from June 20th
until July 5th and from December 20th until January 2nd of any given year.
   (2)   Seasonal sales of fireworks shall be conducted in compliance with the
provisions of the City of Cookeville Municipal Zoning Code.
   (3)   All tents or similar temporary structures used for the seasonal sale
of fireworks shall be composed entirely with fire retardant materials and shall
be located on a paved, concrete or gravel surface and in no event may be
erected or placed on a grass area.
   (4)   All tents or similar temporary structures used for the seasonal sale
of fireworks shall provide an emergency exit remote from the point of entrance.
Tents shall be enclosed on no more than two (2) sides during times that
customers are present.
   (5)   The site utilized for the seasonal sale of fireworks shall be a
minimum of 200 feet from any fuel source and no farther than 500 feet from an
operable fire hydrant.
   (6)   The seasonal sale of fireworks shall be restricted to D. O. T. Class C
common fireworks as defined by Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68, chapter 104.
The sale of "bottle" rockets with an explosive cartridge under the size of two
(2) inches in length is expressly prohibited.
   (7)   No person shall smoke within fifty (50) feet of an area where
fireworks are sold. No person selling fireworks shall permit the presence of
lighted cigars, cigarettes, or pipes within fifty (50) feet of where fireworks
are offered for sale. At all places where fireworks are stored or sold, there
shall be posted at each entrance signs with the words "Fireworks – No Smoking"
in letters not less than four (4) inches high.
   (8)   A minimum of two (2) 10 lb. ABC fire extinguishers shall be present at
each site where fireworks are sold
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-512. Use restricted.
   The following restrictions shall apply for the use of fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville:
   (1)   Except as permitted under §
7-509 of this chapter, the use of fireworks shall be restricted to D. O. T.
Class C common fireworks as defined by Tennessee Code Annotated, title 68,
chapter 104. The sale of "bottle" rockets with an explosive cartridge under the
size of two (2) inches in length is expressly prohibited.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful to use or explode any fireworks within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville except from July 1st until July 5th
and from December 28th until January 2nd of any given year.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful to use or explode fireworks within the corporate
limits of the City of Cookeville earlier than 9:00 AM or later than 10:00 PM,
with the exception of July 4th on which the time shall be no later than 12:00
AM and New Year's Eve on which the time shall be no later than 1:00 AM.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale or to sell any fireworks to
children under the age of sixteen (16) years of age.
   (5)   It shall be unlawful to offer for sale or to sell any fireworks to any
intoxicated or seemingly irresponsible person.
   (6)   It shall be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks on or onto another
person's property unless permission is obtained from the owner or occupant of
said property.
   (7)   It shall be unlawful to explode or ignite fireworks within six hundred
(600) feet of any church, hospital, funeral home, public or private school, or
within two-hundred (200) feet of where fireworks are stored, sold, or offered
for sale.
   (8)   It shall be unlawful to ignite or discharge fireworks from or within a
motor vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to place or throw any
ignited article of fireworks into or at a motor vehicle, or at or near any
person or group of persons
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-513. Public display; permit required.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as applying to the shipping,
sale, possession and use of fireworks for public display by holders of a permit
for public display to be conducted in accordance with the rules and regulations
promulgated by the state fire marshal. Such items of fireworks that are to be
used for public display only and which are otherwise prohibited for sale and
use within the City of Cookeville shall include display shells designed to be
fired from mortars and display set pieces of fireworks classified as D. O. T.
Class B special fireworks and shall not include such items of commercial
fireworks as cherry bombs, tubular salutes, repeating bombs, aerial bombs and
torpedoes. Public displays shall be performed only under competent supervision,
and after the persons or organizations making such displays shall have applied
for and received a permit for such display issued by the state fire marshal. A
condition for state issuance of a permit for public fireworks display is the
approval of the chief official of the fire and of the police departments of the
city. Such approval shall be granted if, in the opinion of those officials, the
proposed display will be located and supervised in conformity with state law
and will not be hazardous to life or property
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-514. Seizure authorized.
   The director of the codes department or his designee shall seize, take,
remove or cause to be removed at the expense of the owner of all stocks or
fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale, stored or held in
violation of this chapter
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-515. Exceptions.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of fireworks
by railroads or other transportation agencies for signal purposes or
illumination, the sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, the
use of fireworks for military operations, or for public displays of fireworks
meeting the requirements of the fire prevention code
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-516. Penalty for violation.
   The violation of any part of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor and upon conviction of any person for such violation, that person
is to be fined according to general penalty provision of this municipal code.
Each subsequent day that any violation continues unabated shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, the codes department may refuse to issue another
city fireworks permit to the holder of a permit so convicted for a period not
to exceed two (2) years
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
7-517. Severability.
   If any court of competent jurisdiction declares any portion of these
regulations to be invalid that ruling shall not affect any other portion not
specifically included in that ruling
(as added by Ord. #003-10-19, Dec. 2003)
TITLE 8
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Driving under the influence: § 15-108.
   Public drunkenness and prohibiting drinking beer, etc. on streets:
title 11.
   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL BOARD.
      
2.   SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR ON-PREMISE CONSUMPTION.
      
3.   SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR OFF-PREMISE CONSUMPTION.
      
4.   BEER.
      
5.   CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND PUBLIC
STREETS.
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL BOARD
SECTION
   
8-101.   Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (ABCB).
   
8-102.   [Deleted.]
   
8-103.   [Deleted.]
   
8-104.   [Deleted.]
   
8-105.   [Deleted.]
   
8-106.   [Deleted.]
8-101. Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (ABCB).
   (1)   The city council, in its discretion, may serve as the ABCB, or may, by
resolution, establish a separate, independent ABCB and shall appoint five (5)
members for four (4) year terms. A member whose term has expired shall continue
to serve until his or her successor is appointed in the manner as herein
provided.
   (2)   In the event of death or resignation of a board member prior to
expiration of his or her term, a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
term in the same manner as the deceased or retiring board member was appointed,
and shall take office immediately upon appointment. Such successor board member
shall be eligible for re-appointment to a full term.
   (3)   No person shall be appointed to the ABCB unless he or she is a
resident of the City of Cookeville.
   (4)   Members of the ABCB shall administer the laws governing alcoholic
beverages as enacted by the State of Tennessee and the City of Cookeville. The
ABCB shall have no legislative powers.
   (5)   The city council may terminate the ABCB by resolution.
(1970 Code, § 2-101, as replaced by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-102. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-102, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-103. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-103, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-104. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-104, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-105. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-105, as replaced by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and deleted by
Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-106. [Deleted].
(as added by Ord. #006-09-21, Sept 2006, and deleted by Ord. #006-11-27, Nov.
2006)
CHAPTER 2
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR ON-PREMISE CONSUMPTION
SECTION
   
8-201.   Definition of "alcoholic beverages."
   
8-202.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises.
   
8-203.   Privilege tax on retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on
the premises.
   
8-204.   Annual privilege tax to be paid to the city clerk.
   
8-205.   [Deleted.]
   
8-206.   [Deleted.]
   
8-207.   [Deleted.]
   
8-208.   [Deleted.]
   
8-209.   [Deleted.]
   
8-210.   [Deleted.]
   
8-211.   [Deleted.]
   
8-212.   [Deleted.]
   
8-213.   [Deleted.]
   
8-214.   [Deleted.]
   
8-215.   [Deleted.]
   
8-216.   [Deleted.]
   
8-217.   [Deleted.]
   
8-218.   [Deleted.]
   
8-219.   [Deleted.]
   
8-220.   [Deleted.]
   
8-221.   [Deleted.]
   
8-222.   [Deleted.]
   
8-223.   [Deleted.]
8-201. Definition of "alcoholic beverages."
   As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise: "alcoholic
beverages" means and includes alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, and every liquid
containing alcohol, spirits, wine and capable of being consumed by a human
being, other than patented medicine or beer, where the latter contains an
alcoholic content of five percent (5%) by weight, or less.
(Ord. #000-03-10, April 2000, as replaced by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-202. Consumption of alcoholic beverages on premises.
   Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 4, and as subsequently amended,
is hereby adopted so as to be applicable to all sales of alcoholic beverages
for on-premises consumption, which are regulated by the said code when such
sales are conducted within the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee. It is
the intent of the city council that Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter
4, and as subsequently amended, shall be effective in Cookeville, Tennessee,
the same as if said code sections were copied herein verbatim.
(1970 Code, § 2-201.1, as amended by Ord. #000-03-10, April 2000, and replaced
by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-203. Privilege tax on retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on
the premises.
   Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-4-301, and subsequently amended,
there is hereby levied a privilege tax (in the same amounts levied by Tennessee
Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 4, section 301, and as subsequently amended,
for the City of Cookeville general fund to be paid annually as provided herein
this chapter) upon any person, firm, corporation, joint stock company,
syndicate, or association engaging in the business of selling at retail in the
City of Cookeville alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where
sold.
(1970 Code, § 2-202, as amended by Ord. #000-03-10, April 2000, and replaced by
Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-204. Annual privilege tax to be paid to the city clerk.
   Any person, firm, corporation, joint stock company, syndicate, or
association exercising the privilege of selling alcoholic beverages for
consumption on the premises in the City of Cookeville shall remit annually to
the city clerk the appropriate tax described in §
8-203. Such payment shall be remitted not less than thirty (30) days following
the end of each twelve (12) month period from the original date of the license.
Upon the transfer of ownership of such business or the discontinuance of such
business, said tax shall be filed within thirty (30) days following such event.
Any person, firm, corporation, joint stock company, syndicate, or association
failing to make payment of the appropriate tax when due shall be subject to the
penalty provided by law.
(1970 Code, § 2-202.1, as replaced by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-205. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #000-03-10, April 2000, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-206. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-204, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-207. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-205, as amended by Ord. #000-03-10, April 2000, and Ord. #002-
02-02, Feb. 2002; replaced by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and deleted by Ord.
#011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-208. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-206, as replaced by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and deleted by
Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-209. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-21, Sept. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-210. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-21, Sept. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-211. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-21, Sept. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-212. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-21, Sept. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and
deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-213. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-211, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-214. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-212, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-215. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-213, as replaced by Ord. #006-09-21, Sept 2006, and Ord. #006-
11-27, Nov 2006, and deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-216. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-214, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-217. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #099-09-19, Sept. 1999, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-218. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-216, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-219. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-217, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-220. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-218, as replaced by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and deleted by
Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-221. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-219, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-222. [Deleted.]
(1970 Code, § 2-220, as deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-223. [Deleted.]
(as added by Ord. #005-02-03, March 2005, and deleted by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb.
2011)
CHAPTER 3
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR OFF-PREMISE CONSUMPTION
SECTION
   
8-301.   Definitions.
   
8-302.   Retail sale of alcoholic beverages subject to regulation.
   
8-303.   Inspection fee on retail sale of alcoholic beverages for off-premise
consumption -- inspections -- documentation.
   
8-304.   Inspection fee to be paid to the city clerk.
   
8-305.   Residency requirement.
   
8-306.   Location and size restrictions.
   
8-307.   Applications -- fees -- approval or rejection -- effect of felony
conviction.
   
8-308.   Time period for opening store.
   
8-309.   Inspections -- enforcement -- authority.
   
8-310.   Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality in this title.
8-301. Definitions.
   (1)   Definition of "alcoholic beverages." As used in this chapter, unless
the context indicates otherwise: "alcoholic beverages" means and includes
alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, and every liquid containing alcohol, spirits,
wine and capable of being consumed by a human being, other than patented
medicine or beer, where the latter contains an alcoholic content of five
percent (5%) by weight, or less.
   (2)   Definition of "certificate of compliance." As used in this chapter,
"certificate of compliance" means a certificate signed by the mayor certifying:
      (a)   That the applicant or applicants who are to be in actual charge of
the business have not been convicted of a felony within a ten (10) year period
immediately preceding the date of application and, if a corporation, that the
executive officers or those in control have not been convicted of a felony
within a ten (10) year period immediately preceding the date of the
application; and further, that in the official's opinion the applicant will not
violate any of the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 3,
and as subsequently amended;
      (b)   That the applicant or applicants have secured a location for the
business which complies with all restrictions of any local law, ordinance, or
resolution, duly adopted by the local jurisdiction, as to the location of the
business;
      (c)   That the applicant has complied with the residency provisions; and
      (d)   That the applicant or applicants have complied with any local law,
ordinance or resolution duly adopted by the local authorities.
   (3)   Definition of "church." As used in this chapter, "church" means a
building (sanctuary) where the congregation gathers for regularly scheduled
worship services. "Church" shall not mean parishes, or any other facility or
property that is not used as a sanctuary for regularly scheduled worship
services.
   (4)   Definition of "school." As used in this chapter, "school" means any
grammar school, middle school, or high school, which is owned and operated by
the Putnam County Board of Education or a church. "School" shall not include
private colleges or schools wherein only specialized subjects such as law,
stenography, business, music, art, medicine, dentistry, vocational occupations
or other special subjects are taught. "School" shall also not mean any private
for profit schools.
   (5)   Definition of "university or technical school." As used in this
chapter, university or technical school shall mean any university, or technical
school owned and operated by the State of Tennessee
   (6)   Definition of "retail food store" means an establishment that is open
to the public that derives at least twenty percent (20%) of its sales taxable
sales from the retail sale of food and food ingredients for human consumption
taxed at the rate provided in 67-6-228(a) and has retail floor space of at
least one thousand two hundred square feet (1,200 sq. ft.).
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
802.
   (7)   Definition of "wine" means the product of the normal alcoholic
fermentation of the juice of fresh, sound ripe grapes, with the usual cellar
treatment and necessary additions to correct defects due to climatic,
saccharine and seasonal conditions, including champagne, sparkling and
fortified wine of an alcoholic content not to exceed eighteen percent (18%) of
volume. No other product shall be called "wine" unless designated by
appropriate prefixes descriptive of the fruit or other product from which the
same was predominantly produced, or an artificial or imitation wine.
   "Wine" does not mean alcohol derived from wine that has had substantial
changes to the wine due to the addition of flavorings and additives.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
802.
   (8)   Definition of "high alcohol content beer" means an alcoholic beverage
which is beer, ale or other malt beverage having an alcoholic content of more
than eight percent (8%) by weight and not more than twenty percent (20%) by
weight, except wine as defined in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-101, that is
brewed, regulated, distributed or sold pursuant to chapter 3 of this title;
provided, that no more than forty-nine percent (49%) of the overall alcoholic
content of such beverage may be derived from the addition of flavors and other
nonbeverage ingredients containing alcohol.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
802.
   (9)   Definition of "distillery" means and includes any place or premises
wherein any liquors are manufactured for sale.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (10)   Definition of "distiller" means any person who owns, occupies,
carries on, works, conducts or operates any distillery either personally or by
an agent.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (11)   Definition of "manufacture" means and includes brewing high alcohol
content beer, distilling, rectifying and operating a winery.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (12)   Definition of "manufacturer" means and includes a brewer of high
alcohol content beer, distiller, vintner and rectifier.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (13)   Definition of "rectifier" means and includes any person who
rectifies, purifies or refines distilled spirits or wines by any process other
than as provided for on distillery premises, and every person who, without
rectifying, purifying or refining distilled spirits, shall, by mixing such
spirits, wine or other liquor with any material, manufacture any imitation of,
or compounds liquors for sale under the name of, whiskey, brandy, gin, rum,
wine, spirits, cordials, bitters or any other name.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (14)   Definition of "vintner" means any person who owns, occupies, carries
on, works, conducts or operates any winery, either personally or by an agent.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (15)   Definition of "winery" means and includes any place or premises
wherein wines are manufactured from any fruit or brandies distilled as the by-
product of wine or other fruit or cordials compounded, and also includes a
winery for the manufacture of wine.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
   (16)   Definition of "micro-distillery/winery" means a facility for the
production and packaging of wines and liquors for distribution, retail or
wholesale, on or off premises.
   Or as amended by the State Legislature in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
101.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015, and Ord. #O18-05-11, May 2018)
8-302. Retail sale of alcoholic beverages subject to regulation.
   Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 3, and as subsequently amended,
and all rules and regulations of the Tennessee Alcoholic Beverage Commission
contained in chapter 0100-03 of Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. are hereby adopted so as
to be applicable to all sales of alcoholic beverages for off-premises
consumption, which are regulated by the said code when such sales are conducted
within the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee. Tennessee Code Annotated,
title 57, chapter 3, and as subsequently amended, shall be effective in
Cookeville, Tennessee, the same as if said code sections were copied herein
verbatim. Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 3, §§ 801 et seq. is
hereby adopted so as to be applicable to all sales of wine in retail food
stores when such sales are conducted within the corporate limits of Cookeville,
Tennessee. Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57, chapter 3, §§ 801 et seq. and as
subsequently amended shall be effective in Cookeville, Tennessee the same as if
said code sections were copied herein verbatim.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015)
8-303. Inspection fee on retail sale of alcoholic beverages for off-premise
consumption -- inspections -- documentation.
   (1)   In order to provide a means of ensuring compliance with this chapter
and regulating the sale of alcohol for off-premise consumption, pursuant to
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-501, and as subsequently amended, there is
hereby levied an inspection fee of five percent (5%) of the wholesale price of
alcoholic beverages (in the same amounts levied by Tennessee Code Annotated,
title 57, chapter 3, section 501, and as subsequently amended, for the City of
Cookeville general fund to be paid monthly as provided herein this chapter)
upon licensed retailers of alcoholic beverages located within the corporate
limits of the City of Cookeville.
   (2)   A duly authorized representative of the city shall have the right to
inspect the premises for which a certificate of compliance is requested or has
been issued under this chapter and to audit the books, papers, and records of
any dealer, wholesale or retail, for the purpose of determining whether the
provisions of this chapter are being complied with, and any refusal to permit
the examination of any such books, papers, and records or the investigation and
examination of such premises shall constitute sufficient reason for the
imposition of any penalty allowed by law.
   (3)   Every licensee of a retail liquor store shall retain all invoices of
alcoholic beverages procured by it from any wholesale dealer for a period of
not less than thirty-six (36) months
   This also applies to wine sales in retail food stores. This also applies to
manufacturer, distiller, rectifier or vintner.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015, and Ord. #O18-05-11, May 2018)
8-304. Inspection fee to be paid to the city clerk.
   The inspection fee levied in §
8-303 shall be collected by the wholesaler from the retailer following notice
given to the wholesaler by the City of Cookeville that an inspection fee has
been imposed by ordinance upon the retailers located within the Cookeville city
limits. The inspection fee shall be collected by the wholesaler at the time of
the sale or at the time the retailer makes payment for the delivery of the
alcoholic beverages. Each wholesaler making sales to retailers located within
the City of Cookeville shall furnish the city a report monthly. The report
shall contain a list of the alcoholic beverages sold to each retailer located
within the City of Cookeville, the wholesale price of the alcoholic beverages
sold to each retailer, the amount of tax due, and such other information as may
be required by the city. The monthly report shall be furnished to the city not
later than the twentieth of the month following which the sales were made. The
inspection fees collected by the wholesaler from the retailer or retailers
located within the city shall be paid to the city at the time the monthly
report is made. Wholesalers collecting and remitting the above inspection fee
shall be entitled to reimbursement for this collection service, a sum equal to
five percent (5%) of the total amount of inspection fees collected and
remitted; such reimbursement to be deducted and shown on the monthly report to
the city. Failure to collect or timely report and/or pay the inspection fee
collected shall result in a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the fee due the
city
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-305. Residency requirement.
   No person, member or firm, corporation, partnership or association shall be
granted a certificate of compliance for, or own or operate, a retail store for
the sale of alcoholic beverages as herein defined if he/she has not been a
resident of Putnam County for two (2) years next preceding the filing of the
application for a license. If the application is for a corporation or other
entity, then all of the stock, ownership interest, and/or membership interest
in the entity must be owned by individual(s) who each meet the foregoing
residency requirement. No stock, ownership interest, or membership interest in
any corporation or other entity may be transferred at any time to any other
person who does not meet the foregoing residency requirement
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-306. Location and size restrictions.
   (1)   No certificate of compliance shall be granted and no retail store for
the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be allowed to operate where such store
would not be a permitted use under the provisions of the Cookeville Zoning
Code.
   (2)   No certificate of compliance for a retail liquor store shall be issued
and no retail liquor store shall be allowed to operate if the proposed store
would be located within two hundred feet (200') of any church as defined in
this chapter in §
8-301(3). The distance between a retail liquor store and a church shall be
measured from the closest outside wall of the proposed retail liquor store and
the closest outside wall of the church building.
   (3)   No certificate of compliance for a retail liquor store shall be issued
and no retail liquor store shall be allowed to operate if the proposed store
would be located within four hundred feet (400') from a school as defined in
this chapter in §
8-301(4). The distance between a retail liquor store and a school shall be
measured from the nearest location of such school ground to the closest outside
wall of the proposed retail liquor store.
   (4)   No certificate of compliance for a retail liquor store shall be issued
and no retail liquor store shall be allowed to operate if the proposed store
would be located within two hundred feet (200') of any university or technical
school as defined in this chapter in §
8-301(5). The distance between a retail liquor store and a university or
technical school shall be measured from the closest outside wall of the
proposed retail liquor store and the closest outside wall of the nearest
university or technical school building.
   (5)   All measurements shall be in a straight line. In the event that a
proposed retail liquor store is located in a shopping center or other multi-
tenant building, the measurement shall be made at the nearest wall of the unit
to be occupied by the retail liquor store. It shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to certify that the proposed retail liquor store meets or exceeds
the distance requirements required in this section. At the request of the city,
the applicant shall be required to submit a survey demonstrating the property
meets the distance requirements.
   (6)   Any retail liquor store authorized by this chapter shall contain a
minimum floor space of one thousand (1,000) square feet that is accessible to
the public.
   (7)   Drive-through windows are not permitted.
   (8)   In the event any existing retail liquor store must be relocated or
removed from its location as a result of any federal, state, or local
government's or governmental agency's acquisition of property through
condemnation or other exercise of eminent domain power, then the store may be
relocated to any other location where the store would comply with subsections
(1) through (7) of this section
   (9)   No certificate of compliance for the "retail food store" will be
granted unless the retail food store complies with Tennessee Code Annotated, §
57-3-802 and as subsequently amended with respect to sales and size.
   (10)   The distance between distilleries manufacturing distilled spirits
shall be a minimum of one thousand feet (1000') as defined in Tennessee Code
Annotated, § 57-2-103(6) and as subsequently amended.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015, and Ord. #O18-05-11, May 2018)
8-307. Applications -- fees -- approval or rejection -- effect of felony
conviction.
   (1)   Before any person or entity may receive a certificate of compliance,
the applicant shall make an application in writing and file with the city clerk
on a form to be provided by the city, providing the following information for
each applicant, and if the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or other
entity, provide the following information for each and every stockholder,
partner, member or the owner of any other interest in the entity:
      (a)   The name, date of birth, social security number and home address,
and if a corporation, partnership, or other entity, the percentage ownership of
each person in the entity;
      (b)   Number of years of residence in Putnam County;
      (c)   Current occupation or business and length of time engaged in such
occupation or business;
      (d)   Whether or not the applicant(s) has been convicted of any violation
of any state or federal law or of the violation of any municipal ordinance;
      (e)   If employed, the name and address of employer;
      (f)   If in business, the kind of business and location thereof;
      (g)   The location of the proposed store for the sale of alcoholic
beverages and the floor size in square feet to be accessible to members of the
public for the sale of alcoholic beverages;
      (h)   The name and address of the owner(s) of the premises and the amount
of rent to be paid. The applicant shall attach a copy of the deed as well as a
copy of any lease agreement relating to the premises;
      (i)   The amount of money invested, or to be invested, and the source of
funds to be used, and if borrowed, the name of the person or entity from whom
the funds were borrowed, the name of the bank with which the applicant does
business, and the name of any person who is aiding the venture financially,
either by loan, gift, or otherwise;
      (j)   The name of any person who will have any interest, direct or
indirect, in the business of the applicant or in the profits thereof, and the
nature and character of such interest, and whether the person holds or has held
any wholesale or retail license, and the name, address, date of birth, and
social security number of any person who will be in active control in the
management of the business;
      (k)   A statement that no person prohibited from having any direct or
indirect interest in the proposed store has any such interest;
      (l)   The distance to the nearest school or church, measured in feet;
      (m)   A statement that the applicant will comply with all requirements of
the City of Cookeville Municipal Code and all requirements of Tennessee Code
Annotated, title 57, chapter 3, and as subsequently amended, and any other
federal or state laws and regulations relating to the sale or distribution of
alcoholic beverages;
      (n)   A statement that the publication required by Tennessee Code
Annotated, title 57, chapter 3, and as subsequently amended, and in the Rules
of the Tennessee Alcoholic Beverage Commission, Tenn. Comp. R. & Regs. 0100-
03-.09(10) and (11) has been made. The applicant shall attach a copy of each of
the published notices from the newspaper of general circulation so that the
date of each publication is visible;
      (o)   If the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company, or
any other entity for which registration is required with the Secretary of the
State of Tennessee or the state of incorporation, provide a copy of the charter
recorded with the secretary of state and a certificate of good standing dated
within ninety (90) days prior to the date of the application.
   (2)   The application shall be verified by the oath of the applicant and
each stockholder, partner, member, and the owner of any other interest.
   (3)   The city clerk may require any applicant or owner of any interest in
the proposed retail liquor store to provide any documentation necessary to
verify any information required by this section, or to verify compliance with
any aspect of this code.
   (4)   In order to provide a means for the city to consider the application
and conduct any necessary background investigation, the applicant will pay an
application fee to the City of Cookeville general fund in the amount of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per application, and one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each additional person listed on the application, which must be paid at the
time of the application, and is non-refundable.
   (5)   The alcoholic beverage control board is hereby designated, appointed,
and given authority for the purpose of approving applicants for issuance of a
certificate of compliance, and for rescinding, suspending, or revoking
certificates of compliance.
   (6)   Upon submission of a completed application, the alcoholic beverage
control board shall consider the application, and approve or reject same, no
sooner than ten (10) business days and no later than sixty (60) calendar days
after the application is received by the city clerk.
   (7)   No person or entity shall make an application where the applicant or
any other person having an ownership interest in the entity shall have been
convicted of a felony within ten (10) years prior to the date of the
application, and no application will be approved for any person or entity where
anyone having such an interest has been so convicted.
   (8)   If an application is approved by the alcoholic beverage control board,
the mayor will affix his or her signature to the certificate of compliance,
complying with the terms of this chapter and Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-
208, and as subsequently amended.
   (9)   If an application is denied by the alcoholic beverage control board,
the applicant may appeal the decision of the alcoholic beverage control board
to the city council. The appeal must be submitted within five (5) business
days. The appeal will be heard by the city council at its next regularly
scheduled meeting.
   The decision of the city council shall be final
   (10)   Before any person or entity may receive a certificate of compliance
(sales of wine in retail food stores), the applicant shall make an application
in writing and file with the city clerk on a form to be provided by the city,
providing the following information:
      (a)   Name of applicant (executive officer/general manager that will be
in direct control of the retail food store), official title, home address,
birth date, social security number, driver's license number, phone number, list
of addresses lived within the last year,
      (b)   current occupation/name of current employer,
      (c)   a statement as to whether the applicant has been convicted for a
felony in the last ten years next preceding the filing of this application,
      (d)   physical address of proposed food store and total square footage of
the floor space accessible to the public,
      (e)   distance of proposed food store to the nearest retail liquor store,
      (f)   copy of covenants if located in a shopping center/business
development,
      (g)   agree to a statement to comply with all requirements of the
Cookeville Municipal Code and all requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated,
title 57, chapter 3, and any other federal or state laws and regulations
relating to the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   (11)   In order to provide a means for the city to consider the application
and conduct any necessary background investigation, the applicant will pay a
non-refundable application fee to the City of Cookeville general fund in the
amount of $400.00.
   (12)   Before any manufacturer, distiller, rectifier or vintner may receive
a certificate of compliance or occupancy and zoning approval, the applicant
shall make an application in writing and file with the city clerk on a form to
be provided by the city with a non-refundable application fee in the amount of
$400.00.
   (13)   Before receiving a certification of compliance or occupancy and
zoning approval or engaging in distilling, rectifying or operating a winery,
manufacturers, distillers, rectifiers and vintners will pay to the Cookeville
City Clerk a privilege tax of one thousand dollars ($1000) as defined in
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-2-102 and as subsequently amended.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015, and Ord. #O18-05-11, May 2018)
8-308. Time period for opening store.
   The certificate of compliance issued herein shall be valid for a period of
six (6) months from the date of issuance and thereafter shall become void and
of no effect whatsoever. If requested in writing by the applicant and approved
by the city manager, up to two (2) three (3) month extensions may be granted by
the city manager when necessary to avoid undue hardship on the applicant. In
any event, the written request must be both received and approved prior to the
expiration of the initial six (6) month period or prior to the expiration of
the first three (3) month extension. In the event the store is not open within
the period prescribed by this provision, then the certificate of compliance
will be automatically void and of no further effect, the application will be
deemed void and of no further effect.
   Should the applicant then desire another certificate of compliance, the
applicant will be required to reapply as if it were a new application and meet
all requirements as any new applicant
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-309. Inspections -- enforcement -- authority.
   In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, the city manager is
authorized to call upon any city employee to assist in the inspections
authorized hereunder and the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-310. Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality in this title.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this title are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
title shall be declared unconstitutional or illegal by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs and sections of this title since the same would have been enacted by
the city council without incorporation in this title of any such
unconstitutional or illegal phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
CHAPTER 4
BEER 1
1   State law reference
   For a leading case on a city's authority to regulate beer, see the Tennessee
Supreme Court decision in Watkins v. Naifeh, 635 S.W.2d 104 (1982).
SECTION
   
8-401.   Definitions.
   
8-402.   Authority to grant, revoke, etc., beer permits.
   
8-403.   Permit and application fee required for selling beer.
   
8-404.   Privilege tax.
   
8-405.   Permits are not transferable.
   
8-406.   Permit forfeited if permittee is convicted of certain offenses.
   
8-407.   Applicant shall file written application containing certain specific
requirements.
   
8-408.   Permits authorized for certain businesses.
   
8-409.   Permits issued to hotels and motels.
   
8-410.   Permits issued to restaurants/limited service restaurants.
   
8-411.   Permits issued to private clubs.
   
8-412.   Permits issued for sale of beer within corporate limits not for
consumption on the premises.
   
8-413.   Sale to anyone under 21 years of age or to intoxicated persons
unlawful.
   
8-414.   Hours and days of sale, etc., regulated.
   
8-415.   Permittee not to allow anyone under 21 years of age to loiter,
possess, or consume alcoholic beverages inside the premises.
   
8-416.   Unlawful for anyone under 21 years of age to misrepresent age.
   
8-417.   Prohibited sexual or pornographic conduct/enforcement.
   
8-418.   The ABCB is vested with the authority to conduct hearings on
revocation or suspension of beer permits issued under this chapter.
   
8-419.   Permits not required for certain retail and wholesale beer
establishments.
   
8-420.   Violations.
   
8-421.   Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality in this title.
   
8-422.   Special events permits.
8-401. Definitions.
   (1)   Definition of "beer". As used in this chapter, "beer" shall mean any
beer, ale, or other malt beverage, or any other beverages having an alcoholic
content of not more than five percent (5%) by weight, prior to January 1, 2017,
and thereafter, eight percent (8%) by weight, except wine as defined in
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-101 and as subsequently amended; provided,
however, that no more than forty-nine percent (49%) of the overall alcoholic
content of such beverage may be derived from the addition of flavors and other
non-beverage ingredients containing alcohol.
   (2)   Definition of "business." As used in this chapter, "business" shall
mean any person, firm, corporation, joint stock company, syndicate, or
association.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015)
8-402. Authority to grant, revoke, etc., beer permits.
   (1)   The city council, or the city clerk, is designated, appointed and
given authority for the purpose of granting or refusing permits for the sale,
storage and warehousing of beer within the corporate limits of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
   (2)   The city council, or the Alcoholic Beverage Control Board (ABCB),
appointed as provided herein, is designated, appointed and given authority for
the purpose of rescinding, suspending, or revoking permits for the sale,
storage and warehousing of beer within the corporate limits of Cookeville,
Tennessee
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-403. Permit and application fee required for selling beer.
   It shall be unlawful for any business to offer for sale or sell beer, as
hereinbefore designated, without having first applied to and received from the
city clerk a permit authorizing them to make such sale, and that before being
granted a permit to sell beer of the nature as set out above, they shall first
pay to the City Clerk of Cookeville, Tennessee, a non-refundable application
fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-404. Privilege tax.
   There is hereby imposed on the business of selling, distributing, storing or
manufacturing beer an annual privilege tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Any business engaged in the sale, distribution, storage or manufacture of beer
shall remit the tax on January 1st annually to the city clerk. At the time a
new permit is issued to any business subject to this section, the permit holder
shall be required to pay the privilege tax on a prorated basis for each month
or portion thereof remaining until the next tax payment date
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-405. Permits are not transferable.
   Permits issued hereunder shall remain in full force an effect until they are
canceled and revoked or suspended by the ABCB, and no permit shall be
transferable. Should the holder of a permit, whether it be a business, go out
of business or move its place of business from one point in Cookeville,
Tennessee, to another point within said city, immediately upon the cessation of
business at the original place, the permit theretofore granted shall be
rescinded and be of no further force or effect, and is immediately null and
void
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-406. Permit forfeited if permittee is convicted of certain offenses.
   Any business who shall have been granted a permit to sell or distribute
beer, who shall, after having obtained said permit, be convicted by any court
of competent jurisdiction of violating any of the laws against possession,
sale, manufacture, and/or transportation of intoxicating liquor, or of any
crime involving moral turpitude, forthwith shall forfeit his or its permit to
sell within the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee, and each sale of
beer, after any conviction, shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-407. Applicant shall file written application containing certain specific
requirements.
   Before any permit is issued by the city clerk, the applicant therefore shall
file with the city clerk a sworn petition in writing and shall establish the
following:
   (1)   The name and home address of the applicant.
   (2)   The applicant shall state as to whether he/she has been a citizen or
lawful resident of the United States for at least one year immediately
preceding the date of applying for a beer permit in the manner prescribed by
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-5-103(a) and as subsequently amended.
   (3)   The applicant shall agree to an in depth background check by the city
clerk.
   (4)   The business name and location of the premises at which the business
shall be conducted. The business name shall not contain the word "beer."
   (5)   The owner or owners of such premises.
   (6)   That the applicant shall not engage in the sale of such beverages
except at the place or places for which the city clerk has issued a permit to
such applicant.
   (7)   That no sale of such beverage will be made except in accordance with
the permit granted.
   (8)   The applicant shall state as to whether the permit for the sale of
beer is sought for consumption on the premises or for sale to be carried off
the premises with no consumption on the premises; excluding manufacturer which
will be on-premises and off-premises.
   (9)   If the application is for consumption on the premises, the applicant
will state the nature of the business and the seating capacity of the
facilities. If the application is for consumption off the premises, the
applicant shall state whether the location of the business is permitted under
the provisions of the Cookeville Zoning Code. If the application is for a
private club, the applicant shall state the number of years of existence under
the private club's charter of incorporation granted by the State of Tennessee,
and as to whether it is a corporation for profit or a corporation not for
profit.
   (10)   That neither the applicant nor any persons employed, or to be
employed by him in such distribution or sale of such beverage, has ever been
convicted of any violation of the law against prohibition, sale, possession,
manufacture, or transportation of intoxicating liquor, or of any crime
involving moral turpitude within the past ten (10) years.
   (11)   That the applicant has not had a license for the sale of legalized
beer revoked.
   (12)   The application shall state whether the applicant will manage the
business in person, or is acting as an agent.
   (13)   That no brewer or distiller of legalized beer has any interest,
financial or otherwise, in the premises upon or in which the business to be
licensed is carried on.
   (14)   That no brewer or distiller of legalized beer has any interest,
financial or otherwise, in the business which is licensed, or requested to be
licensed.
   (15)   That the applicant will not thereafter convey or grant any brewer or
distiller of legalized beer any interest in either the business in which the
license is permitted, or in any other property at which such business may
thereafter be carried on.
   (16)   That the applicant has, at the time of making such application, no
indebtedness or other financial obligation to any brewer or distiller of
legalized beer, and will not during the period such license shall be in force,
contract any financial obligation to any brewer or distiller of legalized beer
other than for the purpose of purchasing beer for resale.
   (17)   This application shall be verified by the affidavit of the applicant
or a duly authorized officer of the applicant, made before a notary public or
the city clerk, and if any false statement is made in any part of such
application the permit or license granted or issued to the applicant shall be
revoked by the city council or ABCB.
   (18)   In the event of a reported violation of the abcb regulations of the
state alcoholic beverage laws as defined in Tennessee Code Annotated, title 57,
and as subsequently amended, the clerk shall not issue a new beer permit for
the location of the alleged violation until the allegation has been resolved,
whether by a hearing before the board or otherwise
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015)
8-408. Permits authorized for certain businesses.
   No beer permit will be issued for any business to sell beer at retail within
the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee, or to possess the same for the
purpose of resale in any zone that prohibits the sale of beer by the Cookeville
Zoning Code.
   Permits issued to Manufacturer. A manufacturer permit may be issued for the
sale and manufacturing of beer to any manufacturer that meets the requirements
set forth in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-5-102 to manufacture beer and to
store, distribute, sell at wholesale, and sell at retail, for both on-premises
and off-premises consumption to the extent permitted by and in accordance with
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-5-101 and other applicable state law and as
subsequently amended.
   Inspection fee on retail sale of high alcohol content beer by manufacturer
for off-premise/on-premise consumption. When a manufacturer of high alcohol
content beer obtains a retail license to sell its products which are
manufactured on the manufacturer's premises, there is hereby levied a fifteen
percent (15%) inspection fee to inspect the retail store in which such products
are sold by the manufacturer. Such inspection fee shall be imposed on the
wholesale price of the high alcohol content beer supplied pursuant to Tennessee
Code Annotated, § 57-3-204(e)(7)(B) by a wholesaler for those products
manufactured and sold by the manufacturer at its retail store as authorized
pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-3-204(e)(7).
   Permits issued to Golf Course. A permit may be issued for the sale of beer
for on-premise consumption to any public or private golf course consisting of
at least nine (9) holes which also has a clubhouse, pro shop and/or restaurant.
Beer shall be consumed on the premises. The golf course shall be considered as
part of the premises. Beer consumed on the golf course may be consumed in cans
only. There shall be no consumption of beer permitted on any parking lot. There
shall be no beer sold from beverage carts.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-20, Aug.
2015)
8-409. Permits issued to hotels and motels.
   A permit may be issued for the sale of beer for on-premises consumption to
any hotel or motel that has been licensed by the State of Tennessee Alcoholic
Beverage Commission to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-410. Permits issued to restaurants/limited service restaurants.
   A permit may be issued for the sale of beer for on-premises consumption to
any restaurant/limited service restaurant that meets the requirements set forth
in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-4-102, and as subsequently amended
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-411. Permits issued to private clubs.
   A permit may be issued for the sale of beer for on-premises consumption to
any club that has been licensed by the State of Tennessee Alcoholic Beverage
Commission to sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption. A permit
will not be issued for the sale of beer for consumption on the premises to any
club that has not been licensed by the State of Tennessee Alcoholic Beverage
Commission except a private club, which shall mean an organization of persons
incorporated pursuant to the provisions of the not for profit corporation law
and membership corporation law of the State of Tennessee, and which is the
owner, lessee, or occupant of a building used exclusively for private club
purposes, and which does not traffic in alcoholic beverages for profit and is
solely for the recreational, social, patriotic, political, benevolent or
athletic purpose, but not for pecuniary gain for its members. A member of a
private club shall mean a person, whether a charter member or admitted in
agreement with the by-laws of the private club, who has become a bona fide
member thereof, who maintains his membership by the payment of his annual dues
in a bona fide manner and in accordance with the by-laws and whose name and
address is entered on the official list of members of the said private club.
Any such private club so obtaining a beer permit shall only do so for the sale
at retail of beer, and shall sell said alcoholic beverage only to its members
and their invited guests and shall not sell the same to the general public
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-412. Permits issued for sale of beer within corporate limits not for
consumption on the premises.
   A beer permit will not be issued for a location to sell beer for off-
premises consumption unless said location is permitted to sale beer by the
provisions of the Cookeville Zoning Code. No beer shall be sold, warehoused, or
distributed from any building other than the one for which the permit is
issued. Beer shall only be sold in the original manufacturer's container
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-413. Sale to anyone under 21 years of age or to intoxicated persons unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any beverage falling within
the provisions of this chapter to a person in an intoxicated or partially
intoxicated condition. It shall also be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any
beverage falling within the provisions of this chapter to a person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years except to members of the armed forces while on
active duty status
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-414. Hours and days of sale, etc., regulated.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, corporation, joint
stock company, syndicate, or association to offer for sale or sell beer within
the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee, between the hours of 3:00 A.M.
and 8:00 A.M. Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 3:00 A.M. and
10:00 A.M. on Sunday. No such beverages shall be consumed or opened for
consumption on or about any premises where beer is sold within the corporate
limits of Cookeville, Tennessee, in either bottle, glass, or other container
after 3:15 A.M.
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #O22-08-18, August
2022)
8-415. Permittee not to allow anyone under 21 years of age to loiter, possess,
or consume alcoholic beverages inside the premises.
   It shall be unlawful for the management of any place where any beverage
falling within the provisions of this title is sold, to allow anyone under
twenty-one (21) years of age to loiter inside the premises, or to allow anyone
under twenty-one (21) years of age to possess or consume any beverage falling
within the provisions of this title inside the premises. The burden of
ascertaining the age of customers under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall
be upon the owner or operator of such place of business
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-416. Unlawful for anyone under 21 years of age to misrepresent age.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person under twenty-one (21)
years of age to knowingly misrepresent his age in order to obtain or purchase
beer within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, or to
remain in a location where beer is legally being sold under the provisions of
this chapter and where persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years are not
allowed to loiter
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-417. Prohibited sexual or pornographic conduct/enforcement.
   Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-4-204, and as subsequently amended, is hereby
adopted so as to be applicable to all sales of beer for on-premises
consumption, which are regulated by the said code when such sales are conducted
within the corporate limits of Cookeville, Tennessee. It is the intent of the
city council that Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-4-204, and as subsequently
amended, shall be effective in Cookeville, Tennessee, the same as if said code
sections were copied herein verbatim. The officers of the Cookeville Police
Department are hereby empowered to conduct investigations into alleged
violations of any provisions of this section, and shall report such violations
to the city manager for appropriate action
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-418. The ABCB is vested with the authority to conduct hearings on revocation
or suspension of beer permits issued under this chapter.
   The ABCB of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, is vested with full and
complete power to investigate charges against any permit holder who is cited to
appear and show cause why his and/or its permit should not be suspended or
revoked for the violation of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions
of the state beer laws of the State of Tennessee. Complaints filed against any
permit holder for the purpose of suspending or revoking such permit shall be
made in writing and filed with the ABCB. When the ABCB shall have reason to
believe that any permit holder shall have violated any of the provisions of
this chapter or any of the provisions of the Tennessee Code Annotated, title
57, chapter 4, and as subsequently amended, the ABCB is authorized, in its
discretion, to notify the permittee of said violations and to cite said
permittee by written notice to appear and show cause why its permit should not
be suspended or revoked for such violations. Said notice to appear and show
cause shall state the alleged violations charged and shall be served upon
permittee either by registered mail or by a member of the Police Department of
the City of Cookeville. The notice shall be served upon the permittee at least
ten (10) days before the date of the hearing. At the hearing, the ABCB shall
publicly hear the evidence both in support of the charges and on behalf of the
permittee. After such hearing, if the charges are sustained by the evidence the
ABCB may, in its discretion suspend or revoke said permit. The action of the
ABCB in all such hearings shall be final, subject only to review by the court
as provided in the Tennessee Code Annotated, § title 57, chapter 4, and as
subsequently amended. When a permit is revoked, no new permit shall be issued
hereunder for the sale of beer at the same location, until the expiration of
one (1) year from the date said revocation becomes final. In the event any
person or persons, firm, corporation, joint stock company, syndicate, or
association has its beer permit revoked for a third violation of the provisions
of this chapter or the provisions of the Tennessee Code Annotated, § title 57,
chapter 4, and as subsequently amended, then that business shall not be granted
a beer permit under the provisions of this chapter until the expirations of
three (3) years from the date said revocation becomes final. Pursuant to
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 57-4-202(b), and as subsequently amended, upon
suspension of an establishment's beer permit, the ABCB may also suspend the
establishment's authority to sell alcoholic beverages for the same period of
time. The ABCB shall serve notice of the suspension on the Tennessee Alcoholic
Beverage Commission, which shall review that suspension within thirty (30) days
of receipt of such notice, and render a decision affirming or reversing such
suspension. Failure of the alcoholic beverage commission to act within thirty
(30) days shall be construed as an affirmation of such suspension. The
alcoholic beverage control board, may, at the time it imposes a revocation or
suspension, offer a permit holder the alternative of paying a civil penalty not
to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each offense of
making or permitting to be made any sales to minors, or a civil penalty not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for any other offense. If the civil
penalty is offered as an alternative to revocation or suspension, the holder
shall have seven (7) days within which to pay the civil penalty before the
revocation or suspension shall be imposed. If the civil penalty is paid within
that time, the revocation or suspension shall be deemed withdrawn
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-419. Permits not required for certain retail and wholesale beer
establishments.
   No business holding a lawful and valid permit from the Putnam County
Quarterly Court or the Putnam County Beer Board for the sale of beer at retail
or for the storage or warehousing of beer whose place of business described in
said permit which has been annexed and incorporated into the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, need apply for a city permit for the
sale, storage, or warehousing of beer. Any business holding such an existing
permit shall be exempt from the requirements herein of obtaining a city permit.
Any business holding such an existing permit shall observe and be bound by all
the rules and regulations contained in the above provisions relative to the
sale and storage of beer within the city limits of the City of Cookeville,
Tennessee
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-420. Violations.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter relative to the conducting
of beer business as regulated herein shall be a misdemeanor punishable under
the general penalty clause for this code
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-421. Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality in this title.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this title are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
title shall be declared unconstitutional or illegal by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs and sections of this title since the same would have been enacted by
the ABCB without incorporation in this title of any such unconstitutional or
illegal phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section
(as added by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011)
8-422. Special events permits.
   A permit to sell beer may be obtained from the city clerk for special events
not to exceed three (3) days in duration. An applicant for a special events
permit must meet all requirements for an on-premise beer permit except such an
event may be permitted without being located in a permanent structure, and
shall not have to comply with §§
8-408 and
8-410 of this code. A special events permit fee in the amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per twenty-four (24) hour period shall be paid to the city
clerk upon application for such permit. A special events permit holder shall
not be required to pay the privilege tax established in §
8-404 of this code. Special events permits may only be issued to bona fide
charitable or nonprofit organizations as defined in Tennessee Code Annotated, §
57-4-102, and as subsequently amended, and to the City of Cookeville. Special
events permits shall not be issued for the sale, storage or manufacture of beer
on any municipal property, right-of-way, or street, except at special events in
the Cookeville Performing Arts Center and at City of Cookeville conceived and
produced events at the Performance Pavilion at Dogwood Park. (as added by Ord.
#011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #O23-12-23, January 2024)
CHAPTER 5
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND PUBLIC STREETS
SECTION
8-501. Special event alcoholic beverage permit
8-502. Eligibility
8-503. Authorized locations
8-504. Property/business owner notification
8-505. Permit application required
8-506. Liability insurance
8-507. Event requirements
8-508. Penalties for noncompliance
8-501. Special Event Alcoholic Beverage Permit Required.
The consumption of alcoholic beverages on public properties and public streets
shall only be permitted with the issuance of a Special Event Alcoholic Beverage
Permit complying with the provisions of this Chapter, or at special events in
the Cookeville Performing Arts Center and at City of Cookeville conceived and
produced events at the Performance Pavilion at Dogwood Park, or on properties
owned by Tennessee Tech University on its main campus and the golf course owned
by the TTU Foundation. (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-502. Eligibility. 
Only verifiable non-profit organizations are eligible to apply for a special
event permit involving the consumption of alcoholic beverages on public
property or public streets. For the purposes of this Chapter, “non-profit
organization” shall mean any corporation which has been recognized as exempt
from federal taxes under Section 501 (c) (3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26
U.S.C. Section 501 (c) (3). (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-503. Authorized Locations.
A special event permit for the consumption of alcoholic beverages on public
properties and public streets may be only issued for the following locations:
   (1)   Putnam County Fairgrounds (current or any future location) with the
approval of the Putnam County Commission.
   (2)   Leslie Town Centre including the contiguous parking lot with the
approval of the Public Building Authority. (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August
2024)
8-504. Property/Business Owner Notification Required.
The non-profit organization applying for a special event permit involving the
consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property or public streets shall
verify that all property/business owners with frontage along a public street
requested to be location of the event have been notified. This verification
shall be by property address along the street, or portion of street, to be
closed for the event and shall be limited to one (1) authorized representative
per property address. Verification can be accomplished through a downtown
organization approved by the City Clerk, or the non-profit organization may
submit signatures from each address verifying they have been notified. (as
added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-505. Permit Application Required. 
   (1)   An application for a special event permit for the consumption of
alcoholic beverages on public properties or public streets shall be filed with
the office of the City Clerk. The application shall be filed a minimum of sixty
(60) days prior to the date of the event. A nonrefundable processing fee of
$100.00 shall be submitted with the application. The following information
shall be provided with the application:
      (a)   Name of non-profit organization applying.
      (b)   Proof of non-profit 501(c) (3) status.
      (c)   Name of organization representative responsible for alcohol at the
event.
      (d)   Copy of responsible representative's government issued photo ID.
      (e)   Requested location for the event on public property or a public
street.
      (f)   Schedule for closing and opening a public street.
      (g)   Number of tickets to be sold for alcohol consumption.
      (h)   Copy of Tennessee ABC Special Occasion License for events with wine
or liquor.
      (i)   Certificate of insurance as specified in Section 8-506.
      (j)   Verification of notification by address as specified in Section 8-
504.
      (k)   Verification of availability of private restrooms or the provision
of portable toilets.
   (2)   The City Clerk shall review the application and required information
for completeness and accuracy and shall notify the applicant within ten (10)
business days from the date of submittal if the permit is issued, denied, or
whether additional or corrected information is necessary to process the
application. If additional or corrected information is required, then the City
Clerk shall notify the applicant within ten (10) business days from the date of
resubmittal if the permit is issued. (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-506. Liability Insurance Required. 
The non-profit organization applying for a special event permit involving the
consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property or public streets shall
provide proof of liability insurance, including alcohol liability, with a
minimum coverage of $1 million and with the City of Cookeville named as an
additional insured. (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-507. Event Requirements.
The following requirements shall apply for any special event involving the
consumption of alcoholic beverages on public properties or public streets:
   (1)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be in non-glass containers.
   (2)   The portion of any public street approved for the event shall be
partitioned from the portion remaining open with barricades or fencing. Signage
shall be installed on the perimeter where alcohol consumption is allowed.
Barricades, fencing, and signage shall be provided by the organization
responsible for the event.
   (3)   Public sidewalks shall remain open and unobstructed and pedestrian
access shall not be impeded to any business or residential property located
along a public street closed for a special event involving the consumption of
alcoholic beverages.
   (4)   All events shall be ticketed with the use of arm or wrist bands
required for the consumption of alcohol. Cash sales of alcohol by the drink are
prohibited.
   (5)   The number of tickets sold for any event involving a street closure
shall not exceed 2,500.
   (6)   Ticket holders shall be limited to no more than two (2) servings of
alcoholic beverages per hour provided the provisions of Section (9) below are
met. A serving is defined as 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine or 1.5 ounces
of liquor.
   (7)   Alcohol shall not be served at events before 10:00 am or after 10:00
pm.
   (8)   When approved under the provisions of this Chapter, public properties,
other than public streets, may be utilized for an event involving consumption
of alcohol for a maximum of seventy-two (72) consecutive hours. No public
street shall be closed for more than twelve (12) consecutive hours for an event
involving consumption of alcohol.
   (9)   Alcohol shall not be served to anyone displaying signs of
intoxication.
   (10)   Alcohol shall not be served to anyone under the age of twenty-one
(21).
   (11)   Pours of liquor and wine shall comply with all applicable state laws.
   (12)   For events involving the consumption of wine or liquor, servers shall
have their TN ABC Server Permit.
   (13)   All trash and debris shall be removed from any public properties or
public streets used for an event.
   (14)   Portable toilets shall be provided when the availability of private
restrooms cannot be verified.
   (15)   Event security shall be provided at a ratio of 1 per 250 expected
attendees and shall be provided by the non-profit organization. Event security
shall be off-duty certified police officers.
   (16)   No public street, or portion of public street, shall be closed more
than four (4) times during a calendar year and no more than once during any
calendar month for an event involving the consumption of alcohol. (as added by
Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
8-508. Penalties for Noncompliance.
Organizations failing to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, the
Cookeville Municipal Code, or any local or state laws; or whose events have
created a nuisance; shall not be eligible to receive a future special event
permit involving the consumption of alcoholic beverages on public property or
public streets for a minimum of two (2) years. A longer, or even permanent, ban
may be established by the City Manager due to severity of municipal code
violations at an event. Organizations banned from receiving future special
event alcoholic beverage permits shall be notified by the City Clerk and
provided the basis for the ban. (as added by Ord. #O24-08-20, August 2024)
TITLE 9
BUSINESS, PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ETC. 1
1   Municipal code references
   Building, plumbing, wiring and housing regulations:
title 12.
   Junkyards:
title 13.
   Liquor and beer regulations:
title 8.
   Noise reductions:
title 11, chapter 2.
   Zoning:
title 14.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   MISCELLANEOUS.
      
2.   PEDDLERS, ETC.
      
3.   CHARITABLE SOLICITORS.
      
4.   TAXICABS.
      
5.   POOL ROOMS.
      
6.   LABOR ORGANIZERS AND PROMOTERS AND LABOR SOLICITORS.
      
7.   GARAGE SALES.
      
8.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
      
9.   CABLE TELEVISION.
      
10.   EPHEDRINE AND EPHEDRINE RELATED PRODUCTS.
      
11.   FARMER'S MARKET
      
12.   MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
CHAPTER 1
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION
   
9-101.   "Closing out" sales.
9-101. "Closing out" sales.
   Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-55-401 through 6-55-413, are hereby adopted
so as to be applicable to all sales which are regulated by said code sections
when such sales are conducted within the corporate limits of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
   For the purpose of complying with the terms and conditions of said code
sections the City Clerk of Cookeville, Tennessee, is hereby designated as the
proper person to perform all the duties and obligations placed upon the
"commissioner."
   It is the intent of the city council that the said code §§ 6-55-401 through
6-55-413, inclusive, shall be effective in Cookeville, Tennessee, the same as
if said code sections were copied herein verbatim.
(1970 Code, § 5-102)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, ETC. 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Privilege taxes:
title 5, chapter 3.
SECTION
   
9-201.   Permit required.
   
9-202.   Exemptions.
   
9-203.   Application for permit.
   
9-204.   Issuance or refusal of permit.
   
9-205.   Temporary sales permit.
   
9-206.   Bond.
   
9-207.   Loud noises and speaking devices.
   
9-208.   Use of streets/sidewalks.
   
9-209.   Exhibition of permit.
   
9-210.   Enforcement and penalties.
   
9-211.   Revocation or suspension of permit.
   
9-212.   Reapplication.
   
9-213.   Expiration and renewal of permit.
9-201. Permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor (selling door to door for
immediate or for future delivery), or temporary sales vendor, to ply his trade
within the corporate limits without first obtaining a permit in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and any other city ordinance. No permit shall be
transferable.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-202. Exemptions.
   The terms of this chapter shall not be applicable to persons selling at
wholesale to dealers, nor newspaper carriers, nor to bona fide merchants who
merely deliver goods in the regular course of business, nor to bona fide local
charitable, religious, patriotic, philanthropic, governmental, literary/
educational organizations, or to any vendor participating in a bona fide
charitable fundraising event. Persons selling homegrown items, who, in fact,
themselves produced the products and have not been purchased for resale, or
persons having a valid, current City of Cookeville business license are exempt
from fees/bond only.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000, modified)
9-203. Application for permit.
   Applicants applying for a permit under this chapter shall file a sworn,
written application with the city clerk's office containing the following
information and such other pertinent information as may be required:
   (1)   Name, date of birth, and social security number.
   (2)   Driver's license or other personal identification.
   (3)   Home address.
   (4)   Local address, if different from home address.
   (5)   Name, address and phone number of corporation, company, or
organization the applicant is representing.
   (6)   A copy of a "Tennessee Certificate of Registration" for the collection
of state and local sales or use taxes for sale of tangible personal property or
taxable services for customers in Cookeville for each Cookeville location for
which each permit is issued.
   (7)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold.
   (8)   A description of any vehicles, including make and model, license plate
number and county of registration being used while soliciting or peddling.
   (9)   Address of premises to be occupied for the business.
   (10)   Proof of zoning approval from the City of Cookeville Codes
Department.
   (11)   Proof of permission from owner of property that business is to
occupy.
   (12)   The starting date and ending date of operation of the business.
   (13)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of two unrelated references
who can certify as to the applicant's good moral reputation and business
responsibility
   (14)   A sworn statement as to whether the applicant and additional
assistants have been convicted of any crime (felony), or misdemeanor, or for
violating any municipal ordinance; the nature of the offense; and, the
punishment or penalty assessed.
   (15)   The last two (2) cities or towns, if any, where the applicant
transacted the business.
   (16)   An application fee of ten dollars ($10.00), non-refundable, is
required by the City of Cookeville to defray the cost of investigating the
application.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000, modified, as amended by Ord. #004-03-02, April
2004)
9-204. Issuance or refusal of permit.
   Each application shall be investigated by the city clerk's office and police
department. The city clerk's office shall report the results of the
investigation within seventy-two (72) hours.
   Each permit, permittee, or location shall not exceed 180 calendar days
within a calendar year. A fee of $70.00 for a minimum of a fourteen (14) day
period and each additional fourteen (14) day period shall be assessed to
temporary sales vendors, and any peddler, or solicitor. Each applicant must
state and purchase the permit for the full term of their business. If, after
issuance of a permit has expired, no additional permit shall be issued until a
grace period of fourteen (14) days has been honored.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-205. Temporary sales permit.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell on a temporary basis any
consumer item (new or used) or service, within the corporate limits of the City
of Cookeville without first obtaining a "temporary sales permit." For the
purpose of this section a "temporary sales vendor" means any person, persons or
corporation who brings into any premise and exhibits stocks of merchandise
(new, used or handcrafted) to the public for the purpose of selling or offering
to sell merchandise, food/beverages (prepared for consumption), or offering to
provide a service on a seasonal/temporary basis or providing amusement/
entertainment for profit to the public. "Temporary premises" means any public
or quasi-public place, including a hotel, motel, rooming house, storeroom,
building or part of a building, mall, pavilion, county fairgrounds (if not
sponsored by any exceptions listed in §
9-202), park, convention center, tent, parking lot, vacant lot, public streets/
sidewalks (parades and etc. only), railroad car, tractor trailer or motor
vehicle which is temporarily occupied for the purpose of exhibiting stocks of
merchandise (new, used, or handcrafted) and/or providing a service to the
public for profit to any private shareholder or individual. Premises used by a
temporary sales vendor must be cleared of any merchandise/tables/display on the
date their permit expires (in an effort to promote the safety/beauty of this
city). Premises shall not be considered "temporary" if the same person has
conducted business at said premises for more than six (6) consecutive months
(open for a minimum of 3 days per week), and have permanently affixed sanitary
facilities providing for hot/cold water supply attached to an approved water/
sewer system available to the public during all operating hours at the local
address and premises from which the proposed sales are made. Outside flea
markets and temporary display of animals (domestic or agricultural), except
with the local humane society, for sale or free are prohibited.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-206. Bond.
   Every permittee shall file with the city clerk's office a cash bond or other
approved bond (surety bond/company bond) running to the municipality in the
amount of two thousand, five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   The bond shall remain on file in the city clerk's office for a period of one
(1) year and shall be conditioned that the permittee shall comply fully with
all the provisions of the ordinances of the city. It shall guarantee to any
citizen of the city that all money paid as a down payment and/or complete
purchase will be accounted for and applied according to the representations of
the permittee, and shall further guarantee to any citizen of the city doing
business with said permittee that the goods purchased will be delivered and/or
guaranteed according to the representations of the permittee.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-207. Loud noises and speaking devices.
   No permittee, nor any person in his behalf, shall shout, cry out, blow a
horn, ring a bell or use any sound amplifying device upon any of the sidewalks,
streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the city or upon private
premises where sound of sufficient volume (in accordance with
Title 11, §
11-202 of the municipal code) is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of
being plainly heard upon the adjacent sidewalks, streets, alleys, parks, or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares or merchandise which such permittee proposes to sell.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-208. Use of streets/sidewalks.
   No permittee shall have any exclusive right to any location of the public
streets/sidewalks, nor shall any be permitted to operate a "road block" of any
kind, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location thereon, nor shall any
be permitted to operate in a congested area where the operation might impede or
inconvenience the public use of such streets/sidewalks. For the purpose of this
chapter, the judgment of a police officer and/or codes officer, exercised in
good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested and
the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000, modified)
9-209. Exhibition of permit.
   Permittees are required to exhibit their permit at a visible site for the
inspection of any police officer, codes enforcement officer and customer/person
solicited.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-210. Enforcement and penalties.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of all policemen and/or codes officers to see
that the provisions of this chapter and/or any other city ordinance that
pertains are enforced.
   (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter and/or any other
city ordinance shall be punished by a fine of no more than fifty dollars
($50.00).
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000; modified)
9-211. Revocation or suspension of permit.
   (1)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the city council after notice and hearing, for any of the following causes:
      (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statement contained in the
application for permit, or made in the course of carrying on the business of
solicitor, peddler, or temporary sales vendor.
      (b)   Any violation of this chapter or any other city ordinance that
pertains.
      (c)   Conviction of any crime (felony) or misdemeanor.
      (d)   Conducting the business of peddler, solicitor, or temporary sales
vendor, as the case may be, in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety, or general welfare of the public.
      (e)   Enter in or upon any premises or attempt to enter in or upon any
premises wherein a sign or placard bearing the notice "Peddlers or Solicitors
Prohibited," or similar language carrying the same meaning, is located.
      (f)   Enter in or upon any residential premises before 9:00 A.M. or after
dusk.
   (2)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given by the
city clerk in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and
the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the permittee at
his/her last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for
hearing, or it shall be delivered by a police officer or codes enforcement
officer in the same manner as a summons at least three (3) days prior to the
date set for hearing.
   (3)   When reasonably necessary in the public interest the city manager may
suspend a permit pending the revocation hearing.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000, modified)
9-212. Reapplication.
   No permittee whose permit has been revoked shall make further application
until a period of at least one (1) year has elapsed since the last revocation.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
9-213. Expiration and renewal of permit.
   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire in no more
than 180 days within a calendar year. Each application expires December 31st of
the year it was submitted.
(Ord. #000-02-04, March 2000)
CHAPTER 3
CHARITABLE SOLICITORS
SECTION
   
9-301.   Permit required.
   
9-302.   Prerequisites for a permit.
   
9-303.   Denial of a permit.
   
9-304.   Exhibition of permit.
9-301. Permit required.
   No person shall solicit contributions or anything else of value for any real
or alleged charitable or religious purpose without a permit from the city clerk
authorizing such solicitation. Provided, however, that this section shall not
apply to any locally established organization or church operated exclusively
for charitable or religious purposes if the solicitations are conducted
exclusively among the members thereof, voluntarily and without remuneration for
making such solicitations, or if the solicitations are in the form of
collections or contributions at the regular assemblies of any such established
organization or church.
(1970 Code, § 5-301)
9-302. Prerequisites for a permit.
   The city clerk shall issue a permit authorizing charitable or religious
solicitations when, after a reasonable investigation, he finds the following
facts to exist:
   (1)   The applicant has a good character and reputation for honesty and
integrity, or if the applicant is not an individual person, that every member,
managing officer or agent of the applicant has a good character or reputation
for honesty and integrity.
   (2)   The control and supervision of the solicitation will be under
responsible and reliable persons.
   (3)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
   (4)   The solicitation will not be a fraud on the public but will be for a
bona fide charitable or religious purpose.
   (5)   The solicitation is prompted solely by a desire to finance the
charitable cause described by the applicant.
(1970 Code, § 5-302)
9-303. Denial of a permit.
   Any applicant for a permit to make charitable or religious solicitations may
appeal to the city council if he has not been granted a permit within fifteen
(15) days after he makes application therefor.
(1970 Code, § 5-303)
9-304. Exhibition of permit.
   Any solicitor required by this chapter to have a permit shall exhibit such
permit at the request of any policeman or person solicited.
(1970 Code, § 5-304)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Privilege taxes:
title 5, chapter 3.
SECTION
   
9-401.   Definitions.
   
9-402.   Application for taxi business.
   
9-403.   Fee to be charged for each vehicle.
   
9-404.   Fee to be charged for substitution/replacement of vehicles.
   
9-405.   Liability insurance required.
   
9-406.   Mechanical condition of vehicles.
   
9-407.   Inspection of vehicles.
   
9-408.   Designation of taxis.
   
9-409.   License and permit required for drivers.
   
9-410.   Fee to be charged for background investigation.
   
9-411.   Qualifications for driver's permit.
   
9-412.   Accidents.
   
9-413.   Fee for driver's permit.
   
9-414.   Display of driver's permit.
   
9-415.   Revocation or suspension of driver's permit.
   
9-416.   Rules of driver/passenger conduct.
   
9-417.   Vehicle signage.
9-401. Definitions.
   (1)   Definition of “Taxi”. “Taxi” means a motor vehicle regularly engaged
in the business of transporting passengers for hire, donations, gratuity or any
other form of remuneration, having a seating capacity with no more than seven
(7) seats for passengers and not operated on a fixed route.
   (2)   Definition of “Conduct a taxi business”. The term “conduct a taxi
business” as used in this chapter shall be held to mean the use of one (1) or
more taxis within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, by the owner
thereof, for the purpose of carrying passengers for hire, either by driving the
same himself or having same driven by some other person. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb.
2000 as replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-402. Application for taxi business.
   (1)   Before any person, firm or corporation shall conduct a taxi business
in the City of Cookeville, he or she shall file with the Cookeville Police
Department an application for a permit to conduct such business in the city.
Applicants and all partners shall also meet the driver’s permit qualifications
outlined in §
9-411. The application shall include the business name, address and phone
number; applicant name, home address and  phone number; whether the applicant
is an individual, firm, or corporation, and if a firm, the name, home address
and phone number of each member thereof. The applicant will also be responsible
for any other fees that are associated with the application or background
investigation process. The application shall also include the following: the
make, model, vehicle identification number (VIN), and license number of all
vehicles proposed to be used in the business; the color scheme or insignia to
be used to designate the vehicle or vehicles; experience of the applicant in
the transportation of passengers; certification of the mechanical reliability
and cleanliness of the vehicles by a Cookeville Police Department approved
inspector; certification of liability insurance; and such other pertinent
information as may be required on said form, which application shall be sworn
to by the applicant and notarized.
   (2)   All permits for conducting of a taxi business shall be issued and
signed by the Cookeville Police Department. No taxi permits shall be issued for
a longer period than one (1) calendar year. The Cookeville Police Department
may issue a permit for a shorter or probationary period if, in its discretion,
it deems proper and such permit is subject to cancellation at any time by the
Cookeville Police Department. Permits issued under this section are
nontransferable.
   (3)   All permits heretofore issued shall expire on the 31 st day of
December; and, in order to obtain a renewal taxi permit by the 31st day of
December, the applicant must file a renewal application on or before December
1st each year. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that
all fees have been paid and all vehicles have been inspected prior to December
31st of each year so that the application for renewal can be acted upon by the
Cookeville Police Department. Failure to comply with the provisions of this
section shall result in immediate suspension of all permits held by the taxi
owner.
   (4)   No permits, initial or renewal, for a taxi business shall be issued
unless a current business license has been obtained from the City of
Cookeville. Any taxi business that conducts regular business within the
Cookeville city limits must have their office located within the Cookeville
city limits and that office must be located in an area zoned for a taxi
business.
   (5)   Every taxi permitted under this chapter shall post the taxi permit in
such a place in each taxi as to be in full view of all passengers while such
taxi is in operation.
   (6)   The City of Cookeville Police Department shall have authority to issue
administrative regulations that are not in conflict with this chapter governing
the use and operation of taxis. Provided, however, that any owner of a taxi
business, as of the effective date of this chapter, that does not meet the
requirement of §
9-411 (4) may continue to be an owner unless (1) the owner is convicted of a
felony; pleads guilty to a felony; or pleads “no contest” [nolo contendere] to
a felony; or (2) ceases to be an owner. In the event of (1) the owner
immediately forfeits the permit. In the event of (2) the owner must meet all
criteria set forth in §
9-411 to obtain a new permit to be an owner. Nothing in this paragraph may be
construed to permit an owner under this exception to be a driver. (Ord. #000-
02-03, Feb. 2000 as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-403. Fee to be charged for each vehicle.
   At the time of issuance of a permit to operate a taxi business, the holder
of the permit shall pay to the Cookeville Police Department a nonrefundable fee
in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) for each vehicle to be operated as
a taxi. If at any time the holder of a taxi permit shall desire to use any
additional vehicles under the permit, he or she may do so only after he or she
has made application to the Cookeville Police Department for a permit to use
such additional vehicles and he or she shall furnish to the Cookeville Police
Department the same information regarding such additional vehicles as is
required in §
9-402 regarding those vehicles covered by the original permit. The holder of
the permit shall pay to the Cookeville Police Department a nonrefundable, non-
prorated fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) for each additional
vehicle. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000, as amended by Ord. #001-02-01, Feb. 2001,
as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-404. Fee to be charged for substitution/replacement of vehicles.
   If at any time the holder of a taxi permit shall desire to substitute or
replace vehicles under the permit, he or she may do so only after he or she has
made application to the Cookeville Police Department for a permit to use such
vehicle and he or she shall furnish to the Cookeville Police Department the
same information regarding such vehicle as is required in §
9-402 regarding those vehicles covered by the original permit. The holder of
the permit shall pay to the Cookeville Police Department a nonrefundable fee in
the amount of fifty dollars ($50) for the substitution or replacement of each
vehicle. The fee for substitution or replacement will not be prorated. (Ord.
#000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02-01, Feb. 2001, as renumbered
and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-405. Liability insurance required.
   No taxi permit shall be issued or renewed unless there is in full force and
effect a liability insurance policy for all vehicles. This insurance policy
must be approved and filed with the Cookeville Police Department before any
taxi permits are issued. The insurance policy for each vehicle shall be in the
amounts of not less than $100,000 for bodily injury or death per person,
$300,000 for bodily injury or death per accident and $100,000 property damage.
The insurance policy required by this section shall contain a provision that it
shall not be canceled unless after at least twenty (20) days written notice is
given by the insurer to both the insured and the Cookeville Police Department.
(Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02-01, Feb. 2001, as
renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-406. Mechanical condition of vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit a taxi owned or
controlled by him to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of
Cookeville unless such taxi is equipped with proper brakes, front and rear
lights, safe tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror and windshield wipers,
all of which shall conform to the requirements of the state motor vehicle law.
Each taxi shall be equipped with a handle or latch or other opening device
attached to each door of the passenger compartment so that such doors may be
operated by the passenger from the inside of the taxi without the intervention
or assistance of the driver. Each taxi shall be equipped with seat belts for
each passenger, a State of Tennessee approved rear-facing child passenger
restraint system for any child weighing twenty (20) pounds or less, a State of
Tennessee approved forward-facing child passenger restraint system for any
child one (1) to three (3) years of age weighing greater than twenty (20)
pounds, and a belt positioning booster seat system for any child four (4) to
eight (8) years of age measuring less than four feet, nine inches (4'9") in
height. The motor and all the mechanical parts shall be kept in such condition
or repair as may be reasonably necessary to provide for the safety of the
public and the continuous satisfactory operation of the taxi. (Ord. #000-02-03,
Feb. 2000 as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-407. Inspection of vehicles.
   (1)   All taxis shall be inspected at least annually to ensure that they
comply with the requirements of this chapter. The chief of police will
designate the date, time and by whom the inspections shall be made.
   (2)   A police officer is authorized by this chapter to stop a taxi
operating on the streets of the City of Cookeville when the mechanical
appearance of the vehicle so warrants or to inspect said vehicle for compliance
with this chapter. If said officer finds the vehicle to be in noncompliance
with this chapter, he or she shall cite the owner and declare the taxi
inoperable and not to operate on the streets of the municipality until all
defects have been corrected and evidence of inspection as provided in §
9-407 is provided to the chief of police. (Ord. #000-02- 03, Feb. 2000 as
renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-408. Designation of taxis.
   Each taxi shall bear on the outside of each front door an identifying
company name and the word “taxi” if not part of the company name. The marking
shall be of sufficient size to be clearly visible from a distance of twenty
(20) feet. Each taxi shall be designated by the permit number assigned by the
Cookeville Police Department and such number shall also appear on each side of
the taxi. Each taxi shall be equipped with a light on its top that identifies
the vehicle as a taxi. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02-
01, Feb. 2001, as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-409. License and permit required for drivers.
   (1)   No person shall drive a taxi unless he or she is in possession of a
State of Tennessee Commercial Driver’s License or a class “D” operator’s
license with an “F” endorsement and a taxi driver’s permit issued by the
Cookeville Police Department.
   (2)   No driver’s permit shall be issued for a longer period than one (1)
calendar year. Said driver's permit will be renewable with the taxi business
date as provided in §
9-402. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02- 01, Feb. 2001,
as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-410. Fee to be charged for background investigation.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit to operate a taxi, the applicant shall pay
to the Cookeville Police Department a nonrefundable applicable fee to cover the
cost of the background investigation. The fees shall not exceed the fee levied
by the Tennessee Applicant Processing Services (TAPS). (Ord. #011-03-03, April
2011)
9-411. Qualifications for driver's permit.
   No person shall be issued a taxi driver’s permit or a taxi business permit
unless he or she passes a background investigation. A written application must
be submitted to the Cookeville Police Department on forms provided for that
purpose. The application shall contain such pertinent information as deemed
necessary by the Cookeville Police Department. If the application is deemed to
be incomplete or contains incorrect or false information, it shall be summarily
denied. Applicants must meet the following qualifications:
   (1)   Be at least twenty-one (21) years of age at the time of application;
   (2)   Be a U.S. Citizen or if a resident alien, have a current work permit
or other valid United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
documentation;
   (3)   Hold a license as required in §
9-409;
   (4)   Be of good character and not have been convicted of, pled guilty to or
entered a plea of “no contest” to a felony within the preceding ten (10) years;
   (5)   Is not listed on the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation Sex Offender
Registry;
   (6)   Not have been convicted of, pled guilty to or entered a plea of “no
contest” for drunk driving, driving under the influence of an intoxicant or
drug in the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application for
the driver’s permit;
   (7)   Not have more than three (3) moving traffic violation convictions
within the three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application for
the driver’s permit; or
   (8)   Not been involved in more than two (2) traffic accidents during a
period of three (3) years immediately preceding the date of application for the
driver’s permit. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02-01,
Feb. 2001, and Ord. #08-05-05, May 2008, as replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April
2011)
9-412. Accidents.
   All traffic accidents arising from or in connection with the operation of
taxis shall be reported to the Cookeville Police Department within 24 hours of
the accident. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000 as amended by Ord. #001-02-01, Feb.
2001, modified, as replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-413. Fee for driver's permit.
   A nonrefundable fee of twenty-five dollars ($25) shall be charged for each
original or replacement driver's permit that is issued. The applicant will also
be responsible for any other fees that are associated with the application or
background investigation process. All permits are required to be in possession
of the driver while operating a taxi in the City of Cookeville. The fee for a
driver’s permit will not be prorated. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000, as replaced
by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-414. Display of driver's permit.
   Every driver permitted under this chapter shall post his or her driver’s
permit and rate amounts in such a place in his or her taxi as to be in full
view of all passengers while such driver is operating the taxi. (Ord. #000-02-
03, Feb. 2000, as replaced by Ord. #011-03-03, April 2011)
9-415. Revocation or suspension of driver's permit.
   Driver’s permits are non-transferable and the Cookeville Police Department
may revoke or suspend any taxi driver’s permit for violation of traffic
regulations, for violation of this chapter or when the driver ceases to possess
the qualifications as prescribed in §
9-411. (Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000, as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-
03, April 2011)
9-416. Rules of driver conduct.
   (1)   Taxi drivers shall deliver their passengers to their destinations by
the most direct available route.
   (2)   No person shall be admitted to a taxi already occupied by a passenger
without the consent of such other passenger.
   (3)   Drivers of taxis shall not receive or discharge passengers in the
roadway but shall pull up to the right hand sidewalk as nearly as possible, or
in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right hand side of the street and
there receive or discharge passengers, except upon a one-way street, where
passengers may be received or discharged at either the right or left sidewalk,
or side of the street in the absence of a sidewalk.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for any taxi driver, while on duty, to be under
the influence of, or to consume any intoxicating beverage or drug; to use
profane or obscene language; to shout or call to prospective passengers; to
unnecessarily blow the automobile horn; or to otherwise unreasonably disturb
the peace, quiet and tranquility of the municipality in any way.
   (5)   No driver shall engage in selling or delivering any intoxicating
liquors, alcoholic beverages, illegal drugs or any illegal act, business or
purpose.
   (6)   Driver and passengers shall comply with Tennessee Code Annotated 39-
17-1802 “Non-Smoker Protection Act” which explicitly prohibits smoking in
public and private transportation including taxicabs.
   (7)   It shall be unlawful to park any taxi on any street except in such
places that have been specifically designated and marked by the municipality
for the use of taxis. It is provided, however, that taxis may stop upon any
street for the purpose of picking up or discharging passengers if such stops
are made in such manner as not to unreasonably interfere with or obstruct other
traffic and provided the passenger loading or discharging is promptly
accomplished.
   (8)   Any vehicle designated as taxi and marked to identify it as a taxi
shall not be operated by anyone without a valid taxi driver’s permit for any
purpose other than a taxi.
(Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000, as renumbered and replaced by Ord. #011-03-03,
April 2011)
9-417. Vehicle Signage.  
   Each taxicab may affix one (1) advertising assembly to the top of the
vehicle roof subject to the following conditions:
   (1)   Shall not obscure any required vehicle markings.
   (2)   Shall not add more than 18 inches to the overall height of the
vehicle.
   (3)   Shall not extend beyond the width or length of the roof.
   (4)   Shall be securely mounted to the top of the vehicle and shall not
create a safety issue.
   (5)   Shall be static; no digital, electronic or any signage involving
movement shall be permitted.
   (6)   Sign Permit from the Department of Codes shall be obtained.
(Ord. #O17-03-04, May, 2017)
CHAPTER 5
POOL ROOMS 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Privilege taxes:
title 5, chapter 3.
SECTION
   
9-501.   Hours of operation regulated.
   
9-502.   Minors to be kept out; exception.
9-501. Hours of operation regulated.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, maintain, conduct, or operate
any place where pool tables or billiard tables are kept for public use or hire
at any time between the hours of 12:00 P.M. and 6:00 A.M. week days, and
anytime between the hours of 12 P.M. and 12 A.M. on Sunday.
(1970 Code, § 5-501)
9-502. Minors to be kept out; exception.
   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged regularly, or otherwise, in
keeping billiard, bagatelle, or pool rooms or tables, their employees, agents,
servants, or other persons for them, knowingly to permit any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to play on said tables at any game of billiards,
bagatelle, pool, or other games requiring the use of cue and balls, without
first having obtained the written consent of the father and mother of such
minor, if living; if the father is dead, then the mother, guardian, or other
person having legal control of such minor; or if the minor be in attendance as
a student at some literary institution, then the written consent of the
principal or person in charge of such school; provided that this section shall
not apply to the use of billiards, bagatelle, and pool tables in private
residences.
(1970 Code, § 5-502)
CHAPTER 6
LABOR ORGANIZERS AND PROMOTERS AND LABOR SOLICITORS
SECTION
   
9-601.   Definitions and classifications.
   
9-602.   Labor organizers and promoters to be licensed.
   
9-603.   Labor solicitors to be licensed.
   
9-604.   Labor organizations to use only licensed representatives.
   
9-605.   Applications for licenses to be filed with city clerk.
   
9-606.   Council to act upon applications; issuance of licenses.
   
9-607.   Expiration date of licenses.
   
9-608.   License fees.
   
9-609.   Revocation of licenses.
9-601. Definitions and classifications.
   As used in this chapter the terms "labor organization," "labor organizer and
promoter," and "labor solicitor," shall be specifically defined as hereinafter
set forth. Other words and terms shall be construed to embrace the meanings in
popular usage.
   (1)   Labor organization. The term "labor organization" means any
organization of any kind, or any agency or employee representation committee or
plan in which employees participate, and which exists for the purpose, in whole
or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes,
wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conditions of work, and which
requires payment of fees, dues, or anything of value as a condition of
membership therein.
   (2)   Labor organizer and promoter. "Labor organizer and promoter," as used
herein, means each person who, while as officer, agent, or employee of any
"labor organization," as herein defined, for pecuniary or financial
compensation, solicits any employee or employees to become a member or members
of any "labor organization" in which he or she is an officer, agent, or
employee, or any division or affiliate of such "labor organization." Any such
person doing so shall be considered as carrying on or conducting the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of "labor organizer and promoter."
   (3)   Labor solicitor. "Labor solicitor," as used herein, means each person
who, while as an officer, agent, employee, or member of any "labor
organization," as herein defined, for pecuniary or financial compensation,
solicits any employee or employees to become a member or members of any "labor
organization" in which he or she is not an officer, agent, employee, or member,
or any division or affiliate of any such "labor organization." Any such person
doing so shall be considered as carrying on or conducting the business, trade,
occupation, or profession of "labor solicitor." (1970 Code, § 5-601)
9-602. Labor organizers and promoters to be licensed.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or conduct the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of "labor organizer and promoter," as above
defined and classified, within the City of Cookeville or on property belonging
thereto, without a license authorizing same, which license shall be issued in
the manner and under the conditions hereinafter enumerated, and in full force
and effect at said time.
(1970 Code, § 5-602)
9-603. Labor solicitors to be licensed.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or conduct the business,
trade, occupation, or profession of "labor solicitor," as above defined and
classified, within the City of Cookeville or on property belonging thereto,
without a license authorizing same, which license shall be issued in the manner
and under the conditions hereinafter enumerated, and in full force and effect
at said time.
(1970 Code, § 5-603)
9-604. Labor organizations to use only licensed representatives.
   It shall be unlawful for any "labor organization," as herein defined, to
carry on or conduct in any manner whatsoever, within the City of Cookeville or
on property belonging thereto, the business, trade, occupation, or profession
of "labor organizer and promoter," as above defined or "labor solicitor," as
above defined, by or through any official, agent, or employee, who receives
pecuniary compensation for his or her services as such "labor organizer and
promoter" or "labor solicitor," and who does not at said time have a license
authorizing same, which license shall be issued in the manner and under the
conditions hereinafter enumerated, and in full force and effect at said time.
(1970 Code, § 5-604)
9-605. Applications for licenses to be filed with city clerk.
   No license shall be issued until an application shall have been filed
therefor. Each application for a license hereunder to carry on or conduct the
business, trade, occupation, or profession either of "labor organizer and
promoter," as defined herein, or of "labor solicitor," as defined herein,
within the City of Cookeville or on property belonging thereto, shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the City Clerk of the City of Cookeville,
Tennessee, and shall contain the following information:
   (1)   Name, age, permanent address, local address, and place of birth of
applicant.
   (2)   Whether applicant is a citizen of the United States.
   (3)   Whether he or she is an official, agent, or employee of any labor
organization; and, if so, the name and address of such organization.
   (4)   Name and address of an agent of such labor organization on whom
process may be served.
   (5)   How long applicant has acted in such capacity, and at what places.
   (6)   Whether applicant has ever been convicted of any felony; if so, what
and where.
   (7)   If ever convicted, have rights of citizenship been restored.
   The application shall be signed by the applicant, and applicant shall,
within Putnam County, Tennessee, before some officer authorized to administer
oaths, state under oath that all the information given in said application is
true.
   The application shall contain such certification by such officer at the time
it is filed.
(1970 Code, § 5-605)
9-606. Council to act upon applications; issuance of licenses.
   The application hereinabove referred to shall be submitted by the city clerk
to the mayor and city council at the next meeting of said council after the
date said application is filed. If the application gives the information
required in §
9-605 the city council shall, by order at the same meeting, direct the license
applied for to be issued to the applicant for the period hereinafter set forth,
and the city clerk shall issue same immediately, upon receipt of the license
fee hereinafter stipulated.
(1970 Code, § 5-606)
9-607. Expiration date of licenses.
   Any license issued hereunder shall expire at twelve o'clock P.M. on the 30th
day of April succeeding the date of its issue.
(1970 Code, § 5-607)
9-608. License fees.
   The license fee for carrying on the business, trade, occupation, or
profession of "labor organizer and promoter," or "labor solicitor," as herein
defined and classified, shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for the period of
time between the date of issuance of said license and twelve o'clock P.M. on
the 30th day of April succeeding the date of its issue.
   All sums received as fees for licenses issued hereunder shall be placed in
the general fund of the city and used in payment of general operating expenses
of the city.
(1970 Code, § 5-608)
9-609. Revocation of licenses.
   Any license issued hereunder may be revoked by the Mayor and City Council of
the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, for the following reasons:
   (1)   False information submitted in the application for license, or as a
part thereof.
   (2)   Conviction of licensee of a felony either within or without the State
of Tennessee.
(1970 Code, § 5-609)
CHAPTER 7
GARAGE SALES
SECTION
   
9-701.   Definitions.
   
9-702.   Property permitted to be sold.
   
9-703.   Permit required.
   
9-704.   Permit procedure.
   
9-705.   Permit conditions.
   
9-706.   Hours of operation.
   
9-707.   Exceptions.
   
9-708.   Display of sale property.
   
9-709.   Display of permit.
   
9-710.   Advertising.
   
9-711.   Persons exempted from chapter.
   
9-712.   Violations and penalty.
9-701. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein.
   (1)   "Garage sales" shall mean and include all general sales, open to the
public, conducted from or on any premises in any residential or nonresidential
zone, as defined by the Zoning Code of the City of Cookeville, for the purpose
of disposing of personal property including, but not limited to, all sales
entitled "garage," "lawn," "yard," "attic," "porch," "room," "backyard,"
"patio," or "rummage" sale. This definition does not include the operation of
such businesses carried on in a nonresidential zone where the person conducting
the sale does so on a regular day-to-day basis. This definition shall not
include a situation where no more than five (5) specific items or articles are
held out for sale and all media advertisements of such sale specifically names
those items to be sold.
   (2)   "Personal property" shall mean property which is owned, utilized and
maintained by an individual or members of his or her residence and acquired in
the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It does not include
merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-702. Property permitted to be sold.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, under
authority granted by this chapter, property other than personal property.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-703. Permit required.
   No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the individuals desiring
to conduct such sale obtains a permit therefore from the City of Cookeville
Codes Department. Members of more than one residence may join in obtaining a
permit for a garage sale to be conducted at the residence of one of them,
however, such permit shall be considered as having been issued for each and all
such residences. Permits may be obtained for any nonresidential location.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-704. Permit procedure.
   (1)   Application. The applicant or applicants for a garage sale permit
shall file a written application with the codes department setting forth the
following information:
      (a)   Full name and address of applicant or applicants.
      (b)   The location at which the proposed garage sale is to be held.
      (c)   The date or dates upon which the sale shall be held.
      (d)   The date or dates of any garage sales by the same applicant or
applicants within the current calendar year.
      (e)   A statement that the property to be sold was owned by the applicant
as his own personal property and was neither acquired nor consigned for the
purpose of resale.
      (f)   A statement that the applicant will fully comply with all city sign
regulations and understands that no sign shall be posted on any utility pole,
street sign, or other public property.
      (g)   A statement that the applicant will fully comply with this and all
other applicable ordinances and laws.
   (2)   Permit fee. An administrative processing fee of two dollars ($2.00)
for the issuance of such permit shall accompany the application.
   (3)   Issuance of permit. Upon the applicant complying with the terms of
this chapter, the codes department shall issue a permit.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-705. Permit conditions.
   (1)   The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such
garage sale.
   (2)   No more than three (3) such permits may be issued to one residential
location, residence and/or family household during any calendar year (January 1
through December 31).
   (3)   There shall be a minimum of thirty (30) days between sales at any (1)
residence, premise or location. If members of more than one residence join in
requesting a permit, then such permit shall be considered as having been issued
for each and all of such residences.
   (4)   No more than three (3) permits may be issued for any nonresidential
location during any calendar year.
   (5)   Failure to comply with the provisions for advertising in §
9-710 shall render a residence, premise or location ineligible for additional
sales during the same calendar year.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-706. Hours of operation.
   Garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than 6:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
on three (3) consecutive days.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-707. Exceptions.
   (1)   Inclement weather. If a garage sale is not held on the dates for which
the permit is issued or is terminated during the first day of the sale because
of inclement weather conditions, and an affidavit by the permit holder to this
effect is submitted, the codes department shall issue another permit to the
applicant for a garage sale to be conducted at the same location within thirty
(30) days from the date when the first sale was to be held.
   No additional permit fee is required.
   (2)   Fourth sale permitted. A fourth garage sale shall be permitted in a
calendar year if satisfactory proof of a bona fide change in ownership of the
real property is first presented to the codes department.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-708. Display of sale property.
   Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the residence, in
a garage, carport, and/or in a front, side or year yard, but only in such
areas. No personal property offered for sale at a garage sale shall be
displayed in any public right-of-way. A vehicle offered for sale may be
displayed on a permanently constructed driveway within such front or side yard.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-709. Display of permit.
   Any permit in possession of the holder or holders of a garage sale shall be
posted on the premises in a conspicuous place so as to be seen by the public,
or any city official.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-710. Advertising.
   The provisions of the general sign regulations of the City of Cookeville
Zoning Code shall be met and include the following:
   (1)   No sign shall exceed six (6) feet in sign face area.
   (2)   No sign shall be placed more than five (5) days prior to sale.
   (3)   All signs must be removed within three (3) days after the sale is
completed.
   (4)   No sign shall be placed on any utility pole, street sign, or any other
public property.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-711. Persons exempted from chapter.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following:
   (1)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order of process of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (2)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   (3)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment on a regular, day-to-day basis from or at the place of business
wherein such sale would be permitted by the City of Cookeville Zoning Code, or
under the protection of the nonconforming use section thereof, or any other
sale conducted by a manufacturer, dealer or vendor in which sale would be
conducted from properly zoned premises, and not otherwise prohibited by other
ordinances.
   (4)   Any sale conducted in a non-residential zoning district by any bona
fide non-profit, charitable, eleemosynary, educational, cultural or
governmental institution or organization; provided, however, that the burden of
establishing the exemption under this subsection shall be on the organization
or institution claiming such exemption.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
9-712. Violations and penalty.
   Any person found guilty of violating the terms of this chapter shall be
subject to a penalty of up to fifty dollars ($50) for each offense.
(Ord. #002-07-22, Sept. 2002)
CHAPTER 8
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION
   
9-801.   Purpose; findings and rationale.
   
9-802.   Definitions.
   
9-803.   License required.
   
9-804.   Issuance of license.
   
9-805.   Fees.
   
9-806.   Inspection.
   
9-807.   Expiration and renewal of license.
   
9-808.   Suspension.
   
9-809.   Revocation.
   
9-810.   Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal.
   
9-811.   Transfer of license.
   
9-812.   Hours of operation.
   
9-813.   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises.
   
9-814.   Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring, and interior lighting
requirements.
   
9-815.   Penalties and enforcement.
   
9-816.   Applicability of chapter to existing businesses.
   
9-817.   Prohibited conduct.
   
9-818.   Scienter required to prove violation or business licensee liability.
   
9-819.   Failure of city to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee
rights.
   
9-820.   Severability.
   
9-821.   Conflicting code provisions repealed.
   
9-822.   Effective date.
9-801. Purpose; findings and rationale.
   (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually oriented
businesses within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the
purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content or
reasonable access to any communicative materials, including sexually oriented
materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene material.
   (2)   Findings and rationale. Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the city council, and on findings, interpretations, and narrowing constructions
incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541
U.S. 774 (2004); City of Los Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425
(2002); City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City of Renton v.
Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres,
427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); NY State Liquor Authority v.
Bellanca, 452 U.S. 714 (1981); and Richland Bookmart, Inc. v. Knox County, 555
F.3d 512, 2009 WL 330995 (6th Cir. Feb. 12, 2009); Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, 526 F.3d 291 (6th Cir. 2008); 729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal
Court, 515 F.3d 485 (6th Cir. 2008); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc. v. Metropolitan
Gov't of Nashville & Davidson County, 466 F.3d 391 (6th Cir. 2006); Deja Vu of
Cincinnati, L.L.C., v. Union Township Bd. of Trustees, 411 F.3d 777 (6th Cir.
2005) (en banc); DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir.
1997); Brandywine, Inc. v. City of Richmond, 359 F.3d 830 (6th Cir. 2004);
Richland Bookmart v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Deja Vu of
Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson
County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001); Currence v. City of Cincinnati, 28 Fed.
Appx. 438 (6th Cir. Jan. 24, 2002); In re Tennessee Public Indecency Statute,
172 F.3d 873 (6th Cir. Jan. 13, 1999)(table); Bamon Corp. v. City of Dayton,
923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of Akron, 40 F.3d
129 (6th Cir. 1994); State ex rel. Gibbons v. Jackson, 16 S.W.3d 797 (Tenn. Ct.
App. 1999); City of Cleveland v. Wade, 206 S.W.3d 51 (Tenn. Ct. App. 2006);
State ex rel. Dossett v. Richland Bookmart, Inc., 1990 WL 209331 (Tenn. Ct.
App. 1990); Silver Video USA v. Summers, 2006 WL 3114220 (Tenn. Ct. App. 2006);
Daytona Grand, Inc. v. City of Daytona Beach, 490 F.3d 860 (11th Cir. 2007);
Williams v. Morgan, 478 F.3d 1316 (11th Cir. 2007); H&A Land Corp. v. City of
Kennedale, 480 F.3d 336 (5th Cir. 2007); Illinois One News, Inc. v. City of
Marshall, 477 F.3d 461 (7th Cir. 2007); G.M. Enterprises, Inc. v. Town of St.
Joseph, 350 F.3d 631 (7th Cir. 2003); Spokane Arcade, Inc. v. City of Spokane,
75 F.3d 663 (9th Cir. 1996); Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d
702 (7th Cir. 2003); Center for Fair Public Policy v. Maricopa County, 336 F.3d
1153 (9th Cir. 2003); O'Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210
(10th Cir. 1990); Z.J. Gifts D-2, LLC v. City of Aurora, 136 FJd 683 (10th Cir.
1998); ILQ Investments, Inc. v. City of Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir.
1994); World Wide Video of Spokane, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 227 F. Supp. 2d
1143 (E.D. Wash. 2002); Broadway Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D. Tenn.
1986); Bright Lights, Inc. v. City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky.
1993); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F. Supp. 2d 710 (N.D. Ohio
1998); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery County, 256 F. Supp.
2d 385 (D. Md. 2003); Kentucky Restaurant Concepts, Inc. v. City of Louisville
and Jefferson County, 209 F. Supp. 2d 672 (W.D. Ky. 2002); World Wide Video of
Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004); City of New
York v. Hommes, 724 N.E.2d 368 (N.Y. 1999); For the People Theatres of NY, Inc.
v. City of New York, 793 N.Y.S.2d 356 (N.Y. App. Div. 2005); Taylor v. State,
No. 01-01-00505-CR, 2002 WL 1722154 (Tex. App. July 25, 2002); Gammoh v. City
of La Habra, 395 F.3d 1114 (9th Cir. 2005); Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. v. City of
Littleton, Civil Action No. 99-N-1696, Memorandum Decision and Order (D. Colo.
March 31, 2001); People ex rel. Deters v. The Lion's Den, Inc., Case No. 04-CH-
26, Modified Permanent Injunction Order (Ill. Fourth Judicial Circuit,
Effingham County, July 13, 2005); Reliable Consultants, Inc. v. City of
Kennedale, No. 4:05-CV-166-A, Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law (N.D.
Tex. May 26, 2005); and based upon reports concerning secondary effects
occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses, including, but not
limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986; Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove,
California - 1991; Houston, Texas - 1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979,
Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-2003; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier,
California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994;
Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas -
1997; Ft. Worth, Texas - 2004; Kennedale, Texas - 2005; Greensboro, North
Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; Jackson County, Missouri - 2008;
Louisville, Kentucky - 2004; New York, New York Times Square - 1994; and the
Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually
Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), the city council
finds:
      (a)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (b)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the city's rationale for this chapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, the city's interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the city. The city finds
that the cases and documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably
believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
   The city hereby adopts and incorporates herein its stated findings and
legislative record related to the adverse secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses, including the judicial opinions and reports related to
such secondary effects.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-802. Definitions.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined in the sections
hereunder shall have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless
a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
   (1)   "Adult bookstore or adult video store" means a commercial
establishment which, as one (1) of its principal business activities, offers
for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one (1) or more of the
following: books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, digital
video discs, slides, or other visual representations which are characterized by
their emphasis upon the display of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas." A "principal business activity" exists where the commercial
establishment meets any one (1) or more of the following criteria:
      (a)   At least thirty-five percent (35%) of the establishment's displayed
merchandise consists of said items; or
      (b)   At least thirty-five percent (35%) of the wholesale value of the
establishment's displayed merchandise consists of said items; or
      (c)   At least thirty-five percent (35%) of the retail value (defined as
the price charged to customers) of the establishment's displayed merchandise
consists of said items; or
      (d)   At least thirty-five percent (35%) of the establishment's revenues
derive from the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of said items;
or
      (e)   The establishment maintains at least thirty-five percent (35%) of
its floor space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items (aisles and
walkways used to access said items shall be included in "floor space"
maintained for the display, sale, or rental of said items); or
      (f)   The establishment maintains at least five hundred square feet (500
sq. ft.) of its floor space for the display, sale, and/or rental of said items
(aisles and walkways used to browse said items shall be included in "floor
space" maintained for the display, sale, or rental of said items); or
      (g)   The establishment regularly offers for sale or rental at least two
thousand (2,000) of said items; or
      (h)   The establishment regularly features said items and regularly
advertises itself or holds itself out, by using "adult," "adults-only," "XXX,"
"sex," "erotic," "novelties," or substantially similar language, as an
establishment that caters to adult sexual interests; or
      (i)   The establishment maintains an "adult arcade," which means any
place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or
slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled still
or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are
regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at
any one (1) time, and where the images so displayed are characterized by their
emphasis upon matter exhibiting "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   (2)   "Adult cabaret" means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, regardless of whether alcoholic
beverages are served, which regularly features live conduct characterized by
semi-nudity. No establishment shall avoid classification as an adult cabaret by
offering or featuring nudity.
   (3)   "Adult motion picture theater" means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly
shown to more than five (5) persons for any form of consideration.
   (4)   "Characterized by" means describing the essential character or quality
of an item. As applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a
sexually oriented business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials
rated NC-17 or R by the Motion Picture Association of America.
   (5)   "City" means Cookeville, Tennessee.
   (6)   "Employ, employee, and employment" describe and pertain to any person
who performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a
full time, part time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. Employee
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
   (7)   "Establish or establishment" means and includes any of the following:
      (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (c)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business.
   (8)   "Floor space" means the floor area inside a sexually oriented business
that is visible or accessible to patrons for any reason, excluding restrooms.
   (9)   "Hearing officer" means an attorney, not otherwise employed by the
city, who is licensed to practice law in Tennessee, and retained to serve as an
independent tribunal to conduct hearings under this chapter.
   (10)   "Influential interest" means any of the following: (a) The actual
power to operate the sexually oriented business or control the operation,
management or policies of the sexually oriented business or legal entity which
operates the sexually oriented business;
      (b)   Ownership of a financial interest of thirty percent (30%) or more
of a business or of any class of voting securities of a business; or
      (c)   Holding an office (e.g., president, vice president, secretary,
treasurer, managing member, managing director, etc.) in a legal entity which
operates the sexually oriented business.
   (11)   "Licensee" means a person in whose name a license to operate a
sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual or
individuals listed as an applicant on the application for a sexually oriented
business license. In the case of an "employee," it shall mean the person in
whose name the sexually oriented business employee license has been issued.
   (12)   "Nudity" means the showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or the
showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part
of the nipple and areola.
   (13)   "Operator" means any person on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business regardless of
whether that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
   (14)   "Person" means an individual, proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, association, or other legal entity.
   (15)   "Premises" means the real property upon which the sexually oriented
business is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon,
including, but not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds,
private walkways, and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto,
under the ownership, control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in
the application for a sexually oriented business license.
   (16)   "Regularly" means the consistent and repeated doing of an act on an
ongoing basis.
   (17)   "Semi-nude or semi-nudity" means the showing of the female breast
below a horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the
width of the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female
buttocks. This definition shall include the lower portion of the human female
breast, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female
breasts exhibited by a bikini, dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar
wearing apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   (18)   "Semi-nude model studio" means a place where persons regularly appear
in a state of semi-nudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons. This definition does not apply to any place where
persons appearing in a state of semi-nudity did so in a class operated:
      (a)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (b)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (c)   In a structure:
         (i)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
         (ii)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class.
   (19)   "Sexual device" means any three (3) dimensional object designed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals, anus, buttocks, female
breast, or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall
include devices commonly known as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, cock rings,
anal beads, butt plugs, nipple clamps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include
devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases
or for preventing pregnancy.
   (20)   "Sexual device shop" means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices. This definition shall not be construed to include any
pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, any establishment primarily dedicated to
providing medical or healthcare products or services, or any establishment that
does not limit access to its premises or a portion of its premises to adults
only.
   (21)   "Sexually oriented business" means an "adult bookstore or adult video
store," an "adult cabaret," an "adult motion picture theater," a "semi-nude
model studio," or a "sexual device shop."
   (22)   "Specified anatomical areas" means and includes: (a) Less than
completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic region; buttock; and
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
      (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (23)   "Specified criminal activity" means any of the following specified
crimes for which less than five (5) years has elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date:
      (a)   Rape, aggravated rape, aggravated sexual assault, public indecency,
statutory rape, rape of a child, sexual exploitation of a minor, indecent
exposure;
      (b)   Prostitution, patronizing prostitution, promoting prostitution;
      (c)   Assault;
      (d)   Obscenity;
      (e)   Dealing in controlled substances;
      (f)   Racketeering;
      (g)   Any attempt, solicitation, or conspiracy to commit one (1) of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (h)   Any offense in another jurisdiction that, had the predicate act(s)
been committed in Tennessee, would have constituted any of the foregoing
offenses.
   (24)   "Specified sexual activity" means any of the following:
      (a)   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
      (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in (a) above.
   (25)   "Transfer of ownership or control" of a sexually oriented business
means any of the following:
      (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
   (26)   "Viewing room" means the room, booth, or area where a patron of a
sexually oriented business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a
film, videocassette, digital video disc, or other video reproduction.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as amended by Ord. #003-05-07, May 2003, and
replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-803. License required.
   (1)   Business license. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
sexually oriented business in the city without a valid sexually oriented
business license.
   (2)   Employee license. It shall be unlawful for any person to be an
"employee," as defined in this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the
city without a valid sexually oriented business employee license, except that a
person who is a licensee under a valid sexually oriented business license shall
not be required to also obtain a sexually oriented business employee license.
   (3)   Application. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or
a sexually oriented business employee license shall file in person at the
office of the city clerk a completed application made on a form provided by the
city clerk. A sexually oriented business may designate an individual with an
influential interest in the business to file its application for a sexually
oriented business license in person on behalf of the business. The application
shall be signed as required by subsection (4) herein and shall be notarized. An
application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each person
required to sign the application, the information and/or items required in this
subsection (3), accompanied by the appropriate licensing fee:
      (a)   The applicant's full legal name and any other names used by the
applicant in the preceding five (5) years.
      (b)   Current business address or another mailing address for the
applicant.
      (c)   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license, a picture
identification document containing the applicant's date of birth issued by a
governmental agency, or a copy of a birth certificate accompanied by a picture
identification document issued by a governmental agency.
      (d)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business.
      (e)   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
      (f)   A statement of whether an applicant has been convicted of or has
pled guilty or nolo contendere to a specified criminal activity as defined in
this chapter, and if so, each specified criminal activity involved, including
the date, place, and jurisdiction of each as well as the dates of conviction
and release from confinement, where applicable.
      (g)   A statement of whether any sexually oriented business in which an
applicant has had an influential interest, has, in the previous five (5) years
(and at a time during which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (i)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (ii)   Been subject to a court order of closure or padlocking.
      (h)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business and a
statement of floor area visible or accessible to patrons for any reason,
excluding restrooms. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared
but shall be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the
interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (6").
Applicants who are required to comply with the stage, booth, and/or room
configuration requirements of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating
that the setup and configuration of the premises meets the requirements of the
applicable regulations. The city clerk may waive the requirements of this
subsection (h) for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a legal
description and a sketch or diagram that was previously submitted and certifies
that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was
prepared.
   The information provided pursuant to this subsection (3) shall be
supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
city clerk within ten (10) working days of a change of circumstances which
would render the information originally submitted false or incomplete.
   (4)   Signature. A person who seeks a sexually oriented business employee
license under this section shall sign the application for a license. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license under this section is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who seeks a sexually oriented business license is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the sexually oriented
business or in a legal entity that controls the sexually oriented business
shall sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be
qualified under this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if a license is granted.
   (5)   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the office
of the city clerk on a confidential basis, and such information may be
disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by
governing law or court order. Any information protected by the right to privacy
as recognized by state or federal law shall be redacted prior to such
disclosure.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-804. Issuance of license.
   (1)   Business license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business license, the city clerk shall immediately issue a
temporary license to the applicant if the completed application is from a
preexisting sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating in the city
and the completed application, on its face, indicates that the applicant is
entitled to an annual sexually oriented business license. The temporary license
shall expire upon the final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual
license. Within twenty (20) days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented
business license application, the city clerk shall either issue a license to
the applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant. The city clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (a)   An applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      (b)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (c)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (d)   The sexually oriented business, as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with the location requirements of the Cookeville Municipal
Code, Cookeville Zoning Code, or Tennessee state law.
      (e)   Any sexually oriented business in which an applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five (5) years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (i)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (ii)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (f)   An applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (2)   Employee license. Upon the filing of a completed application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the city clerk shall immediately
issue a temporary license to the applicant if the applicant seeks licensure to
work in a licensed sexually oriented business and the completed application, on
its face, indicates that the applicant is entitled to an annual sexually
oriented business employee license. The temporary license shall expire upon the
final decision of the city to deny or grant an annual license. Within twenty
(20) days of the filing of a completed sexually oriented business employee
license application, the city clerk shall either issue a license to the
applicant or issue a written notice of intent to deny a license to the
applicant. The city clerk shall issue a license unless:
      (a)   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      (b)   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by this
chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
      (c)   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      (d)   Any sexually oriented business in which the applicant has had an
influential interest, has, in the previous five (5) years (and at a time during
which the applicant had the influential interest):
         (i)   Been declared by a court of law to be a nuisance; or
         (ii)   Been subject to an order of closure or padlocking.
      (e)   The applicant has been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo
contendere to a specified criminal activity, as defined in this chapter.
   (3)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to
the licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be read at any time
that the business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. A sexually
oriented business employee shall keep the employee's license on his or her
person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or performing.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-805. Fees.
   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented business
licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as follows:
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the initial fee for a sexually oriented
business license and fifty dollars ($50.00) for annual renewal; fifty dollars
($50.00) for the initial sexually oriented business employee license and
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for annual renewal.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-806. Inspection.
   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees shall
permit the city clerk and his or her agents to inspect, from time to time on an
occasional basis, the portions of the sexually oriented business premises where
patrons are permitted, for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the specific
regulations of this chapter, during those times when the sexually oriented
business is occupied by patrons or is open to the public. This section shall be
narrowly construed by the city to authorize reasonable inspections of the
licensed premises pursuant to this chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or
excessive pattern of inspections.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-807. Expiration and renewal of license.
   (1)   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one (1) calendar year
from the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license
may be renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in
this chapter.
   (2)   Application for renewal of an annual license should be made at least
ninety (90) days before the expiration date of the current annual license, and
when made less than ninety (90) days before the expiration date, the expiration
of the current license will not be affected.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as amended by Ord. #003-05-07, May 2003, and
replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-808. Suspension.
   (1)   The city clerk shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
if the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated
this chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other
person to violate this chapter.
   (2)   The city clerk shall issue a written notice of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business employee license for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days if the employee licensee has knowingly or recklessly violated this
chapter.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-809. Revocation.
   (1)   The city clerk shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if the licensee knowingly or recklessly violates this
chapter or has knowingly or recklessly allowed an employee or any other person
to violate this chapter and a suspension of the licensee's license has become
effective within the previous twelve (12) month period.
   (2)   The city clerk shall issue a written notice of intent to revoke a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license, as applicable, if:
      (a)   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license or the sexually oriented
business employee license;
      (b)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises of the
sexually oriented business;
      (c)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (d)   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked;
      (e)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity or specified criminal activity to occur in or on the
premises of the sexually oriented business; or
      (f)   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly allowed a person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to consume alcohol or appear in a state of semi-
nudity or nudity on the premises of the sexually oriented business.
   (3)   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   (4)   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in this
chapter, the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one (1)
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
or sexually oriented business employee license for one (1) year from the date
revocation becomes effective.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-810. Hearing; license denial, suspension, revocation; appeal.
   (1)   When the city clerk issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke a license, the city clerk shall immediately send such
notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or licensee (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the city clerk for the
respondent. The notice shall also set forth the following: the respondent shall
have ten (10) days after the delivery of the written notice to submit, at the
office of the city clerk, a written request for a hearing. If the respondent
does not request a hearing within said ten (10) days, the city clerk's written
notice shall become a final denial, suspension, or revocation, as the case may
be, on the thirtieth (30th) day after it is issued, and shall be subject to the
provisions of subsection (2) of this section.
   If the respondent does make a written request for a hearing within said ten
(10) days, then the city clerk shall, within ten (10) days after the submission
of the request, send a notice to the respondent indicating the date, time, and
place of the hearing. The hearing shall be conducted not less than ten (10)
days nor more than twenty (20) days after the date that the hearing notice is
issued.
   The city shall provide for the hearing to be transcribed.
   At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to present all of
respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of the city clerk's
witnesses. The city clerk shall also be represented by counsel, and shall bear
the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking the
license.
   The hearing shall take no longer than two (2) days, unless extended at the
request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due process and proper
administration of justice. The hearing officer shall issue a final written
decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant to this chapter,
to the respondent within five (5) days after the hearing.
   If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the decision
shall advise the respondent of the right to appeal such decision to a court of
competent jurisdiction, and the decision shall not become effective until the
thirtieth (30th) day after it is rendered. If the hearing officer's decision
finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension, or revocation of the
license, the hearing officer shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the
decision, order the city clerk to immediately withdraw the intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke the license and to notify the respondent in writing by
certified mail of such action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the city
clerk shall contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   (2)   If any court action challenging a licensing decision is initiated, the
city shall prepare and transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing within
thirty (30) days after receiving written notice of the filing of the court
action.
   The city shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the
action, shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall
facilitate prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply
to any sexually oriented business that is lawfully operating as a sexually
oriented business, or any sexually oriented business employee that is lawfully
employed as a sexually oriented business employee, on the date on which the
completed business or employee application, as applicable, is filed with the
city clerk: upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain,
or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement of any denial, suspension, or
revocation of a temporary license or annual license, the city clerk shall
immediately issue the respondent a provisional license. The provisional license
shall allow the respondent to continue operation of the sexually oriented
business or to continue employment as a sexually oriented business employee and
will expire upon the court's entry of a judgment on the respondent's appeal or
other action to restrain or otherwise enjoin the city's enforcement.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-811. Transfer of license.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-812. Hours of operation.
   No sexually oriented business shall be open to do business before 8:00 A.M.
Monday through Saturday, and no such establishment shall remain open after 12:
00 A.M., Monday through Saturday.
   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business on any Sunday or a
legal holiday as designated in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 15-1-101.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-813. Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films on
premises.
   (1)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business which exhibits in a booth or viewing room on the premises, through any
mechanical or electronic image-producing device, a film, video cassette,
digital video disc, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis on
the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
comply with the following requirements.
      (a)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, booths or viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, and restrooms,
and shall designate all portions of the premises in which patrons will not be
permitted. Restrooms shall not contain equipment for displaying films, video
cassettes, digital video discs, or other video reproductions. The diagram shall
also designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches (6"). The city clerk may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (b)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted.
      (c)   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      (d)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no specified sexual activity occurs in or on
the licensed premises.
      (e)   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well-lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         (i)   That the occupancy of viewing rooms less than one hundred fifty
(150) square feet is limited to one (1) person.
         (ii)   That specified sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         (iii)   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is
prohibited.
         (iv)   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         (v)   That violations of these regulations are unlawful.
      (f)   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in (e)(i) though (iv) above.
      (g)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator's station shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area.
If the premises has two (2) or more operator's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one (1) of the
operator's stations. The view required in this paragraph must be by direct line
of sight from the operator's station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated in each operator's
station at all times that any patron is on the premises. It shall be the duty
of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this paragraph remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
      (h)   It shall be the duty of the operator to ensure that no porous
materials are used for any wall, floor, or seat in any booth or viewing room.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under subsections (1)
(a) through (1)(h) to knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (3)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly enter or remain in a viewing
room less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area that is occupied by
any other patron.
   (4)   No patron shall knowingly or recklessly be or remain within one foot
(1') of any other patron while in a viewing room that is one hundred fifty
(150) square feet or larger in area.
   (5)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly make any hole or opening
between viewing rooms.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-814. Loitering, exterior lighting and monitoring, and interior lighting
requirements.
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to:
      (a)   Ensure that at least two (2) conspicuous signs stating that no
loitering is permitted on the premises are posted on the premises;
      (b)   Designate one (1) or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on the premises by visually inspecting the premises at least once every
ninety (90) minutes or inspecting the premises by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      (c)   Provide lighting to the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. Said lighting shall be of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one (1) foot candle as measured at
the floor level. If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate continuously
at all times that the premises are open for business.
   The monitors shall be installed within an operator's station.
   (2)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to ensure that the interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which customers are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot candles as
measured at the floor level and the illumination must be maintained at all
times that any customer is present in or on the premises.
   (3)   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or similar
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right-of-way.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly or recklessly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-815. Penalties and enforcement.
   (1)   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a violation, and, upon conviction, shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day a violation
is committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be fined as such.
   (2)   The city's legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute civil
proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to enjoin, prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings shall be brought in
the name of the city, provided, however, that nothing in this section and no
action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude such criminal or
administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other provisions of this
chapter, or any of the laws in force in the city or to exempt anyone violating
this code or any part of the said laws from any penalty which may be incurred.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-816. Applicability of chapter to existing businesses.
   All preexisting sexually oriented businesses lawfully operating in the city
in compliance with all state and local laws prior to the effective date of this
chapter, and all sexually oriented business employees working in the city prior
to the effective date of this chapter, are hereby granted a de facto temporary
license to continue operation or employment for a period of ninety (90) days
following the effective date of this chapter. By the end of said ninety (90)
days, all sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees
must conform to and abide by the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. #096-10-24, Oct. 1996, as replaced by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-817. Prohibited conduct.
   (1)   No patron, employee, or any other person shall knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or
engage in a specified sexual activity.
   (2)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear in a semi-nude condition unless the person is an employee who,
while semi-nude, remains at least six feet (6') from all patrons and on a stage
at least eighteen inches (18") from the floor in a room of at least six hundred
(600) square feet.
   (3)   No employee who appears semi-nude in a sexually oriented business
shall knowingly or intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer
on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (4)   No person shall possess, use, or consume alcoholic beverages on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (5)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly allow a person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to be or remain on the premises of a sexually oriented
business.
   (6)   No operator or licensee of a sexually oriented business shall
knowingly violate the regulations in this section or knowingly allow an
employee or any other person to violate the regulations in this section.
   (7)   A sign in a form to be prescribed by the city clerk, and summarizing
the provisions of subsections (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5), shall be posted near
the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to patrons upon entry. No person shall cover, obstruct, or
obscure said sign
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-818. Scienter required to prove violation or business licensee liability.
   This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter,
an act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-819. Failure of city to meet deadline not to risk applicant/licensee rights.
   In the event that a city official is required to act or to do a thing
pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to act or to do
such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent the
exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the city official under this chapter, and not completed in the time
prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval by the
city of an applicant or licensee's application for a sexually oriented business
license or a sexually oriented business employee's license (including a
renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or employee
allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the deadline for the
city's action has passed
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-820. Severability.
   This chapter and each section and provision of said chapter hereunder, are
hereby declared to be independent divisions and subdivisions and, not
withstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to
be the controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter,
or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid,
the remaining sections or provisions and the application of such sections and
provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to which it is held
invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that such
sections and provisions would have been passed independently of such section or
provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural aspect of this chapter
be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the enforceability of the
substantive aspects of this chapter
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-821. Conflicting code provisions repealed.
   Any provision(s) in the Cookeville Municipal Code specifically in conflict
with any provision in this chapter is hereby deemed inoperative and repealed
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
9-822. Effective date.
   The ordinance comprising this chapter shall take effect fourteen (14) days
from and after its final passage
(as added by Ord. #010-01-01, Feb. 2010)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION
   
9-901.   To be furnished under franchise.
9-901. To be furnished under franchise.
   Cable television shall be furnished to the City of Cookeville and its
inhabitants under franchise granted by the City Council of the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee. The rights, powers, duties and obligations of the City
of Cookeville and its inhabitants are clearly stated in the franchise agreement
executed by, and which shall be binding upon the parties concerned. 1
1   For complete details relating to the cable television franchise agreement
see Ord. #545, as amended by Ord. #1023, in the office of the city clerk. See
the assignment executed on April 19, 1967, also of record in the city clerk's
office.
   See also Ord. #094-12-34, Jan. 1995, as amended by Ord. #099-07-17, Sept.
1999, of record in the city clerk's office granting to Rifkin/Tennessee, Ltd.
the right to operate a cable television system in the City of Cookeville.
CHAPTER 10
EPHEDRINE AND EPHEDRINE RELATED PRODUCTS
SECTION
   
9-1001.   Sales regulated.
   
9-1002.   Definitions.
   
9-1003.   Accessibility of products.
   
9-1004.   Exemptions.
   
9-1005.   Employee training.
   
9-1006.   Registration of purchases.
   
9-1007.   Penalties for failure to comply.
9-1001. Sales regulated.
   No person shall sell or deliver, or attempt to sell or deliver, in any
single retail sale, a package that contains more than one hundred tablets of
any product that contains any quantity of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine, or any number of packages that contain a combined total of
three (3) or more grams of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine
whether as the sole active ingredient or in combination products that have less
than therapeutically significant quantities of other active ingredients
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1002. Definitions.
   (1)   The use of the terms "ephedrine," "pseudoephedrine," or
"phenylpropanolamine" in this chapter shall include the salts, optical isomers,
or salts of optical isomers of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and
phenylpropanolamine.
   (2)   The use of the term "retail establishment" in this chapter shall
include any business entity and individual person who sells, offers for sale,
or attempts to sell any product containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine at retail.
   (3)   The use of the term "consumer accessible shelving" in this chapter
shall mean any area of a retail establishment other than a product display area
behind a counter where the public is not permitted, or within a locked display
case or within 6 feet of a register located on a checkout counter
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1003. Accessibility of products.
   All packages of any product containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine, whether as the sole active ingredient or in combination
products that have less than therapeutically significant quantities of other
active ingredients, shall not be displayed and offered for sale in any retail
establishment on consumeraccessible shelving
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1004. Exemptions.
   This chapter shall not apply as follows:
   (1)   To any product labeled pursuant to federal regulations for use only in
children under twelve years of age;
   (2)   To any products that the state department of health, upon application
of a manufacturer, determines has been formulated in such a way as to
effectively prevent its use in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine;
   (3)   To any animal feed products containing ephedrine, or naturally
occurring or herbal ephedra or extract of ephedra, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine; and
   (4)   To the sale or delivery of any product containing ephedrine,
pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine pursuant to the lawful prescription of
a person authorized by state law to prescribe such products
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1005. Employee training.
   Any person who is considered the general owner or operator of a retail
establishment where products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine are available for sale who violates §§
9-1001 or
9-1002 of this chapter shall not be penalized pursuant to this chapter if such
person documents that an employee training program was in place to provide the
employees with information on the local, state, and federal regulations
regarding ephedrine, pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine, and that the
employees had completed the training program
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1006. Registration of purchases.
   (1)   Any retail establishment that sells or delivers, or attempts to sell
or deliver, to a person any product containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine whether as the sole active ingredient or in combination
products that have less than therapeutically significant quantities of other
active ingredients, shall require such person to show proper identification and
to sign a register.
   (2)   The register described in subsection (1) shall be created by any
retail establishment that sells a product or products described in subsection
(1) and shall require at least the following information:
      (a)   The specific quantity of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine purchased;
      (b)   The signature of the purchaser;
      (c)   The name and residential or mailing address of the purchaser; other
than a post office box number;
      (d)   The number of the purchaser's motor vehicle operator's license or
other proper identification at the time of the purchase;
      (e)   The date of such purchase; and
      (f)   The signature of an employee of the retail establishment as witness
to the purchase and identification of the purchaser.
   (3)   The retail establishment shall retain each original register for three
(3) years in a readily presentable and readable manner, and present the
register upon demand by any law enforcement officer or authorized
representative of the district attorney general's office.
   (4)   As used in this section, "proper identification" means a valid motor
vehicle operator's license or other official and valid state-issued
identification of the purchaser that contains a photograph of the purchaser.
   (5)   This section shall not apply to the sell or delivery of any product
containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine by a licensed
pharmacy upon a pharmacist making a good faith determination that the purchase
of the product is for a legitimate medical purpose
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
9-1007. Penalties for failure to comply.
   It is a civil offense to fail to comply with the foregoing regulations. Any
violation of these sections is punishable by civil penalty of up to $50.00.
Each day a violation continues under §
9-1002 above shall constitute a separate offense
(as added by Ord. #003-05-10, June 2003)
CHAPTER 11
FARMER'S MARKET
SECTION
9-1101. Definitions.
9-1102. Application for a farmer's market permit.
9-1103. Rules and regulations.
9-1104. Parking and traffic flow to be designated.
9-1105. Hold harmless and indemnification.
9-1106. Sales taxes and licenses.
9-1107. Permit expiration, renewal, suspension and revocation.
9-1101. Definitions.   
   (1)   Definition of "Farmer's Market". The Farmer's Market ("the market")
for the City of Cookeville ("the city") is located on Mahler Avenue between
First Street and Fourth Street, and is operated by the city to provide a safe
and convenient location for farmers to sell their "home grown goods" as defined
herein.
   (2)   Definition of "home-grown goods". As used in this section, "home-grown
goods" shall mean produce, vegetables, fruits, nuts, plants, ornamentals and
any other product of farm and garden that are grown in the State of Tennessee
or southern Kentucky during its appropriate growing season by farmers, truck
growers, fruit growers and horticulturists who are residents of Putnam County,
or are residents from the fourteen (14) county Upper Cumberland area and
Southern Kentucky as defined in section 9-1103.
   (3)   Definition of "Tennessee Department of Agriculture ("TDA")
requirements". Items such as molasses, honey, eggs, farm fresh frozen meats,
baked goods, jelly, jams and candy must meet the TDA requirements to be offered
for sale at the market. (as added by Ord. O12-03-03, May 2012)
9-1102. Application for a farmer's market permit.  
   (1)   Before any vendor shall occupy any space inside or adjacent to the
market to offer goods for sale, he/she shall complete an application to sell
"home grown goods" at the market. The vendor shall certify that all of his/her
goods are "home-grown" as defined herein, and shall disclose where the home-
grown goods were produced. The vendor shall certify that they have read and
agree to abide by all market rules and regulations. Once the application is
completed and approved by the city, the vendor will be issued a permit to
occupy space at the market. (as added by Ord. O12-03-03, May 2012)
9-1103. Rules and Regulations.
   (1)   Farmers or producers from Putnam County, and residents from the
fourteen (14) county-Upper Cumberland area as follows: Dekalb, Cannon, Clay,
Cumberland, Fentress, Jackson, Macon, Pickett, Overton, Smith, Warren, White,
Van Buren and residents from Clinton, Cumberland, Monroe and Allen counties in
Kentucky are permitted to sell home-grown goods as defined in this chapter.
   (2)   Farmers or producers outside Putnam County shall produce a letter of
certification signed by their Agricultural Extension agent certifying that they
raise and will sell only home-grown goods.
   (3)   All vendors must be registered with the city. Each vendor will be
given a permit to display at the market that is visible to the public.
   (4)   Items such as molasses, honey, eggs, farm fresh frozen meats, and
baked goods, jelly, jams and candy must meet the TDA requirements to be offered
for sale at the market.
   (5)   All TDA regulations governing market sales will be followed.
   (6)   No wholesalers of produce/plants, etc. purchased from wholesalers are
allowed.
   (7)   Parking is on a first-come basis. Only one (1) space per vendor is
permitted. Vendors may arrive or leave at any time during the market hours, but
may not save their parking place if they leave.
   (8)   Vendors shall clean their area and help keep the general market and
the restrooms clean.
   (9)   Market hours are Monday through Sunday from daylight to 6:00 p.m.
   (10)   Permits will only be issued for any vendor to occupy the market
beginning February 1st and will not be issued after November 30th.
   (11)   No permanent displays or installations will be allowed.
   (12)   Rule violators will receive one (1) warning. A second violation will
result in suspension/revocation of the vendor's permit as determined by the
city codes enforcement officer or city police officer. Any suspension or
revocation may be appealed to the City Manager, or his designee, whose decision
is final.
   (13)   No vehicle, trailer, etc. shall be allowed to occupy any portion of
the market for the purpose of pre-empting a position thereon.
   (14)   No vehicle, trailer, equipment, etc. shall be parked on the premises
for the purpose of selling said vehicle, trailer or equipment.
   (15)   All firearms or any other weapons shall be unloaded and kept inside
the vehicles, and out of sight.
   (16)   No homemade vanilla, wine, beer, spirits or any other products
containing alcohol shall be consumed, sold or displayed. (as added by Ord. O12-
03-03, May 2012)
9-1104. Parking and traffic flow to be designated. 
    Parking spaces and lanes shall be marked. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle outside a designated parking space. It shall be
unlawful for any person and/or vehicle to obstruct areas designated for traffic
flow. (as added by Ord. O12-03-03, May 2012)
9-1105. Hold harmless and indemnification. 
   All vendors shall be individually and severally responsible to the City of
Cookeville for any loss, personal injury, deaths, property damage and/or loss,
and any other damage that may occur as a result of the vendors' negligence or
that of its servants, agents, and employees. All vendors shall agree to
indemnify and save the city harmless from any loss, cost, damages, and any
other expenses and costs, including but not limited to, attorney fees and court
costs suffered or incurred by the city. Insurance is not provided to
participants and vendors in the market, and each participant and vendor will be
responsible for providing his/her own liability insurance. (as added by Ord.
O12-03-03, May 2012)
9-1106. Sales taxes and licenses. 
   Each vendor is responsible for collecting sales taxes where applicable, and
any and all licenses and permits required by federal, state and local laws. (as
added by Ord. O12-03-03, May 2012)
9-1107. Permit expiration, renewal, suspension and revocation. 
   Permits issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for the calendar
years in which said permit is issued. All permits expire on December 31st. A
permit may be suspended or revoked by the city codes enforcement officer or by
a city police officer when any of the provisions of this chapter have been
deemed to have been violated. When notified of an alleged violation, the
officer shall investigate the complaint. Any person found to have violated the
provisions of this chapter shall receive at least a written warning, but may,
depending upon the severity of the violation, have his/her permit suspended or
revoked for a period not to exceed one (1) year. The decision of the city codes
enforcement officer or police officer is considered final, but an appeal may be
made within five (5) calendar days to the City Manager or his designee. (as
added by Ord. O12-03-03, May 2012)
CHAPTER 12
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION
9-1201. Definitions.
9-1202. Permit required.
9-1203. Application for permit.
9-1204. Issuance or refusal of permit.
9-1205. Exhibition of permit.
9-1206. Enforcement and penalties.
9-1207. Revocation or suspension of permit.
9-1208. Business license.
9-1209. Special events exemption.
9-1210. Operational requirements.
9-1211. Use of streets/sidewalks.
9-1201. Definitions. 
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section. The word "shall" is always
mandatory and not merely advisory.
   (1)   “Mobile food unit ("MFU")” is an enclosed unit, truck, trailer,
pushcart, smoker or similar vehicle-mounted unit that:
      (a)   Is mobile or capable of being moved by a licensed motor vehicle;
      (b)   Is used for the preparation, sale, or donation of on-site prepared
food; and
      (c)   Is not a pedestrian vendor.
   (2)   “Mobile food vendor ("vendor")” is any individual engaged in the
operation of a MFU; if more than one (1) individual is operating a single MFU,
then vendor shall include all individuals operating such single MFU.
   (3)   “On-site prepared food” means any food or beverage that is served,
packaged, cooked, chopped, sliced, mixed, brewed, frozen, squeezed, or
otherwise prepared on-site within the MFU by a mobile food vendor or other
persons and that may be purchased at the MFU for immediate or later
consumption.
   (4)   “Pedestrian vendor” means any person who demonstrates, gives away,
sells or offers for sale goods, merchandise, souvenirs, novelties, food or
beverages not prepared on-site, flowers or balloons outdoors, and who may carry
or display such goods or transport such goods door to door in a cart or mobile-
type device. Pedestrian vendor must comply with Title 9 Section 201 of the City
of Cookeville Municipal Code.
   (5)   “Public property” means any property owned or maintained by the City
of Cookeville.
   (6)   “Special event” shall mean any event or gathering which occurs on City
property including streets, sidewalks, rights-of-way, parks, parking lots or
public facility or place under the authority of the City. These events include
such things as parades, runs, sporting events, street festivals, shows or
exhibitions.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1202. Permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any mobile food unit to operate within the
corporate limits without first obtaining a permit in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and any other city ordinance.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1203. Application for permit.
   Applicants applying for a permit under this chapter shall file a sworn,
written application with the city clerk's office containing the following
information and such other pertinent information as may be required:
   (1)   Name, date of birth, and social security number.
   (2)   Driver's license or other personal identification.
   (3)   Home address.
   (4)   Local address, if different from home address.
   (5)   Name, address and phone number of corporation, company, or
organization the applicant is representing.
   (6)   A copy of a "Tennessee Certificate of Registration" for the collection
of state and local sales or use taxes for sale of tangible personal property or
taxable services for customers.
   (7)   A copy of a valid business license issued in Tennessee.
   (8)   A description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold.
   (9)   A description of the vehicle being used while in operation, including
make and model, license plate number, copy of valid vehicle liability insurance
certificate, and county of registration.
   (10)   The starting date and ending date of operation of the business for a
thirty (30) day permit.
   (11)   A copy of the current health inspection, if required by the Tennessee
Department of Health for operation of Food Service Establishments.
   (12)   Applicants must submit a spill response plan for approval by the
Public Works Department.
   (13)   All mobile food units shall be inspected and approved by the
Cookeville Codes Department.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1204. Issuance or refusal of permit.
   Applicants may apply for an annual permit or a thirty (30) day permit. Each
application shall be reviewed by the city clerk's office and Codes Department.
Upon satisfaction of inspection and application requirements, The city clerk's
office will issue or deny the permit within five (5) business days.
   (1)   Fees. An application for an annual mobile food vendor permit under
this chapter shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). An annual mobile food vendor permit shall be valid for one
(1) year from date of issuance.
   (2)   An application for a thirty (30) day mobile food vendor permit shall
be accompanied by a fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
   (3)   The city clerk's office shall collect the permit fee. There shall be
no proration of fees. All permit fees are non-refundable. No permit shall be
transferrable.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1205. Exhibition of permit.
   Vendors obtaining a permit are required to exhibit their permit at a visible
site for the inspection of any police officer, codes enforcement officer and
customer/person solicited.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1206. Enforcement and penalties.  
   (1)   It shall be the duty of all police or codes officers to see that the
provisions of this chapter and/or any other city ordinance that pertains are
enforced.
   (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter and/or any other
city ordinance shall be punished by a fine of no more than fifty dollars
($50.00) per day plus applicable court costs.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1207. Revocation or suspension of Permit.
   (1) Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the City Court Judge after notice and hearing for any of the following cases:
      (a)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements contained in the
application for permit, or made in the course of carrying on the business of
mobile food vending.
      (b)   Any violation of this chapter or any other city ordinance, rule or
regulation.
      (c)   Conviction of a felony.
      (d)   Conducting the business of mobile food vending in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
      (e)   Operating or attempting to operate within any single-family zoning
district.
   (2)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a permit shall be given by the
city clerk in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint
and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the vendor at
his or her last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for
hearing, or it shall be delivered by a police officer or codes enforcement
officer in the same manner as a summons at least three (3) days prior to the
date set for hearing.
   (3)   When reasonably necessary the city manager may suspend a permit
pending the revocation hearing.
   (4)   Terms and length of the suspension or revocation will be determined by
the City Court Judge.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1208. Business license.
   A mobile food vendor shall be required to obtain a current business license
to operate in Tennessee.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1209.  Special events exemption.
   A mobile food vendor participating in a special event shall comply with all
rules, regulations and requirements of the event and is exempt from having to
obtain a mobile food vendor permit under this chapter. The special event
sponsor, coordinator or operator shall enforce the rules for the special event.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1210. Operational requirements.
   The following requirements apply to all mobile food units and vendors
operating at any location within the City of Cookeville. Additional
requirements may apply.
   (1)   Compliance with laws. Except as provided herein, mobile food unit
placement and operation must adhere to federal, state, and local laws,
regulations, and policies. Local laws, regulations, and policies include, but
are not limited to the Cookeville Municipal Code and Cookeville Department of
Leisure Services and Public Facilities Policy Manual on Mobile Food Units in
Parks and on City Properties and as subsequently amended.
   (2)   Items for sale. Only food and beverage items may be sold from MFUs,
and the sale or distribution of alcoholic beverages is prohibited. A vendor may
sell or distribute merchandise from the MFU only if the merchandise bears the
logo of the vendor or MFU; all other merchandise sales are prohibited.
   (3)   Letter of permission. Vendors operating on private property shall
obtain a letter from the property owner stating that the vendor has permission
to vend on the property. The vendor shall keep a copy of the permission letter
on the MFU while operating. The vendor shall produce the letter upon the
request of any city official acting in an enforcement capacity.
   (4)   Methods of support. MFUs shall be free-standing and shall not use
stakes, rods, or any method of support that must be drilled, driven, or
otherwise fixed, into or onto asphalt, pavement, curbs, sidewalks, or
buildings.
   (5)   Operating distance. No MFU shall operate within five (5) feet of
another MFU or ten (10) feet of any structure. The distance will be measured
from the corner of the mobile food unit to the nearest corner of a structure or
other mobile food unit.
   (6)   Operating hours. Operating a mobile food unit between the hours of12:
00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. shall be prohibited.
   (7)   Signs and flashing lights. A MFU must adhere to all city ordinances in
regards to signage.
   (8)   Sound amplification. A MFU or vendor shall not use sound amplification
equipment for any purpose and shall comply with all city noise ordinances and
regulations.
   (9)   Special events. During a special event, vendors must obtain written
permission to operate within the boundaries of the special event from the
special event sponsor, coordinator or operator and comply with all rules,
regulations and requirements of the special event. A police officer or codes
officer is authorized to inspect permission forms for special events.
   (10)   Spills. To prevent discharges into the storm drain system and natural
waterways, each MFU shall comply with the storm water regulations of the City
of Cookeville. In addition, each MFU shall have a spill response plan and kit
onboard to contain and remedy any discharge from the MFU.
   (11)   Utilities. No power or water required for the mobile food unit shall
be drawn from the public right-of-way or public property unless specifically
authorized in writing by the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (12)   Electrical service from private property.
      (a)   MFUs operating on private property may use electrical power from
the property being occupied or an adjacent property only when written
permission has been given by an owner of the property providing electricity to
the mobile food unit.
      (b)   The property owner shall provide written acknowledgement to the
Codes Department that they accept all responsibility resulting from the use of
an electric connection by the MFU.
      (c)   The electrical connection point to be utilized by an MFU shall be
inspected and approved by the Codes Department, as provided for in this
chapter.
      (d)   No power cord, cable, or equipment shall be extended on or across
any public right-of-way, alley, sidewalk, or other public property.
      (e)   Electrical requirements. Any vendor operating under this chapter or
property owner providing electrical service to a mobile food unit shall comply
with the requirements of the National Electrical Code as adopted by the City of
Cookeville for regulating electrical installations.
      (f)   Inspection of electrical service. In order to be used by MFUs, all
new and existing electrical service components on private property require
inspection and approval by the Codes Department.
         (i)   Permit for new electrical service. If an electrical component is
newly installed on the private property, the installation shall be completed by
a licensed electrician who possesses a City of Cookeville electrical license
and must obtain all necessary permits prior to installation.
         (ii)   Safety inspection of existing electrical service. If a private
property has an electrical service component for use by MFUs, the Codes
Department shall conduct a safety inspection of the component. The cost of this
safety inspection is in accordance with the City of Cookeville electrical fees.
Once the initial electrical safety inspection is approved, annual safety
inspections are not required.
   (13)   Waste storage and disposal. Vendors shall supply, in a prominent
location, trash containers sufficient in size to collect all waste generated by
customers and staff of the MFU. The vendor shall keep the area around the MFU
clear of litter and debris at all times. All trash and debris generated by
customers and staff shall be collected by the vendor and deposited in their
trash or recycling container and removed from the site by the vendor. The
vendor may not use city trash or recycling receptacles.
   (14)   Fire safety. Mobile food units must be equipped with an appropriate
fire extinguisher as applicable to the mobile food unit’s operation.
   (15)   Sight distance/safety. Mobile food units must be positioned so as not
to block or obstruct the view of motorist or pedestrian at any intersection or
any point of ingress/egress. A police or codes officer is authorized to require
the mobile food unit to move if in their reasonable judgement the mobile food
unit is creating a safety issue for the public.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
9-1211.  Use of streets/sidewalks.
   No vendor who has obtained a permit shall have any right to operate at any
location on public property, including but not limited to the public streets/
sidewalks, public parks, public parking lots or spaces, nor shall any be
permitted to operate a "road block" of any kind, nor shall any be permitted a
stationary location thereon, nor shall any be permitted to operate in a
congested area where the operation might impede or inconvenience the public use
of such streets/sidewalks, unless as otherwise may be permitted as a special
event. Use of public property may be granted subject to compliance with the
Department of Leisure Services and Public Facilities Policy Manual on Mobile
Food Units in Parks and on City Properties and as subsequently amended. For the
purpose of this chapter, the judgement of a police officer and/or a codes
officer, exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the
area is congested and the public impeded or inconvenienced.
(as added by Ord. #O16-10-23, March 2017, as replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
November, 2018)
TITLE 10
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
1   Charter reference: §
1.05(r).
   CHAPTER
      
1.   IN GENERAL.
      
2.   DOGS AND CATS.
CHAPTER 1
IN GENERAL
SECTION
   
10-101.   Running at large prohibited.
   
10-102.   Keeping near a residence or business restricted.
   
10-103.   Pen or enclosure to be kept clean.
   
10-104.   Adequate food, water, and shelter, etc., to be provided.
   
10-105.   Keeping in such manner as to become a nuisance prohibited.
   
10-106.   Cruel treatment prohibited.
   
10-107.   Seizure and disposition of animals.
   
10-108.   Inspections of premises.
   
10-109.   City to be bird sanctuary.
10-101. Running at large prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or negligently permit any
animal or fowl owned by him/her or under his/her control to run at large within
the corporate limits.
(1970 Code, § 3-101, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-102. Keeping near a residence or business restricted.
   No person shall keep any animal or fowl except a pet normally maintained in
or near the household within 500 feet of any residence, place of business (not
owned or leased by applicant) or public street without meeting the following
criteria:
   (1)   The land on which the animals or fowl will be located contains a
minimum of five (5) acres.
   (2)   The land is securely fenced.
   (3)   The closest point of any proposed pasture area to any existing
residence is 100 feet, unless said residence is owned or leased by the person
keeping the animal.
   (4)   The closest point of any barn, corral, pen or enclosed area where
animals or fowl may be confined for any length of time shall be 200 feet from
any existing residence, unless said residence is owned or leased by the person
keeping the animals or fowl.
   (5)   The maximum number of animals permitted is limited to one per 1.5
acres.
(1970 Code, § 3-102, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-103. Pen or enclosure to be kept clean.
   When animals or fowls are kept within the corporate limits, the building,
structure, corral, pen, or enclosure in which they are kept shall at all times
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
(1970 Code, § 3-103)
10-104. Adequate food, water, and shelter, etc., to be provided.
   No animal or fowl shall be kept or confined in any place where the food,
water, shelter, and ventilation are not adequate and sufficient for the
preservation of its health and safe condition, and wholesomeness for food if so
intended.
   All feed shall be stored and kept in a rat-proof and fly-tight building,
box, or receptacle.
(1970 Code, § 3-104)
10-105. Keeping in such manner as to become a nuisance prohibited.
   No animal or fowl shall be kept in such a place or condition as to become a
nuisance either because of noise, odor, contagious disease, or other reason.
(1970 Code, § 3-105)
10-106. Cruel treatment prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to unnecessarily beat or otherwise abuse
or injure any dumb animal or fowl.
(1970 Code, § 3-106)
10-107. Seizure and disposition of animals.
   Any animal or fowl found running at large or otherwise being kept in
violation of this chapter may be seized by the codes officer, any police
officer or animal control officer and confined in a facility provided or
designated by the city manager. If the owner is known he shall be given notice
in person, by telephone, or by a postcard addressed to his last known mailing
address. If the owner is not known or cannot be located, a notice describing
the impounded animal or fowl and the location from which it was seized shall be
made available at the animal holding facility. In either case the notice shall
state that the impounded animal or fowl must be claimed within the time
prescribed by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 39-14-210 by paying the facility
costs or the animal or fowl shall be adopted or humanely destroyed.
   The facility keeper shall be entitled to collect from each person claiming
an impounded animal or fowl a reasonable fee to cover the costs of impoundment
and maintenance of the animal or fowl.
   Any animal or fowl that cannot be safely impounded because of a reasonable
belief of imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury to him/her, another
animal or the general public may be humanely destroyed by the animal control
officer or any police officer.
(1970 Code, § 3-107, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-108. Inspections of premises.
   For the purpose of making inspections to insure compliance with the
provisions of this title, the animal control officer, codes officer, or his
authorized representative, shall be authorized to enter, at any reasonable
time, any premises where he has reasonable cause to believe an animal or fowl
is being kept in violation of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 3-108, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-109. City to be bird sanctuary.
   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee, is designated as a bird sanctuary.
   It shall be unlawful to trap, shoot, hunt, or attempt to shoot or molest in
any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob any bird nest or wild fowl nest.
   Provided, however, if starlings or similar birds are found to be
congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a
nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the health
authorities of the City of Cookeville, then in such event such health
authorities shall meet with the representatives of the Audubon Society, Bird
Club, Garden Club, or as many of said clubs as are found to exist in the City
of Cookeville, after having given at least three (3) days actual notice of the
time and place of said meeting to the representatives of said clubs. If as a
result of said meeting no satisfactory alternative is found to abate such
nuisance, then said birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in such manner
as is deemed advisable by said health authorities under the supervision of the
chief of police of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
(1970 Code, § 3-109)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS AND CATS
1   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 68-8-108 and 68-8-109.
SECTION
   
10-201.   Rabies vaccination and registration required.
   
10-202.   Dogs and cats to wear tags.
   
10-203.   Running at large prohibited.
   
10-204.   Vicious dogs to be securely restrained.
   
10-205.   Noisy dogs prohibited.
   
10-206.   Confinement of dogs and cats suspected of being rabid.
   
10-207.   Seizure and disposition of dogs and cats.
   
10-208.   Authority of animal control officer.
10-201. Rabies vaccination and registration required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog or cat
without having the same duly vaccinated against rabies and registered in
accordance with the provisions of the "Tennessee Anti-Rabies Law" (Tennessee
Code Annotated, §§ 68-8-101 through 68-8-115).
(1970 Code, § 3-201, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-202. Dogs and cats to wear tags.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, or harbor any dog or cat
which does not wear a tag evidencing the vaccination and registration required
by the preceding section.
(1970 Code, § 3-202, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-203. Running at large prohibited.1
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or negligently permit any
dog or cat owned by him/her or under his/her control to run at large within the
corporate limits. All owners of dogs and cats shall be responsible for the
immediate removal and disposal of animal feces deposited on property other than
their own (i.e., pooper-scoopers, or pick-up bags). Animal feces deposited on
the property of the owner of the dog or cat shall be removed and disposed of in
a timely manner.
(1970 Code, § 3-203, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
10-204. Vicious dogs to be securely restrained.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog known to be
vicious or dangerous unless such dog is so confined and/or otherwise securely
restrained as to reasonably provide for the protection of other animals and
persons.
(1970 Code, § 3-204)
10-205. Noisy dogs prohibited.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog which, by loud and frequent
barking, whining, or howling, annoys, or disturbs the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood.
(1970 Code, § 3-205)
10-206. Confinement of dogs and cats suspected of being rabid.
   If any dog has bitten any person or is suspected of having bitten any person
or is for any reason suspected of being infected with rabies, the animal
control officer or police officer may cause such dog to be confined or isolated
for such time as he reasonably deems necessary to determine if such dog is
rabid.
(1970 Code, § 3-206, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002, modified)
10-207. Seizure and disposition of dogs and cats.
   Any dog or cat found running at large or otherwise being kept in violation
of this chapter may be seized by the codes officer, any police officer or the
animal control officer and confined in a facility provided or designated by the
city manager. If the owner is known he/she shall be given notice in person, by
telephone or by a postcard addressed to his/her last known mailing address. If
the owner is not known or cannot be located, notice describing the dog or cat
and the location from which it was seized shall be made available at the animal
holding facility. In either case, the notice shall state that the impounded dog
or cat must be claimed within the time prescribed by Tennessee Code Annotated,
§ 39-14-210 by paying the facility costs or the dog or cat shall be adopted or
humanely destroyed.1
   The facility keeper shall be entitled to collect from each person claiming
an impounded dog or cat a reasonable fee to cover the costs of impoundment and
maintenance of the dog or cat.
   Any dog or cat that cannot be safely impounded because of a reasonable
belief of imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury to him/her, another
animal or the general public may be humanely destroyed by the animal control
officer or any police officer.
(1970 Code, § 3-207, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
1   State law reference
   For a Tennessee Supreme Court case upholding the summary destruction of dogs
pursuant to appropriate legislation, see Darnell v. Shapard, 156 Tenn. 544, 3
S.W.2d 661 (1928).
10-208. Authority of animal control officer.
   The animal control officer authorized by the City of Cookeville shall have
the authority to issue citations to city court to any person in violation of
the provisions of
title 10,
chapters 1 and
2, of the Cookeville Municipal Code.
(1970 Code, § 3-208, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
TITLE 11
MUNICIPAL OFFENSES 1
1   Municipal code references
   Animals and fowls:
title 10.
   Housing and utilities:
title 12.
   Fireworks and explosives:
title 7.
   Traffic offenses:
title 15.
   Streets and sidewalks (non-traffic):
title 16.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   GENERALLY.
      
2.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE AND QUIET.
      
3.   FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND MISSILES.
      
4.   TRESPASSING, ETC.
      
5.   MISCELLANEOUS.
      
6.   ALCOHOL.
CHAPTER 1
GENERALLY
SECTION
   
11-101.   Certain offenses declared to be misdemeanors.
   
11-102.   Penalty for misdemeanor.
11-101. Certain offenses declared to be misdemeanors.
   When the performance of any act is prohibited by ordinance or state statute
and no penalty, punishment, or forfeiture for the violation of such ordinance
or statute is imposed, the doing of such act is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor.
(1970 Code, § 10-101)
11-102. Penalty for misdemeanor.
   Every person who is convicted of a misdemeanor, the punishment for which is
not otherwise prescribed by ordinance, shall be punished by fine not exceeding
the lawful amount permitted under provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-
54-308.
(1970 Code, § 10-102)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE AND QUIET
SECTION
   
11-201.   Disturbing the peace.
   
11-202.   Anti-noise regulations.
   
11-203.   Disturbing the municipal court.
11-201. Disturbing the peace.
   No person shall disturb, tend to disturb, or aid in disturbing the peace of
others by violent, tumultuous, offensive, or obstreperous conduct, and no
person shall knowingly permit such conduct upon any premises owned or possessed
by him or under his control.
(1970 Code, § 10-202)
11-202. Anti-noise regulations.
   (1)   Preamble. The Council of the City of Cookeville finds that excessive
noise is detrimental to the physical, mental, and social well being of the
citizens of the City of Cookeville as well as to their comfort, living
conditions, general welfare and safety and hereby declares it necessary to
provide for more effective regulation of excessive noise. It is the intent of
this chapter to establish standards that will eliminate or reduce unnecessary
and excessive noise which is physically harmful and otherwise detrimental to
individuals and the community in the enjoyment of life, property and conduct of
business.
   (2)   Definitions. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have
the following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended.
      (a)   "A-weighted sound pressure level" means the sound pressure level in
decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network, as
defined in American National Standard S1.4-1983 (R 1997). The level so read is
designated dB(A).
      (b)   "Ambient noise" means the all-encompassing noise associated with a
given environment, being usually a composite of sounds from many sources near
and far.
      (c)   “C-weighted sound pressure level” means the sound pressure level in
decibels as measured on a sound level meter using the C-weighted network, as
defined in American National Standard S1.4-1983 (R 1997). The level so read is
designated dB(C).
      (d)   "City" means City of Cookeville.
      (e)   "Commercial use" means activity within or upon a premise where
offices, clinics, kennels, shopping and service establishments exist and none
of the gross floor area meets the definition of residential use, as set forth
below.
      (f)   "DB(A)" means a unit for measuring the volume of a sound, equal to
twenty times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the
sound measured to the reference pressure, which is twenty micropascals (twenty
micronewtons per square meter).
      (g)   “dB(C)” is the C-weighted unit of sound pressure level.
      (h)   "Impulsive sound" means sound of short duration, usually less than
one second, with an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of
impulsive sound include explosions, drop forge impacts, and the discharge of
firearms.
      (i)   "Industrial use" means any activity within or upon a premise where
manufacturing, processing or fabrication of goods or produces takes place.
      (j)   "Motor vehicle" means any motor required to be registered by the
Department of Safety for the State of Tennessee, pursuant to Title 55 of the
Tennessee Code.
      (k)   "Person" means any individual, association, partnership, or
corporation, and includes any officer or employee thereof.
      (l)   "Public premise" means all real property, including appurtenances
thereon, which is owned or controlled by any public governmental entity and
shall include streets, alleys, parks and navigable waterways, but shall not
include real property leased to any non-governmental entity for residential,
commercial or industrial use, as defined herein.
      (m)   "Real property boundary" means a line along the ground surface, and
its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person
or entity from that owned by another person or entity, but not including
intrabuilding real property divisions.
      (n)   "Residential use" means any premises lawfully used for human
habitation under the ordinances of the City of Cookeville and the laws of the
State of Tennessee and shall include schools, churches, hospitals, nursing
homes, and similar institutional facilities. For purposes of this section only,
premises adjoining, adjacent to or opposite hospitals or nursing homes shall
also be deemed residential use.
      (o)   "Sound pressure" means the average rate at which sound energy is
transmitted through a unit area in a specified direction.
      (p)   "Sound pressure level meter" means an instrument used for
measurement of the intensity of sound and accurately calibrated in decibels.
Readings shall be made on a dB(A) or dB(C) scale.
   (3)   Standards.
      (a)   No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit sound from any
source which, when measured from the real property boundary of the source of
the sound, is in excess of the following standards:
         (i)   Residential use.
            (A)   When the offending sound emanates from a residential use
between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 12:00 midnight, sound which has an A-
weighted sound pressure level of 65 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-
weighted sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
            (B)   When the offending sound emanates from a residential use
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 A.M., sound which as an A-weighted
sound pressure level of 60 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted
sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
         (ii)   Commercial use.
            (A)   When the offending sound emanates from a commercial use
between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 12:00 midnight, sound which has an A-
weighted sound pressure level of 80dB(A), or impulsive sound which as an A-
weighted sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
            (B)   When the offending sound emanates from a commercial use
between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 A.M., sound which as an A-weighted
sound pressure level of 75 dB(A), or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted
sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
         (iii)   Industrial use. When the offending sound emanates from an
industrial use, continuous or impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound
pressure level of 80 dB(A).
      (b)   No person shall cause, suffer, allow or permit from any source
within a public premise any airborne sound which, when measured from the source
of the sound, has an A-weighted sound pressure level in excess of 65 dB(A), or
any impulsive sound which has an A-weighted sound pressure level of 80 dB(A).
This subsection shall not apply to legitimate government operations.
      (c)   Sound, whether continuous or impulsive, shall be measured at
approximately five feet above grade, using a slow meter response setting and
using a windscreen when appropriate.
   (4)   Loud, unusual or unnecessary noises prohibited; criteria; other
prohibited noises.
      (a)   Consistent with other provisions of this section, and in addition
thereto, it shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the city to
make, produce, cause, suffer, continue or allow to be produced or continued by
human voice, machine, animal, or device, or any combination of same, any
unreasonably loud, unusual or unnecessary noise which disturbs the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood, or which causes discomfort or annoyance to any
reasonable person of normal sensitivity residing in the area, or which
otherwise injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of others.
      (b)   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a
violation of this section exists shall include, but shall not be limited to the
following:
         (i)   The frequency of the noise;
         (ii)   The intensity of the noise;
         (iii)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
         (iv)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
         (v)   The frequency and intensity of the ambient noise, if any;
         (vi)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
         (vii)   The nature and land use of the area within which the noise
emanates;
         (viii)   The population density of the inhabitation of the area within
which the noise emanates;
         (ix)   The time of the day the noise occurs;
         (x)   The duration of the noise; and
         (xi)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant.
      (c)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be unreasonably
loud, unusual or unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, even if the
noises referred to do not violate the noise level standards set forth in this
section.
         (i)   Horns and signaling devices on vehicles. The sounding of any
horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicles
while not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is
approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion only as a danger signal
after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is
intended; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any
unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
         (ii)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to
any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work,
or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
         (iii)   Exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or
motorboat engine except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
         (iv)   Drums and other attention-attracting devices. The use of any
drum or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by
creation of noise to any performance, show or sale.
         (v)   Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
frequent barking, howling, crying, singing or causing any other frequent or
long-continued noise, disturbs the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity.
         (vi)   Sound trucks. The use or operation on or upon the public
streets in the city or on driveways or throughways owned by or leased to the
City of Cookeville of any device known as a sound truck, or any loudspeaker,
sound amplifier or other instrument of any kind or character which emits
therefrom loud raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle operated
or standing upon the city streets or on driveways or throughways owned by or
leased to the City of Cookeville.
         (vii)   Defect in vehicle or noisy load. The use of any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of repair or loaded in such a manner as to
create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
         (viii)   Pneumatic devices. The use of any mechanical devices operated
by compressed air unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced.
         (ix)   Fireworks. The use of any combustible novelty or recreational
items generating a whistle or loud report.
   (5)   Amplified sound. Consistent with other provisions of this section, and
in addition thereto, no person shall use, operate or allow to be operated any
sound amplification equipment such as but not limited to a radio, tape player,
record player, compact disc player, digital audio player, amplifier or similar
device, so as to create sounds registering in excess of 65dB(C) between 12:00
midnight and 7:00 a.m. as measured anywhere from the real property boundary of
the source of the sound. Should the sound emanate from a building within a
complex of buildings located on one property the measurement shall take place
on the nearest property line of said property.
   These sound limitations shall also apply to sound emanating from a vehicle,
whether moving or stationary, as well as any portable device located on the
public streets of the City of Cookeville, property owned by or leased to the
City of Cookeville, or within a public parking lot or on any other public
premises within the city.
   (6)   Continuing violations. Each violation of this section shall be
considered a separate offense, and any violation continuing more than one half
(1/2) hour or recurring within one half (1/2) hour shall be considered a
separate offense for each half hour of violation.
   (7)   No warning required. Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed as requiring any warning to any person before the enforcement of the
provisions of this section.
   (8)   Exceptions. None of the terms or prohibitions contained in this
section shall apply to or be enforced against:
      (a)   Any vehicle of the city or a public utility while engaged in
necessary public business.
      (b)   Excavations or repairs of bridges, streets or highways by or on
behalf of the city, the county or the state during the night, when the public
welfare and convenience renders it impossible to perform such work during the
day.
      (c)   Emergency activities of the city, the county, or the state and
emergency activities of public utilities when they are seeking to provide
electricity, water or other public utility services and the public health,
safety or welfare is involved.
      (d)   Any special event authorized by the city pursuant to the law, rules
and regulations of the city.
      (e)   Excavation, construction, demolition, repair, paving or alteration
of buildings or streets. This exception shall not apply to such excavation,
construction, demolition, repair, paving or alteration of buildings or streets
in a residential use between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. except in
case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety, and then
only with a permit from the building inspector. If the building inspector
should determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by the
erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or the excavation of
streets and highways between the hours of 6:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M., and if he
shall further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in
interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done between the hours of
6:00 P.M. and 7:00 A.M. upon application being made at the time the permit for
the work is awarded or during the progress of the work.
      (f)   Use of domestic power equipment (including but not limited to power
lawn mowers, leaf blowers, trimmers, snowblowers, tillers, saws, sanders,
drills, or similar devices) between 8:00 A.M. and 9:00 P.M.
      (g)   Attendant on-site noise connected with the actual performance of
organized sporting events on school campuses and in publicly owned parks or
facilities.
      (h)   Warning devices on authorized emergency vehicles and on motor
vehicles used for traffic safety purposes.
      (i)   Amplified and unamplified bells and chimes on schools, public
buildings and other places of assembly.
      (j)   Use of motor vehicles for the collection and/or compacting of
refuse, except that such vehicles shall not operate between 10:00 P.M. and 7:00
A.M. in a residential use.
      (k)   Cleaning and maintenance of parking lots and access roadways held
open to the public, but only when such activities are not feasible between 7:00
A.M. and 10:00 P.M.
      (l)   Any aircraft in flight subject to federal law regarding noise
control and any helicopter in the act of landing or taking off, if such landing
or taking off is approved.
      (m)   Air conditioning and refrigeration units appurtenant to a permanent
structure, so long as the unit or any of its component parts is not so out of
repair as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other
noise.
      (n)   Human sounds emanating from children twelve (12) years of age or
under, including but not limited to speech and utterances of laughter, cries,
and sounds associated with play.
      (o)   Security alarms on structures or motor vehicles, except that such
alarms must terminate operation within five (5) minutes after activation for
continuous airborne sound and within fifteen (15) minutes for impulsive sound
unless otherwise provided in this code.
   (9)   Special noise permits. (a) The City of Cookeville shall, upon proper
application, grant special permits for limited exceptions from the provisions
of this section.
      (b)   Special noise permits shall be issued only for events occurring on
Friday, Saturday, or a federally recognized holiday, and shall be effective
only between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 10:00 P.M.
   Special noise permits shall be limited to a single day, and no more than two
permits shall be issued to any premises in any twelve (12) month period,
regardless of any change in ownership of the premises.
      (c)   Any person seeking a special noise permit pursuant to this section
shall file an application with the city clerk. The application shall contain
specific information regarding the nature of the event for which the permit is
sought, including the anticipated duration of the event, the address of the
premises for which the permit is sought, the name (and address, if different
from the premises for which the permit is sought) of the person seeking the
permit, an acknowledgement of responsibility of the applicant for any
violations of this section resulting from noncompliance with the terms of the
permit, and the signature of the applicant. Said application shall be filed no
less than three (3) business days prior to the effective date of the permit. No
permit shall be issued by the city clerk unless the application has been
approved in writing by the Cookeville Police Department.
      (d)   Upon receipt of a properly executed and signed application, the
City of Cookeville shall issue a special noise permit to the applicant, which
permit shall exempt the premises specified in the permit from the provisions of
this section for the date specified in the permit, except that sound emitted
from the premises shall in no way exceed the standards set forth in this
section by more than 10 dB(A).
      (e)   Non-compliance with any conditions of the permit or any of the
provisions of this section shall invalidate the permit and subject the
applicant and any other person on the premises to all provisions of this
section.
      (f)   The permit shall be displayed prominently on the premises covered
by the permit.
(Ord. #099-02-03, March 1999, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002, and
Ord. #O18-02-03, March 2018)
11-203. Disturbing the municipal court.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a disturbance of any
proceedings before the municipal court by any distracting conduct, loud, or
unusual noise, or any indecorous, profane, or blasphemous language.
(1970 Code, § 10-209, modified)
CHAPTER 3
FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND MISSILES
SECTION
   
11-301.   Air rifles, etc.
   
11-302.   Missiles.
   
11-303.   Discharging firearms.
   
11-304.   Dangerous instruments, etc.
11-301. Air rifles, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to discharge any air gun,
air pistol, air rifle, "BB" gun capable of discharging a metal bullet or
pellet, whether propelled by spring, compressed air, expanding gas, explosive,
or other force-producing means or method.
(1970 Code, § 10-216)
11-302. Missiles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously throw, launch, drop,
shoot or propel any object or liquid upon or at any person, vehicle, structure,
utility device or other public or privately owned property.
(1970 Code, § 10-217, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
11-303. Discharging firearms.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to discharge a firearm
within the city except while lawfully hunting as defined by Title 70, Tennessee
Code Annotated. Anyone discharging a firearm, even when lawfully hunting, must
not discharge that firearm in a reckless manner that places or may place
another person in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury. It shall
also be unlawful for any unauthorized person to discharge a firearm within the
city except in cases of legitimate self defense or defense of an innocent third
party.
(1970 Code, § 10-215, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
11-304. Dangerous instruments, etc.
   (1)   It is a municipal offense to carry, for the purpose of going armed,
any dangerous instrument or substance which is capable of inflicting injury on
any person.
   (2)   A person commits an offense who carries with the intent to go armed a
firearm, a knife with a blade length exceeding four inches (4"), or a club.
CHAPTER 4
TRESPASSING, ETC.
SECTION
   
11-401.   Trespassing on trains.
   
11-402.   Damaging/destroying property.
   
11-403.   Interference with traffic.
   
11-404.   Jumping or hanging on motor vehicles.
11-401. Trespassing on trains.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor or other person to climb, jump, step,
stand upon, or cling to, or in any other way attach himself to any locomotive
engine or railroad car unless he works for the railroad corporation and is
acting the scope of his employment or unless he is a lawful passenger or is
otherwise lawfully entitled to be on such vehicle.
(1970 Code, § 10-226)
11-402. Damaging/destroying property.
   It shall be unlawful and deemed to be malicious mischief for any person to
willfully, maliciously, wantonly or negligently damage, deface, destroy,
conceal, or remove any real or personal property which does not belong to him.
(1970 Code, § 10-228)
11-403. Interference with traffic.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand, sit, or engage in any activity
whatever on any public street, sidewalk, bridge, or public ground in such a
manner as to prevent, obstruct, or interfere unreasonably with the free passage
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic thereon.
   Any person violating this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and fined accordingly.
(1970 Code, § 10-234)
11-404. Jumping or hanging on motor vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attempt to or to actually jump on or
hang to any moving motor vehicle.
(1970 Code, § 10-221)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION
   
11-501.   Public urination/defecation.
   
11-502.   Indecent exposure.
   
11-503.   Illegal voting.
   
11-504.   Vote soliciting at polling places.
   
11-505.   Smoking in city-owned buildings.
   
11-506.   Laser pointers prohibited.
   
11-507.   Resisting or interfering with a police officer.
11-501. Public urination/defecation.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any place
within the city that is not a restroom and is likely to be frequented by the
public or is in view of the public at large.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
11-502. Indecent exposure.
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly expose his/her genitals, pubic
area or buttocks or for a female person to knowingly expose the nipple of
either breast other than for the purpose of breast feeding an infant while in
any place that is in view of the public at large.
(1970 Code, § 10-206, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
11-503. Illegal voting.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to vote in any municipal
election.
(1970 Code, § 10-210)
11-504. Vote soliciting at polling places.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including those authorized to be
watchers or observers, to hand out or distribute cards, pamphlets, pictures, or
literature within one hundred and fifty (150) feet of any ballot box or voting
machine during the time the polls are lawfully open on the day of any election
or primary held in the city. It shall also be unlawful for any person to do any
other act whatsoever within said limits and during said time for the purpose of
attempting to influence the vote of any voter.
(1970 Code, § 10-211)
11-505. Smoking in city-owned buildings.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any city-owned building. For
the purposes of this section, smoking means the act of burning any tobacco
product, weed filler or plant of any kind in a cigarette, cigar, pipe, water
pipe, or any other device. Any person violating this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined accordingly.
(1970 Code, § 10-235)
11-506. Laser pointers prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mischievously or maliciously operate
in any place within the city that is open to the public any hand held laser or
other device that emits a concentrated visible light beam.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
11-507. Resisting or interfering with a police officer.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist or in any way interfere with
or attempt to interfere with any police officer while the latter is in the
discharge or apparent discharge of his duty.
(1970 Code, § 10-213)
CHAPTER 6
ALCOHOL
SECTION
   
11-601.   Drinking beer, alcoholic beverages, on streets, etc.
   
11-602.   City of Cookeville conceived and produced event.
11-601. Drinking beer, alcoholic beverages, on streets, etc.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or consume in an open
container of any kind, beer or any alcoholic beverage, within a vehicle, or in
or on any public street, alley, avenue, highway, sidewalk, public park, public
school grounds, or any other public place within the city except for special
events in the Cookeville Performing Arts Center and at City of Cookeville
conceived and produced events at the Performance Pavilion at Dogwood Park. This
shall not apply to the consumption of beer on a public or private golf course
that has been issued a permit to sell beer under
Title 8 of this Code, and said consumption is on the golf course itself in
cans. (as replaced by Ord. #011-01-01, Feb. 2011, as amended by Ord. #015-08-
20, Aug. 2015, as amended by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan. 2024)
11-602.  City of Cookeville conceived and produced event. 
   A City of Cookeville Conceived and Produced Event is an event that has been
planned and arranged by the City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services
for the benefit of the public at large, and not any particular person or group.
The City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services is responsible for
managing the event in its entirety, including paying any performer and all
custodial services necessary. This includes, but is not limited to, events at
the Performance Pavilion at Dogwood Park such as The Bryan Symphony Orchestra;
the Community Band Concerts; and Shakespeare in the Park. (as added by Ord.
#O23-12-25, Jan. 2024)
TITLE 12
BUILDING, UTILITY, ETC. CODES
   CHAPTER
      
1.   BUILDING CODE.
      
2.   PLUMBING CODE.
      
3.   ELECTRICAL CODE.
      
4.   GAS CODE.
      
5.   EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
      
6.   BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE.
      
7.   MECHANICAL CODE.
      
8.   ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
      
9.   ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE 1
1   Municipal code references
   Erosion control:
title 14, chapter 6.
   Fire protection, fireworks, and explosives:
title 7.
   Planning and zoning:
title 14.
   Streets and other public ways and places:
title 16.
   Utilities and services:
titles 18 and
19.
SECTION
   
12-101.   Building code adopted.
   
12-102.   Building permit fee schedule.
   
12-103.   Building valuation data.
   
12-104.   Board of adjustment and appeals.
   
12-105.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-106.   Violations.
   
12-107.   Enforcement.
   
12-108.   Expiration of building permits.
   
12-109.   Exceptions.
   
12-110.   Existing unfinished structures with expired building permits.
   
12-111.   Fees for extensions of building permits.
   
12-112.   Completion of construction required.
   
12-113.   Penalties for failure to complete construction.
12-101. Building code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-506, and for the purpose of regulating the construction,
alteration, repair, use and/or occupancy, location, maintenance, removal, and
demolition of every building or structure or any appurtenance connected to or
attached to any building or structure, the International Building Code and the
International Residential Code1, 2018 edition, as prepared and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted with amendments and incorporated
by reference as a part of this code, and is hereinafter referred to as the
building code.
International Residential Code (IRC) Section R313.2 is amended to read as
follows: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be required
in a single-family detached dwelling as defined by the Cookeville Zoning Code.
Single family attached, two-family or duplexes as defined by the Cookeville
Zoning Code will be required to have an automatic fire sprinkler system
installed.
IRC Section R314.6 Power Source relating to smoke alarms is amended to create
an exception 3 that reads: interconnection and hardwiring of smoke alarms in
existing areas shall not be required where alterations or repairs do not result
in the removal of interior walls or ceilings finishes exposing the structures.
(1970 Code, § 4-101, as amended by Ord. #098-06-20, July 1998, and replaced by
Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, Ord. #09-02-01, Feb. 2009, and Ord. #014-06-11,
June 2014, and amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
1   Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
12-102. Building permit fee schedule.
   The schedule of permit fees set forth shall be used to determine a building
permit fee:
   Total Construction Cost Fee
   $1,000 and less No fee unless inspections are required. If required, a fee
of $15.00 per inspection will be charged.
   $1,001 to $50,000 $15.00 for the first $1,000 plus $5.00 for each additional
thousand, or fraction thereof, up to and including $50,000.
   $50,001 to $100,000 $260.00 for the first
   $50,000 plus $4.00 for each additional thousand, or fraction thereof, up to
and including $100,000.
   $100,001 to $500,000 $460.00 for the first
   $100,000 plus $3.00 for each additional thousand, or fraction thereof, up to
and including $500,000.
   $500,001 and up $1,660.00 for the first
   $500,000 plus $2.00 for each additional thousand or fraction thereof.
   For moving any building or structure, the fee shall be: $100.00
   For the demolition of any building or structure, the fee shall be: $ 50.00
   When the value of the proposed construction exceeds $1,000.00 and a plan is
required to be submitted, a plan review fee shall be paid to the City of
Cookeville at the time of submitting plans and specifications for review. Said
plan review fee shall be equal to one-half (½) of the building permit fee as
determined from the above schedule. Said plan review fee is in addition to the
building permit fee. NO PLAN REVIEW FEE WILL BE CHARGED FOR THE REVIEW OF PLANS
FOR ONE AND TWO FAMILY DWELLINGS.
(1970 Code, § 4-102, as amended by Ord. #097-03-05, May 1997, and replaced by
Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-103. Building valuation data.
   For the purpose of determining construction cost for obtaining a building
permit, a minimum square foot cost shall be established. The square foot cost
shall be determined by using the Building Valuation Data printed semi-annually
in the Building Safety Journal published by the International Code Council.
(1970 Code, § 4-103, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-104. Board of adjustment and appeals.
   (1)   Appointment. There is hereby established a board of adjustment and
appeals, which shall consist of seven (7) members. Such board shall be composed
of one architect, one general contractor or engineer, and five members at large
from the building industry. The said board shall be appointed by the city
manager.
   (2)   Term of office. Members shall be appointed for terms of four (4)
years. Vacancies shall be filled for an expired term in the manner in which
original appointments are required to be made. Continued absence of any member
from regular meetings of the board shall, at the discretion of the city
manager, render any such member liable to immediate removal from office.
   (3)   Quorum. Four (4) members of the board shall constitute a quorum. In
varying the application of any provisions of this code or in modifying an order
of the building official, affirmative votes of the majority present, but not
less than four (4) affirmative votes, shall be required. A board member shall
not act in a case in which he has a personal interest.
   (4)   Power and duties.
      (a)   To hear and decide appeals to decisions of the building official
relating to the enforcement and administration of the building code.
      (b)   To review and approve permits to move a building within the
corporate limits of Cookeville subject to the following:
         (i)   A permit to move any building to a location within the city
limits shall not be issued until the board of adjustments and appeals finds,
after public hearing, that the building is structurally sound and that the
condition of the building does not constitute a
hazard to life or limb and that the building shall be made to comply with the
requirements and limitations of the ordinances relating to the zoning and
building codes of the City of Cookeville.
         (ii)   Notice of public hearing shall be mailed to the owner of the
building, to the owner of the site to which the building is to be moved, and to
the owners of property within 400 feet of the new site, who are directly
affected by the movement of the building.
   Notice of public hearing shall be sent not less than five (5) days prior to
the date of the hearing.
         (iii)   Plans shall be submitted which disclose such alterations,
modifications or repairs as are necessary to secure compliance with the
ordinances relating to the zoning and building codes of the city. Also, a
timetable of such repairs and alterations shall be submitted.
         (iv)   The time to bring the structure to city standards shall not
exceed 120 days. However, the board may extend the time limit for a period not
to exceed 60 days, upon appeal by the owner for cause.
         (v)   The board shall require an irrevocable letter of credit,
cashier's check or other negotiable instrument in an amount necessary to
perform all work to secure compliance with the building code of the city.
         (vi)   The board shall determine the value of the letter of credit or
negotiable instrument. If the work is not satisfactorily completed within 120
days or the extended time, the city may cash the letter of credit or other
negotiable instrument to fund completion of the necessary work. If the required
work exceeds the amount of the letter of credit or negotiable instrument, then
the excess shall be placed on the tax rolls of the city and thereupon became a
lien upon the property and shall be collected in the same manner as the city
taxes are collected.
(1970 Code, § 4-104, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-105. Available in clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502,
one (1) copy of the building code has been placed on file in the city clerk's
office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the public.
(1970 Code, § 4-105, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-106. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provision of the building code as herein adopted by reference.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-107. Enforcement.
   Any costs incurred in enforcing the building code adopted herein shall be
assessed against the owner of the premises involved, plus a 10% penalty which
shall be added thereto; and such cost and penalty shall be placed upon the tax
rolls of the city and thereupon become a lien upon the property and shall be
collected in the same manner as the city taxes are collected.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-108. Expiration of building permits.
   Building permits shall expire eighteen (18) months from the original date of
issue. For cause, no more than two (2) extensions of time, for periods not
exceeding ninety (90) days each may be allowed by the building official.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-109. Exceptions.
   The building official, at his discretion, may extend the period for the
expiration of the original building permit beyond eighteen (18) months,
provided the developer notifies the building official at the time the building
permit is originally issued that a particular development, due to size,
complexity, or other valid reason, will require a time period exceeding
eighteen (18) months to complete.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-110. Existing unfinished structures with expired building permits.
   The owner of any unfinished structure existing prior to the adoption of this
chapter for which there is no longer a valid building permit, shall obtain a
new building permit within thirty (30) days of receipt of written notification
by the building official. The new building permit shall be considered as an
extension and shall be valid for no more than ninety (90) days. For cause, one
(1) additional ninety (90) day extension may be allowed by the building
official.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-111. Fees for extensions of building permits.
   The fee for the first extension of a building permit shall be equal to one-
half the fee paid for the original building permit. The fee for the second
extension of a building permit shall be equal to fee paid for the original
permit.
(Ord. #001-12-20, Dec. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-112. Completion of construction required.
   The failure to complete construction of any structure to the point where a
certificate of occupancy can not be issued prior to the expiration of a
building permit shall be considered a violation of this code and subject to the
penalties specified in §
12-113
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-113. Penalties for failure to complete construction.
   Any person failing to complete construction as specified in §
12-112 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall pay a penalty
of not more than $50.00 for each offense. Each day of such violation shall
continue to constitute a separate offense
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE 1
1   Municipal code references
   Cross connections:
title 18.
   Street excavations:
title 16.
   Wastewater treatment:
title 18.
   Water and sewer system administration:
title 18.
SECTION
   
12-201.   Plumbing code adopted.
   
12-202.   Plumbing permit fees.
   
12-203.   Board of adjustment and appeals.
   
12-204.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-205.   Violations.
12-201. Plumbing code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-506, and for the purpose of regulating plumbing installations,
including alterations, repairs, equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings, and
the appurtenances thereto, and for the collection of fees and issuance of
permits therefor, within the corporate limits, when such plumbing is, or is to
be, connected with the city's water or sewerage system, the International
Plumbing Code,2 2018 edition, as prepared and adopted by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as a part of this
code, and is hereinafter referred to as the plumbing code. (1970 Code, § 4-201,
as amended by Ord. #098-06-20, July 1998, and replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov.
2005, Ord. #09-02-01, Feb. 2009, and Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, and amended by
Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
2Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
12-202. Plumbing permit fees.
   The schedule of permit fees set forth shall be used to determine a plumbing
permit fee:
      Permit fee $50.00
      Plumbing fixture fee $5.00 each
   A plumbing fixture is defined as a receptacle or device that is either
permanently or temporarily connected to the water distribution system and
demands a supply of water there from; discharges waste water, liquid-borne
waste material or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system
of the premises; or requires both a water supply connection and a discharge to
the drainage system of the premises.
(1970 Code, § 4-202, as amended by Ord. #004-06-08, July 2004, and replaced by
Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, and Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014)
12-203. Board of adjustment and appeals.
   The hearing and appeals to decisions of the building official relating to
the enforcement and administration of the International Plumbing Code shall be
heard by the board of adjustments and appeals established in
title 12, chapter 1, §
12-101.
(1970 Code, § 4-203, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-204. Available in clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502, one
(1) copy of the plumbing code has been placed on file in the city clerk's
office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the public.
(1970 Code, § 4-204, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-205. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provision of the plumbing code as herein adopted by reference and modified
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE 1
1   Municipal code references
   Fire protection, fireworks and explosives:
title 7.
SECTION
   
12-301.   Definitions.
   
12-302.   Electricians to be licensed.
   
12-303.   Effect of licensing.
   
12-304.   Electricians' helpers.
   
12-305.   Issuance of meter sockets, etc., by city.
   
12-306.   Standards for electrical work.
   
12-307.   Electrical work to be subject to inspection.
   
12-308.   Unsafe conditions.
   
12-309.   Unlawful to damage or tamper with city's property.
   
12-310.   Unlawful to interfere with meters.
   
12-311.   Unlawful to divert current around meters.
   
12-312.   Inspection fees.
12-301. Definitions.
   (1)   All references to persons or individuals shall, when applicable,
include firms or corporations and their officers, members, and employees.
   (2)   As used in this chapter the term "electrical work" shall include
installing, altering, rebuilding, or repairing wiring, conduit, raceways,
motors, materials, devices, apparatus, or equipment used for the generation,
transmission, alteration, or use of electricity.
   (3)   The term "wiring inspector" as used in this chapter shall include the
chief wiring inspector of the State of Tennessee as specified by the State Fire
Marshall, any deputy wiring inspectors appointed by the State Fire Marshall,
and persons so designated by the City Manager of Cookeville, Tennessee.
(1970 Code, § 4-301)
12-302. Electricians to be licensed.
   (1)   No persons shall engage in or do electrical work within the corporate
limits of Cookeville, Tennessee, unless and until he:
      (a)   Possesses a currently valid license or permit from the City of
Cookeville which covers such work in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the privilege tax laws of Tennessee, or
      (b)   Shall make application with the City Clerk of Cookeville,
Tennessee, for a license or permit to do electrical work and shall pay to
Cookeville, Tennessee, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the year beginning
with the effective date of said permit.
   (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all persons doing such
work for hire but shall not apply to persons engaging in such work on their own
premises and upon property owned by or to be used by them, provided, however,
that all other sections of this chapter shall be complied with.
(1970 Code,
§ 4-302, as amended by Ord. #08-09-20, Oct. 2008)
12-303. Effect of licensing.
   Any person possessing a license or permit as required herein shall be
referred to as a "licensed electrician" but by issuing such permit or license
the City of Cookeville assumes no responsibility and does not represent to
anyone that the person to whom the permit was issued is a skilled electrician
or is qualified to do any kind of electrical work.
(1970 Code, § 4-303)
12-304. Electricians' helpers.
   Anyone holding a license or permit to do electrical work as outlined above
may employ helpers or beginners to work under his direct supervision. This does
not permit a helper to do the work alone and shall not apply unless the
licensed electrician is really doing the work and is using such helper for
assistance only.
(1970 Code, § 4-304)
12-305. Issuance of meter sockets, etc., by city.
   The electrical department of the City of Cookeville shall provide or issue
meter sockets, bases, or enclosures only to licensed electricians or to persons
who are performing or intend to perform the work for which such socket or
enclosure is desired upon property owned by or to be used by them, unless the
location of the work to be performed is outside the corporate limits of
Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 4-305)
12-306. Standards for electrical work.
   All electrical work performed in Cookeville, Tennessee, shall conform to the
standards, requirements, and provisions of the State of Tennessee which relate
to such work.
(1970 Code, § 4-306, modified)
12-307. Electrical work to be subject to inspection.
   From the time that any electrical work is commenced until such time as it
has been given final approval by the wiring inspector, it shall be subject to
inspection by the wiring inspector, by any one or more persons designated by
the city manager, by any official or employee of the fire department, or by any
official or employee of the electrical department.
(1970 Code, § 4-307)
12-308. Unsafe conditions.
   The wiring inspector, or anyone designated by the city manager shall have
the right at any reasonable time to inspect any electrical wiring,
installations, motors, electrical devices, or apparatus. If any such shall be
found to be unsafe or likely to injure anyone or cause damage to property, the
person making the inspection shall give written notice to that effect to the
owner of said property or to the one using or in possession thereof, or to
both. Such notice shall require that such unsafe or defective condition shall
be corrected within thirty (30) days or, if conditions should warrant, a lesser
period, depending upon the seriousness of the hazard. The inspector shall send
a copy of said notice to the electric department. The person then in possession
of the property and/or the owner thereof, shall, within the time specified,
correct such dangerous or otherwise defective or unsafe conditions.
(1970 Code, § 4-308)
12-309. Unlawful to damage or tamper with city's property.
   No one shall damage, destroy, or tamper with or permit to be damaged,
destroyed, or tampered with, any property owned or used or operated by the City
of Cookeville or its electric department.
(1970 Code, § 4-309)
12-310. Unlawful to interfere with meters.
   No one shall do anyting to interfere with the proper operation of an
electric meter or prevent or tend to preent or interfere with the correct
metering or registering of electricity used upon any premises or property
within the corporate limits of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 4-310)
12-311. Unlawful to divert current around meters.
   No one shall divert or undertake to divert, or aid, assit, or encourage
anyone to divert any electric current from the lines of the electric department
in any way so as to cause it not to pass through and be measured by metering
equipment installed for that purpose. No one shall fasten or cause to be
fastened or assist in fastening any wires or other conductors of electricity to
any feed wires, lines, apparatus, or equipment belonging to the electric
department except employees of said department acting in line with their
regular duties and responsibilities.
(1970 Code, § 4-311)
12-312. Inspection fees.
   In addition to the fees and charges above, the fees charged for electrical
inspections shall be as provided in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 68-102-143.
(1970 Code, § 4-312)
CHAPTER 4
GAS CODE 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Gas system administration:
title 19, chapter 2.
SECTION
   
12-401.   Definitions.
   
12-402.   No gas to be supplied without inspection.
   
12-403.   Persons making installations, repairs, etc., to be insured.
   
12-404.   Property owner's responsibility.
   
12-405.   Standards for gas installations.
   
12-406.   Converting piping and appliances from use of liquefied to natural
gas.
   
12-407.   Enforcement.
12-401. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, the word "person" means and includes natural
persons, firms, partnerships, and corporations.
   The word "consumer," as used in this chapter, means any person or persons,
firm, partnership, or corporation purchasing natural gas from the Cookeville
Gas Department, regardless of the use which such person or persons, firm, or
corporation makes of the gas purchased.
(1970 Code, § 4-401)
12-402. No gas to be supplied without inspection.
   No gas shall be supplied to any consumer by the Cookeville Gas Department
until after the inspector of the planning and codes department shall have
inspected the piping, appliances, and fixtures installed for the use of natural
gas, and shall have certified that the said piping, fixtures, and appliances
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 4-402, modified)
12-403. Persons making installations, repairs, etc., to be insured.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall make any installation, modification,
or repair to any piping, applicances, or fixtures installed for the use of
natural gas from the Cookeville Gas Department unless he shall have a liability
insurance policy covering bodily injury or death with liability limits of
$125,000.00 for each person, $250,000.00 for each accident, and property damage
liability of $250,000.00 for each accident, and $250,000.00 for aggregate
operations. Such policy shall be with a good and solvent insurance company
approved by the City of Cookeville, Tennessee. However, any person wishing to
make such installation, modification, or repair of appliances, piping, or
fixtures for the use of natural gas in his own home, may be excused from
complying with the provisions of this section.
(1970 Code, § 4-403, modified)
12-404. Property owner's responsibility.
   No property owner shall cause or permit any installation, modification, or
repair of any piping, appliances, or fixtures for the use of natural gas from
the Cookeville Gas Department until he has determined that the person doing the
work shall have in effect the liability insurance policy as provided for in the
preceding section.
   This provision shall not apply to minor repairs, such as adjustments of
appliances, replacement of parts, repairing leaks, and similar work.
(1970 Code, § 4-404)
12-405. Standards for gas installations.
   The installation of all gas appliances and gas piping to be supplied with
natural gas from the Cookeville Gas Department shall be made in accordance with
the International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, as prepared and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as
a part of this code, and is hereinafter referred to as the fuel gas code.
   Section 403.4.3 is amended to read as follows: No copper tubing will be used
as gas piping materials in gas piping installations. Copper tubing will be
allowed, however, as connector to any non-motorized appliance with a limit of
three (3) feet in length and in the same room as the appliance. Any connection
to a motorized appliance is not allowed unless the building official has given
approval before the beginning of the installation. The copper tubing will not
be allowed to penetrate any type of floors, walls, or ceilings.
   All other corrugated stainless steel tubing will be allowed for gas piping
installations as stated in Section 403.5.4 of the International Fuel Gas Code,
2018 edition, and within the manufacturer's specifications. However, no
corrugated stainless steel tubing will be allowed to be installed in an area
that is not protected from the weather and/or sunlight. (1970 Code, § 4-405, as
amended by Ord. #098-06-20, July 1998, and replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov.
2005, Ord. #09-02-01, Feb. 2009, and Ord. #014–06-11, June 2014, and amended by
Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-406. Converting piping and appliances from use of liquefied to natural gas.
   Structures converting piping and gas equipment from use of butane or other
liquefied petroleum gases to natural gas shall be altered as follows:
   (1)   All piping previously installed shall otherwise conform to the
specification and construction standards adopted in §
12-405.
   (2)   Before a gas supply is furnished by the supplier, the orifices of all
liquefied petroleum gas appliances shall be changed or altered to sizes and
methods of use recommended by the manufacturer of the appliance. Vent pipes,
heater connections, or any other appurtenances to gas appliances in use prior
to conversion from liquefied gas to natural gas, shall be altered or replaced
in a manner that will conform to the specifications adopted in §
12-405.
(1970 Code, § 4-406)
12-407. Enforcement.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
building official of the codes department.
   Any person violating or failing to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or the manual of standards adopted herein shall be subject to a fine
under the general penalty clause for this code.
(1970 Code, § 4-407, modified)
CHAPTER 5
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION
   
12-501.   Existing building code adopted.
   
12-502.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-503.   Violations.
   
12-504.   Enforcement.
12-501. Existing building code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-506, and for the purpose of securing the public safety, health and
general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate
light and ventilation in dwellings, apartment houses, rooming houses, and
buildings or structures, the International Existing Building Code,1 2018
edition, as prepared and adopted by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference as a part of this code, and is
hereinafter referred to as the code. (Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by
Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
1 Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the Southern
Building Code Congress International, Inc., 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham,
Alabama 35213.
12-502. Available in the clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502, one
(1) copy of the existing building code has been placed on file in the city
clerk's office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the
public. (Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-503. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provision of the existing building code as herein adopted by reference. (Ord.
#014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-504. Enforcement.
   Any costs incurred in enforcing the existing building code adopted herein
shall be assessed against the owner of the premises involved plus a 10% penalty
which shall be added thereto; and such cost and penalty shall be placed upon
the tax rolls of the city and thereupon become a lien upon the property and
shall be collected in the same manner as the city taxes are collected. (Ord.
#014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
CHAPTER 6
BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION
   
12-601.   Building maintenance code adopted.
   
12-602.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-603.   Violations.
   
12-604.   Enforcement.
12-601. Building maintenance code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-506, and for the purpose of securing public safety, health and
general welfare through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate
light and ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other
hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
use and occupancy of buildings, structures or premises, the International
Property Maintenance Code,1 2018 edition, as prepared and adopted by the
International Code Council, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as
a part of this code, and is hereinafter referred to as the code. (Ord. #014-06-
11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
1Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
12-602. Available in the clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502, one
(1) copy of the building maintenance code has been placed on file in the city
clerk's office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the
public. (Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-603. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provision of the building maintenance code as herein adopted by reference.
(Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-604. Enforcement.
   Any costs incurred in enforcing the building maintenance code adopted herein
shall be assessed against the owner of the premises involved plus a 10% penalty
which shall be added thereto; and such cost and penalty shall be placed upon
the tax rolls of the city and thereupon become a lien upon the property and
shall be collected in the same manner as the city taxes are collected. (Ord.
#014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
CHAPTER 7
MECHANICAL CODE 1
1   Municipal code references
   Street excavations:
title 16, chapter 2.
   Wastewater treatment:
title 18.
   Water and sewer system administration:
title 18.
SECTION
   
12-701.   Mechanical code adopted.
   
12-702.   Mechanical permit fees.
   
12-703.   Board of adjustment and appeals.
   
12-704.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-705.   Violations.
12-701. Mechanical code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-516, and for the purpose of the installation of mechanical
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and/or appurtenances, including ventilating, heating,
cooling, air conditioning, and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other
energy-related systems and for the collection of fees and issuance of permits
therefor, within the corporate limit, the International Mechanical Code2, 2018
edition, as prepared and adopted by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference as a part of this code, and is hereafter
referred to as the mechanical code. (1970 Code, § 4-1201, as amended by Ord.
#098-06-20, July 1998, and replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, Ord. #09-02-
01, Feb. 2009, and Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19,
Nov. 2020)
2Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
12-702. Mechanical permit fees.
The following schedule of fees shall be used in determining a mechanical permit
fee:
   $1,000 and less    $50.00 for the first $1,000
   $1,001 and up    $50.00 for the first $1,000 plus $5.00 for each additional
thousand or fraction thereof.
(1970 Code, § 4-1202, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, and Ord. #014-
06-11, June 2014, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
12-703. Board of adjustment and appeals.
   The hearing and appeals to decisions of the building official, relating to
the enforcement and administration of the International Mechanical Code shall
be heard by the board of adjustments and appeals established in
title 12, chapter 1, §
12-101.
(1970 Code, § 4-1203, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-704. Available in clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502, one
(1) copy of the mechanical code has been placed on file in the city clerk's
office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the public.
(1970 Code, § 4-1204, as replaced by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-705. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provisions of the mechanical code as herein adopted by reference and modified
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE 1
1   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, § 13-19-106.
   Municipal code references
   Fire protection, fireworks, and explosives:
title 7.
   Planning and zoning:
title 14.
   Streets and other public ways and places:
title 16.
   Utilities and services:
titles 18 and
19.
SECTION
   
12-801.   Energy conservation code adopted.
   
12-802.   Modifications.
   
12-803.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-804.   Violation and penalty.
12-801. Energy conservation code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-516, and for the purpose of regulating the design of buildings for
adequate thermal resistance and low air leakage and design and selection of
mechanical, electrical, water-heating and illumination systems and equipment
which will enable the effective use of energy in new building construction, for
the International Energy Conservation Code2, 2018 edition, as prepared and
adopted by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted and amended and
incorporated by reference as a part of this code, and is hereafter referred to
as the energy code.
Section NI 102.4.1.2 (R402.4.1.2) Testing is replaced with Section NI 102.4.2.1
Testing Option and Section NI 102.4.2.2 Visual inspection from 2009 IRC.
Section NI 103.3.3 (R403.3.3 Duct Testing (Mandatory) and Section NI 103.3.4
(R403.3.4) Duct Leakage (Prescriptive) are optional.
Table NNI 102.1.2 Insulation and Fenestration Requirement by Component and
Table NI 02.1.4 (R402) Insulation and Fenestration requirements Component and
Table NI 102.1.4 (R402.1.4) Equivalent U-Factors from 2018 IRC are replaced
with Table NI 102.1 Insulation and Fenestration Requirements by Component and
Table NI 102.1.2 Equivalent U Factor from 2009 IRC. (as replaced by Ord. #09-
02-01, Feb. 2009, Ord. #014-06-11, June 2014, and Ord. #015-02-02, Feb. 2015,
as amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020)
2Copies of this code (and any amendments) may be purchased from the
International Code Council, 900 Montclair Road, Birmingham, Alabama 35213.
12-802. Modifications.
   Whenever the energy code refers to the "responsible government agency," it
shall be deemed to be a reference to the City of Cookeville. When the "building
official" is named it shall, for the purposes of the energy code, mean such
person as the board of mayor and aldermen shall have appointed or designated to
administer and enforce the provisions of the energy code.
12-803. Available in clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502,
one (1) copy of the energy code has been placed on file in the city clerk's
office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the public.
12-804. Violation and penalty.
   It shall be a civil offense for any person to violate or fail to comply with
any provision of the energy code as herein adopted by reference and modified.
The violation of any section of this chapter shall be punishable by a penalty
under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a violation is
allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
CHAPTER 9
ACCESSIBILITY CODE
SECTION
   
12-901.   Accessibility code adopted.
   
12-902.   Board of adjustment and appeals.
   
12-903.   Available in clerk's office.
   
12-904.   Violations.
12-901. Accessibility code adopted.
   Pursuant to authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 6-54-501
through 6-54-516, and for the purpose of making new buildings and facilities
accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities the 2010 Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) Standards for Accessible Design, as prepared by the
United States Department of Justice, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as a part of this code, and is hereafter referred to as the
accessibility code.
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005, and replaced by Ord. #014-06-11, June
2014)
12-902. Board of adjustment and appeals.
   The hearing and appeals to decisions of the building official relating to
the enforcement and administration of the accessibility code shall be heard by
the board of adjustments and appeals established in
title 12, chapter 1, §
12-101
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-903. Available in clerk's office.
   Pursuant to the requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-502, one
(1) copy of the accessibility code has been placed on file in the city clerk's
office and shall be kept there for the use and inspection of the public
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
12-904. Violations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provisions of the accessibility code as herein adopted by reference and
modified
(as added by Ord. #005-11-22, Nov. 2005)
TITLE 13
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS 1
1   Municipal code references
   Animal control:
title 10.
   Littering streets, etc.: § 16-107.
   Toilet facilities in beer places: §
8-211(10).
   CHAPTER
      
1.   MISCELLANEOUS.
      
2.   NUISANCES.
CHAPTER 1
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION
   
13-101.   Health officer.
   
13-102.   Smoke, soot, cinders, etc.
   
13-103.   Stagnant water.
   
13-104.   Dead animals.
   
13-105.   Health and sanitation nuisances.
   
13-106.   Enforcement.
   
13-107.   Tree ordinance.
13-101. Health officer.
   The "health officer" shall be such city, county, or state officer, or his
representative, as the city manager shall appoint or designate to administer
and enforce health and sanitation regulations within the City of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 8-401)
13-102. Smoke, soot, cinders, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the escape of such
quantities of dense smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, or gases as to
be detrimental to or to endanger the health, comfort, and safety of the public
or so as to cause or have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or
business.
(1970 Code, § 8-404)
13-103. Stagnant water.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow any pool of stagnant
water to accumulate and stand on his property without treating it so as to
prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.
(1970 Code, § 8-405)
13-104. Dead animals.
   Any person owning or having possession of any dead animal not intended for
use as food shall promptly bury the same or notify the health officer and
dispose of such animal in such manner as the health officer shall direct.
(1970 Code, § 8-407)
13-105. Health and sanitation nuisances.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any premises owned, occupied,
or controlled by him to become or remain in a filthy condition, or permit the
use or occupation of same in such a manner as to create noxious or offensive
smells and odors in connection therewith, or to allow the accumulation or
creation of unwholesome and offensive matter or the breeding of flies, rodents,
or other vermin on the premises to the menace of the public health or the
annoyance of people residing within the vicinity.
(1970 Code, § 8-408)
13-106. Enforcement.
   When it shall be determined by the city manager, or persons designated by
him, that any owner, lessee, occupier, or person having control of property has
violated any of the provisions of §
13-101 of this code, he shall give notice to such person to immediately remedy
the prohibited condition; and in the event such person shall fail or refuse to
do so within ten (10) days after such notice, this failure or refusal shall be
deemed an unlawful act and upon conviction thereof such person shall be
punished by a penalty not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00). The imposition of
such penalty shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue. All
responsible persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or
defects within a reasonable time and, unless otherwise specifically provided,
each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense.
(1970 Code, § 8-410)
13-107. Tree ordinance.
   The purpose of this tree ordinance is to provide a mechanism for the
management of trees and woody vegetation in the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
   (1)   Definitions:
         (a)   "Crown spread." The distance from the ends of branches on one
side of the tree, through the trunk, to the ends of the branches on the other
side.
         (b)   "Drip line." All points directly underneath the end of the
branches.
         (c)   "Large tree." A tree with a mature height of greater than forty
(40) feet.
         (d)   "Line clearance." Removal of limbs and branches growing within a
set distance of electrical distribution lines.
         (e)   "Private trees." A tree growing in an area owned by a private
individual, business or commercial establishment, company, or industry, private
institution, or other area not owned by government entities.
         (f)   "Private property." Any property not owned by a government
entity.
         (g)   "Proper pruning method." Selective removal and thinning of the
upper portions of the tree using natural target techniques, taking into account
the natural structure of the tree.
         (h)   "Pruning." Selective removal and thinning of the tree taking
into account the shape and natural structure of the tree.
         (i)   "Public property." Property owned by the community, including
parks, public buildings, schools, hospitals, rights-of-way and other areas to
which the public has access.
         (j)   "Public tree." A tree growing on land owned by the City of
Cookeville or on City of Cookeville right-of-way or other public right-of-way.
         (k)   "Public utility." That section of local government in charge of
supplying electricity, water, sewer and gas within the community.
         (l)   "Shrub." A woody plant with a multiple stem capable of growing
to a height of up to fifteen (15) feet.
         (m)   "Small tree." A tree with a mature height of no more than forty
(40) feet.
         (n)   "Street tree." A tree growing within a public right-of-way along
a street, in a median or in a similar area in which the public right-of-way
borders areas owned by private individuals.
         (o)   "Topping." Arbitrary removal of various portions of the tree,
thereby leaving stubs, with no regard for the natural structure of the tree.
         (p)   "Tree." A woody plant with a single trunk, or multiple trunks
capable of growing to a height of fifteen (15) feet or more, or a species of
tree normally recognized by arborist as a tree.
         (q)   Utility Definitions:
            (i)   "Energy Department." The section of local government in
charge of electrical distribution and is responsible for keeping electrical
distribution lines free of hazards including trees, within established
boundaries set forth by ANSI (American National Standards Institute).
            (ii)   "Substation." A high-voltage electric system facility. It is
used to switch generators, equipment, and circuits or lines in and out of a
system. It also is used to change AC voltages from one level to another, and/or
change alternating current to direct current or direct current to alternating
current.
            (iii)   "Transmission lines." Transmit high-voltage electricity
from the generation source or substation to another substation in the electric
distribution system.
            (iv)   "Trimming." Removal of branches and or tree sections to
eliminate or decrease likelihood of trees making contact with electric lines as
set forth in the latest version of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) and
OSHA guidelines for certified electric line clearance tree workers.
            (v)   "Utility tree." A tree that will contact any utility
structure. A tree or shrub whose roots may disrupt underground utilities,
including but not limited to electrical lines, water lines, sewer lines, gas
lines, or communication lines such as fiber optic or catv lines.
      (2)   Administration.
         (a) The City Manager or their designee shall be responsible for
carrying out the tree ordinance.
            (i)   Creation and establishment of a City Tree Board. There is
hereby created and established a City Tree Board for the City of Cookeville,
which shall consist of thirteen (13) members, five (5) members at large who are
citizens and residents of this city and who shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the approval of the Cookeville City Council, and eight (8) standing
members of the board which shall include the City of Cookeville Public Works
Director, the City of Cookeville Leisure Services Director, a representative
from the City of Cookeville Codes Division, a representative from the City of
Cookeville Department of Energy, a representative from the City of Cookeville
Planning Division, the City of Cookeville Urban Forester, a representative from
the Tennessee Tech University, and a representative from the local office of
the State Division of Forestry.
            (ii)   Term of office. The term of the five (5) persons to be
appointed by the Mayor shall be three (3) years except that the term of two (2)
of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one (1) year and
the term of two (2) members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In
the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term. No member
shall serve more than two successive terms in the same position.             
(iii)    Standing members may assign a designee to attend and vote on their
behalf.
            (iv)   Compensation. Members of the board shall serve without
compensation.
            (v)   Duties and responsibilities. The duties of the Tree Board
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
               (A)   Prepare a tree ordinance for the community.
               (B)   Develop and review as necessary and recommend policies to
carry out the intent of this ordinance.
               (C)   Assist in coordinating tree-related activities.
               (D)   Coordinate publicity concerning trees and tree programs.
               (E)   Conduct an Arbor Day event.
               (F)   Provide tree information to the community.
               (G)   Maintain a recommended tree list for the community.
               (H)   Recognize groups and individuals completing tree projects.
               (I)   Coordinate donations of trees or money to purchase trees.
               (J)   Perform other tree related duties and opportunities that
arise from time to time.
            (vi)   Operation. The board shall choose its own officers, make its
own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of
the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
            (vii)   Review of City Council. The City Council shall have the
right to review the conduct and acts of the City Tree Board. Any person may
appeal from any ruling of the Tree Board to the City Council if the appeal is
filed with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the action by the Tree
Board. The City Council will hear the appeal at the next regularly scheduled
City Council meeting that is scheduled to be held at least ten (10) days after
the lodging of the appeal. The City Council, in its sole discretion, may
reschedule the appeal. The City Council will hear the appeal and may take any
action it deems appropriate based on the facts and law regarding the case. The
decision of the City Council is final.
            (viii)   The Tree Board, with the approval of the City Manager,
shall appoint an individual to make initial decisions regarding the cutting,
trimming and pruning of trees or shrubs. This persons decision is final unless
appealed to the Tree Board or unless the cutting, pruning or trimming is a
matter of public safety that must be done immediately.
         (a) Tree planting shall be undertaken by the City on all public areas
in a systematic manner to assure diversity of age classes and species. Areas to
be planted, density, appropriate species, and other aspects of the planting
function shall be recommended by the Tree Board.
         (b)   Planting of trees on private property is encouraged, especially
in areas where the public may have any extraordinary interest. The Tree Board
will provide information about species, planting techniques, and placement
guidelines when requested by residents.
         (c)   Planted or naturally established seedlings near existing
objects. Small tree species may not be established within eight (8) feet of an
imaginary line drawn between utility poles or over underground utilities. Large
tree species may not be established within thirteen (13) feet of an imaginary
line drawn between utility poles or over underground utilities. For street tree
establishment, no tree or shrub may be established closer than ten (10) feet to
a fire hydrant, utility pole, or street light. Establishment of trees and/or
shrubs adjacent to roadway intersections including driveways or streets is
restricted to provide a safe clear distance to prevent visual impairment or
obstructions and shall comply with Sections 14-204 and 14-208 of the Cookeville
Zoning Code.       (4)   Tree care.
         (a) Right to Inspect. Authorized City of Cookeville officials,
including, but not limited to the person designated in subsection (2)(a)(viii)
above, have the authority to enter onto property whereon is located a tree,
shrub, or plant that is reasonably suspected to be a public hazard/nuisance.
         (b)   Tree topping of all public trees is prohibited, except as the
first stage of tree removal and topping of private trees is strongly
discouraged.
         (c)   Tree maintenance may include pruning, fertilizing, watering,
insect and disease control or other tree care activities. The City shall take
responsibility for those maintenance activities needed to keep the public trees
reasonably healthy and minimize the risk that hazard trees could cause to
residents and visitors of the City. Determination of maintenance needs will be
made by the Tree Board and a recommendation will be made to the City Manager.
Tree care may be accomplished by trained City personnel or by contract with
qualified commercial tree care companies.
         (d)   Care and maintenance of private trees are encouraged to minimize
safety hazards to people and the health risk to other trees in
Change 14, June 3, 2020   13-6A
      the community. The Tree Board will provide information in a timely manner
to residents about all aspects of tree care including the latest techniques and
procedures currently being practiced.
         (e)   Tree pruning in the vicinity of power lines shall be undertaken
by the public utility to assure the supply of electricity to its customers.
City crews and/or contractors will follow American National Standard Institute
A300 standards for pruning where applicable. Where practicable, the utility
shall undertake a program of replacing removed trees with appropriate
replacement tree species or cultivars recommended by the Tree Board.
         (f)   Grade changes and trenching within the crown spread of public
trees should be conducted in such a way as to minimize root system damage.
Owners of private trees are encouraged to consult the Tree Board before
proceeding with these activities.
         (g) The Cookeville Tree Board will recommend to the City of Cookeville
areas that need to be pruned along streets and sidewalks.
      (5)   Tree Removal. (a) The City of Cookeville retains the right to
remove, trim, or prune trees, plants, and shrubs located on public or private
property that may be necessary to ensure public safety as follows: Any tree or
shrub on private property when it interferes with the visibility of any traffic
control device or sign; interferes with public sidewalk; interferes with
electric lines/right-of-way; or interferes with any underground utility/public
utility service; or obstructs the view of any street intersection shall be
declared a public nuisance, and the City may remove, trim or prune as
necessary. If the tree is in the public right-of-way; on public property;
electric right-of-way, or underground utility right-of-way, the appropriate
governmental department will be contacted with the recommendation that the
tree, plant or shrub be removed or trimmed or pruned as necessary.
         (b)   If the authorized representative of the Tree Board, designated
in (2)(a)(viii) above, recommends that a tree on private property be removed,
upon receipt of notice to remove a tree, the owner may appeal the decision
within fifteen (15) days (or next meeting, whichever comes last) to the Tree
Board. The City Tree Board does not have the authority to order the removal of
the tree or to cause the tree, shrub or bush to be removed, trimmed or pruned.
However, the City of Cookeville retains the right to cut, trim, or prune as
herein provided.
         (c)   Tree removal to ground level is considered part of the tree
removal process (zero (0) to six (6) inches from the soil is considered ground
level).
         (d)   Sprout control following tree removal will be accomplished by
mechanical or chemical means. Any chemical used in sprout control shall be
registered and used according to the manufacturer's specifications.
      (6)   Protection of existing trees. As it pertains to commercial and
residential development, the City maintains that it is in the best interest of
all concerned to save as many existing trees as practical. However, the private
property owner has the right to remove any trees the owner may desire on the
owner's privately owned property, as long as the removal does not conflict with
Section 14-208 of the Cookeville Zoning Code.
      (7)   Emergencies. In case of emergency or natural disasters such as
windstorm, ice storm or such other events that jeopardize public safety, the
requirements of this chapter shall be waived so as not to hamper private and
public work to abate the emergency conditions within the City. (1970 Code, § 8-
411, as amended by Ord. #O18-12-35, Dec. 2018, and by Ord. #O-24- 06-19, July
2024)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION
   
13-201.   Declaration of nuisances.
   
13-202.   General requirements.
   
13-203.   Notification.
   
13-204.   Failure to comply with an order to correct a violation.
   
13-205.   Penalties for failure to comply.
   
13-206.   Payment of costs.
13-201. Declaration of nuisances.
   (1)   The accumulation of trash, rubbish, abandoned appliances and other
debris declared to be a nuisance. The allowing or permitting an accumulation of
debris; rubbish; trash; cans; bottles; papers; or abandoned or unusable
appliances on any lot, tract, or parcel of land within the corporate limits of
the City of Cookeville constitutes a threat or menace to life, property, public
health, or public welfare and/or creates a fire hazard is hereby specifically
prohibited and declared to be a public nuisance.
   (2)   The accumulation of abandoned or undriveable motor vehicles declared
to be a nuisance. The allowing or permitting an accumulation of abandoned,
wrecked, junked partially dismantled or inoperative motor vehicles on any lot,
tract, or parcel of land, and on the public rights-of-way, within the corporate
limits of the City of Cookeville constitutes a threat or menace to life,
property, public health, or public welfare and/or creates a fire hazard is
hereby specifically prohibited and declared to be a public nuisance.
   (3)   Overgrown vegetation declared to be a nuisance. The allowing or
permitting a dense growth of trees, vines, grass and underbrush to develop or
occur on any lot, tract, or parcel of land within the corporate limits of the
City of Cookeville constitutes a threat or menace to life, property, public
health, or public welfare and/or creates a fire hazard is hereby specifically
prohibited and declared to be a public nuisance.
   (4)   Outdoor use or storage of furniture not properly treated,
manufactured, or intended for outdoor use declared to be a nuisance. The
outdoor use or storage of furniture not properly treated, manufactured, or
intended for outdoor use or storage on any lot, tract, or parcel of land within
the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville constitutes a threat or menace
to life, property, public health, public welfare and/or creates a fire hazard
is hereby specifically prohibited and declared to be a public nuisance.
(1970 Code, § 8-501, as amended by Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001)
13-202. General requirements.
   (1)   Premises to be kept clean. All persons, firms, and corporations within
the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville are hereby required to keep
their premises in a clean and sanitary condition, free from accumulations of
debris, rubbish, cans, bottles, papers, refuse, offal, filth and trash.
   (2)   Outside storage of appliances restricted. The outside storage of any
appliance with a latching door is prohibited except as may be permitted in by
the Cookeville Zoning Code. Such appliances include, but are limited to
refrigerators, chest-type freezers, and up-right freezers. In those zones where
the outside storage of such appliances may be permitted, the door shall be
removed or the latching mechanism rendered inoperable.
   (3)   Storage of abandoned vehicles prohibited. The allowing or permitting
the accumulation of abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, or
inoperative motor vehicles on any lot, tract, or parcel of land, and on the
public rights-of-way, within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville is
prohibited except as may be permitted in by the Cookeville Zoning Code.
   Abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled or inoperative motor
vehicles meeting the following conditions are considered as exempt from this
provision:
      (a)   Any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
constructed for racing or operation on privately owned dragstrips or raceways.
      (b)   Any motor vehicle over twenty-five years in age that is retained by
its owner for collection purposes rather than for salvage or for
transportation; said vehicle shall be maintained in operable condition and may
be required to be kept in conformance with the following paragraph.
      (c)   Any abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, or
inoperative motor vehicle kept within a building where it will not be visible
from any adjacent property or right-of-way.
      (d)   Any abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled or inoperative
motor vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated in strict
compliance with all state regulations or as may be permitted by the Cookeville
Zoning Code and when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise.
      (e)   Any abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled or inoperative
motor vehicle in a appropriate storage place or depository maintained at a
location officially designated and in a manner approved by the City of
Cookeville.
   (4)   Removal of abandoned motor vehicles required. It shall be the duty of
the person, firm, or corporation that is the owner of lands on which any
abandoned, wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, or inoperative motor vehicle
is located to remove the same to a place of lawful storage or to have the such
vehicle housed within a building where it will not be visible from any adjacent
property or right-of-way.
   (5)   Height of vegetation. Grass and other vegetation commonly recognized
as weeds shall be considered in violation of this chapter when said vegetation
has reached a height of twelve (12) inches.
(1970 Code, § 8-502)
13-203. Notification.
   Whenever any public nuisance, as defined by this chapter, exits on lands
within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, the codes department
shall notify the owner of record of said lands and direct them to abate or
remove the same. Said notification shall:
   (1)   Be in writing;
   (2)   Specify the nature of the public nuisance and give its location;
   (3)   Specify the corrective measures required; and
   (4)   Require compliance within not less than ten (10) days nor more than
thirty (30) from the date of notification.
   The notification shall be served upon the owner or owners of the premises
where the nuisance is located by serving them personally or by sending said
notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to their address as shown
on the current tax rolls of the City of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 8-503, modified)
13-204. Failure to comply with an order to correct a violation.
   If the owner or owners of the premises fail or refuse to comply with the
order issued by the codes department within the time period specified by the
letter of notification, as provided herein, such failure or refusal shall be
deemed a violation of the provisions of this chapter and said owner or owners
shall be subject to the penalties herein provided.
(1970 Code, § 8-504, modified)
13-205. Penalties for failure to comply.
   If the owner or owners of the premises fail or refuse to comply with the
order issued by the codes department with in the time period specified by the
letter of notification, the code enforcement officer of the codes department or
his duly authorized representatives may enter onto such premises and take the
corrective action specified in the letter of notification so that the nuisance
identified by said letter is removed or abated.
(1970 Code, § 8-505, modified)
13-206. Payment of costs.
   Upon the completion of the corrective action carried out by the codes
department as authorized herein, the actual costs of such action, plus a fee of
fifteen percent (15%) for administrative costs, shall be paid by the owner or
owners of said property to the City of Cookeville and said costs shall be
billed to the owner or owners of said property. If said bill is not paid in
full within sixty (60) days after its date of mailing, a ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be added and said costs and penalties shall be placed on the tax
rolls of the City of Cookeville as a lien upon said property and collected in
the same manner as other city taxes are collected.
(1970 Code, § 8-506, modified)
TITLE 14
ZONING AND LAND USE CONTROL
   CHAPTER
      
1.   MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION.
      
2.   OFFICIAL ZONING CODE.
      
3.   PROPERTY NUMBER MAPPING SYSTEM.
      
4.   HOUSE TRAILERS.
      
5.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS.
      
6.   CONTROL OF NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEMS.
      
7.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
      
8.   STREAM BUFFER ZONES.
      
9.   WATER WELLS AND USE OF SPRINGS.
CHAPTER 1
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION
   
14-101.   Membership.
   
14-102.   Organization, powers, duties, etc.
   
14-103.   Additional powers.
   
14-104.   Compensation.
14-101. Membership.
   The municipal planning commission, hereinafter referred to as the planning
commission, shall consist of nine (9) members. Two (2) of these members shall
be the mayor of the city or a person designated by him, and a member of the
city council, selected by that body. The other seven (7) members shall be
appointed by the mayor and confirmed by a majority of the city council. The
terms of the mayor or his designate and the councilman elected by the council
shall run concurrently with their term in office. The terms of the seven (7)
members appointed by the mayor shall be for five (5) years with terms to expire
on the date of the first council meeting in each calendar year.
   Members appointed after the effective date of this amendment shall be
required to live within the planning area of the Cookeville Planning
Commission. Any vacancy in an appointive membership shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the mayor.
(1970 Code, § 11-101, modified)
14-102. Organization, powers, duties, etc.
   The planning commission shall be organized and shall carry out its powers,
functions, and duties in accordance with Tennessee Code Annotated, title 13.
(1970 Code, § 11-102)
14-103. Additional powers.
   Having been designated as a regional planning commission, the municipal
planning commission shall have the additional powers granted by, and shall
otherwise be governed by the provisions of the state law relating to regional
planning commissions.
(1970 Code, § 11-103)
14-104. Compensation.
   The members of the Cookeville Planning Commission shall be compensated at
the rate of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month for any month in which the
member attends a regular or special called meeting of the planning commission
(as added by Ord. #07-10-32, Oct. 2007)
CHAPTER 2
OFFICIAL ZONING CODE
SECTION
   
14-201.   Land use to be governed by official zoning code.
14-201. Land use to be governed by official zoning code.
   Land use within the City of Cookeville shall be governed by the official
zoning code and official zoning map, as approved by the Cookeville Planning
Commission on October 22 and November 26, 2001, and adopted by Ordinance #001-
11-15, December 20, 2001, and any amendments thereto. 1
1   Copies of the city's current zoning ordinance and zoning map, and Ord.
#001-11-15, and any amendments thereto, are of record in the city clerk's
office.
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY NUMBER MAPPING SYSTEM
SECTION
   
14-301.   Property number mapping system adopted.
   
14-302.   Copies available at the codes department.
   
14-303.   Responsibility of owner to display number.
   
14-304.   Misdemeanor to fail to display number.
   
14-305.   Each day separate offense.
14-301. Property number mapping system adopted.
   The Property Number Mapping System developed by the Putnam County Emergency
Communication District (E-911) and approved by the Cookeville Planning
Commission is hereby adopted as the "Official Property Number Mapping System of
the City of Cookeville".
(1970 Code, § 11-501)
14-302. Copies available at the codes department.
   Copies of the official property numbering mapping system shall be available
at the codes department.
(1970 Code, § 11-502, modified)
14-303. Responsibility of owner to display number.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of record of each residence,
building, structure, or place of business (excepting sheds and accessory
buildings) opening upon or having access to any street with the City of
Cookeville to display the property number shown on the official property
numbering mapping system in a conspicuous place so as to be legible from the
center line of the adjacent street.
(1970 Code, § 11-503)
14-304. Misdemeanor to fail to display number.
   It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor to fail to display the assigned
property number or to display an incorrect property number.
(1970 Code, § 11-504)
14-305. Each day separate offense.
   Each day during which an incorrect property number is displayed shall be
considered a separate offense.
(1970 Code, § 11-505)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSE TRAILERS
SECTION
   
14-401.   Compliance with this chapter required.
   
14-402.   Permit required.
   
14-403.   Permit fee.
   
14-404.   Cut-off date.
   
14-405.   Trailers to be located in licensed parks only.
   
14-406.   Trailer not to be relocated.
   
14-407.   Connection to water and sewer systems required.
   
14-408.   Office trailers on state and federally owned property.
   
14-409.   Temporary office trailers.
   
14-410.   Violations.
   
14-411.   Enforcement.
14-401. Compliance with this chapter required.
   After April 17, 1966, it shall be unlawful to park, store, occupy, set, or
place any house trailer, and/or mobile home on any lot or tract of land within
the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, unless the terms and
conditions of this chapter are complied with, except on the lot of a duly
authorized and licensed trailer or mobile home dealer exhibiting the same for
sale.
(1970 Code, § 4-601)
14-402. Permit required.
   No house trailer and/or mobile home shall be occupied or stored within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, unless the owner or
occupant thereof shall first apply for a permit from the city building
inspector and the owner or the occupant thereof after April 17, 1966, shall
have thirty (30) days to apply for said permit.
(1970 Code, § 4-602)
14-403. Permit fee.
   The city building inspector shall charge a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for a
permit to store a house trailer and/or mobile home and office trailer. The
inspector shall inspect the footings and mountings of the trailer to insure
proper installation and inspect the trailer for health and safety requirements.
In addition to the permit fee, an inspection fee of $10.00 will be charged for
each inspection made as a part of the approval process under a given permit.
(1970 Code, § 4-603)
14-404. Cut-off date.
   No additional house trailers and/or mobile homes shall be stored or occupied
on any lot or plot of ground within the corporate limits of the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee, except as provided in §
14-405 after April 17, 1966.
(1970 Code, § 4-604)
14-405. Trailers to be located in licensed parks only.
   Within thirty (30) days after April 17, 1966, no permit shall be issued for
a house trailer and/or mobile home to be stored or occupied on any lot or plot
of ground within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee,
except in a duly licensed and authorized mobile home and/or trailer court which
conforms to all the state statutes of the State of Tennessee and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of Public Health of the State of
Tennessee and approved by the Cookeville Planning Commission.
(1970 Code, § 4-605)
14-406. Trailer not to be relocated.
   Every owner or occupant of a house trailer and/or mobile home and office
trailer shall not remove the trailer and/or mobile home to any other location
within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, nor can a new
or used house trailer and/or mobile home be substituted on the lot or plot of
ground without obtaining a permit in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
(1970 Code, § 4-606)
14-407. Connection to water and sewer systems required.
   All house trailers and/or mobile homes occupied within the corporate limits
of Cookeville, Tennessee, within thirty (30) days after April 17, 1966, shall
be connected to the city water and sewer systems, provided, however, such
additional time may be granted to tie on to the water and sewer systems as it
takes for the water and sewer departments to connect the said trailer and/or
mobile home on to the said lines under said departments' schedule of work and
rules and regulations.
(1970 Code, § 4-607)
14-408. Office trailers on state and federally owned property.
   Office trailers to be utilized by state or federal agencies shall be allowed
on property owned by the State of Tennessee, or the United States government
provided such property is Zoned CG or LM.
(1970 Code, § 4-608)
14-409. Temporary office trailers.
   Temporary office trailers shall be permitted on construction sites for the
purpose of conducting an otherwise lawful use during the period of
construction. No temporary office trailers shall be used as a dwelling.
construction must commence within 30 days of a permit being issued for a
trailer and if not commenced within 30 days the trailer shall be removed.
Temporary office trailers shall be promptly removed upon completion of
construction or six months from the date of issuance of the trailer permit
whichever comes first.
(1970 Code, § 4-609)
14-410. Violations.
   The building official shall initiate action to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 4-610)
14-411. Enforcement.
   Any costs incurred in enforcing §
14-409 shall be assessed against the owner of the trailer involved, plus a ten
percent (10%) penalty which shall be added thereto; and such costs and penalty
shall become a lien upon the trailer, and may be collected in the same manner
as the city taxes are collected.
(1970 Code, § 4-611)
CHAPTER 5
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION
   
14-501.   General provisions.
   
14-502.   General requirements.
   
14-503.   Compliance.
   
14-504.   Fees.
   
14-505.   Warranty of improvements required.
   
14-506.   Administration.
   
14-507.   Enforcement.
   
14-508.   Penalties.
   
14-509.   Appeals.
   
14-510.   Erosion and sediment control policy.
14-501. General provisions.
   (1) Purpose and scope. The purpose of these regulations is to protect,
maintain and enhance the environment of the City of Cookeville and the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the city, by minimizing
the discharge of sediment and construction related waste into the municipal
separate storm sewer system and waters of the state; and to maintain and
improve the quality of the receiving waters into which stormwater runoff flows,
including streams, rivers, lakes, ponds and wetlands; and to comply with the
State of Tennessee National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
general permit for discharges from small municipal separate storm sewer
systems.
   (2)   Compliance with other municipal codes and regulations. These
regulations shall be used in compliance with and in conjunction with all other
pertinent municipal codes, regulations and policies including the following:
      (a)   Cookeville Municipal Code Title 14, Chapter 6, Control of Natural
Drainage Systems; Chapter 7, Stormwater Management; Chapter 8 Riparian Buffer
Zones.
      (b)   Cookeville Zoning Code.
      (c)   Cookeville Subdivision Regulations.
      (d)   Cookeville Building Codes.
      (e)   Cookeville Municipal Code Title 14, Chapter 5, § 14-510.
   (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply. Words used in the singular shall include the plural,
and the plural shall include the singular; words used in the present tense
shall include the future tense. The word "shall" is mandatory and not
discretionary. The word "may" is permissive. Words not defined in this section
shall be construed to have the meaning given by common and ordinary use as
defined in the latest edition of Webster's Dictionary.
      (a)   “Best Management Practices (BMP's)” means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system and waters of the state. This term also includes
treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage, or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
material storage.
      (b)   “City” means the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
      (c)   “Clearing” (when used in the context of discharges associated with
construction activity) means the removal of vegetation and disturbance of soil
prior to grading or excavation in anticipation of construction activities.
Clearing may also refer to wide area land disturbance in anticipation of non-
construction activities such as clearing of forested land for conversion to
pasture. This term does not include the clearing of vegetation along roadways,
highways, dams or power lines for sight distance or other maintenance or safety
concerns, or cold planning, milling, or removal of concrete or bituminous
asphalt roadway pavement surfaces.
      (d)   “Commencement of Construction or Commencement of Land Disturbing
Activities” means the initial disturbance of soils associated with clearing,
grading or excavating activities or other construction activities.
      (e)   “Construction” means any installation, building, placement or
assembly of facilities or equipment (including contractual obligations to
purchase such facilities or equipment) at the premises where such equipment
will be used, including preparation work at such premises.
      (f)   “Construction Related Waste” means refuse or unused materials that
result from construction activities. “Construction related waste” can include,
but not be limited to, unused building and landscaping materials, chemicals,
litter, sanitary waste, and concrete truck washout.
      (g)   “Construction Support Activities” means activities which involve
the use or operation of concrete or asphalt batch plants, equipment staging
yards, material storage areas, excavated material disposal areas or borrow
areas provided all the following criteria are satisfied:
         (1)   the support activity is primarily related to a construction site
that is subject to QLP permit coverage or to a grading permit;
         (2)   the operator of the support activity is the same as the operator
of the construction site;
         (3)   the support activity is not a commercial operation serving
multiple unrelated construction projects by different operators;
         (4)   the support activity does not operate beyond the completion of
the construction activity of the last construction project it supports; and
         (5)   the support activities, with appropriate erosion prevention and
controls therefor, are identified and described in the stormwater pollution
prevention plan.
      (h)   “Development” means any manmade change to improved or unimproved
property including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings or other
structures, clearing, dredging, drilling operations, filling, grading, paving,
excavation, or storage of equipment or materials.
      (i)   “Erosion” means the removal of soil particles by the action of
water, wind, ice or other agents, whether naturally occurring or acting in
conjunction with or promoted by manmade activities or effects.
      (j)   “Exceptional Tennessee Waters” means surface waters of the State of
Tennessee that satisfy the characteristics of exception Tennessee waters as
listed in Rule 0400-40-03-.06 of the official compilation - rules and
regulations of the State of Tennessee.
      (k)   “Filling” means any deposition or stockpiling of dirt, rock,
stumps, or other natural or manmade solid waste material.
      (l)   “Grading” means any excavation, filling (including fill placed in
watercourses), or stockpiling of earth materials or any combination thereof,
including the land in its excavated or filled condition.
      (m)   “Grading Permit” means a permit issued by the city authorizing the
commencement of land disturbing activities on a site smaller than one acre in
size.
      (n)   “Land Disturbing Activity” means any activity on a property that
results in a change in the existing soil cover, whether vegetative or non-
vegetative, or the existing soil topography. “Land disturbing activities”
include, but are not limited to, development, re-development, demolition,
construction, reconstruction, clearing, grading, filling and excavation.
      (o)   “Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4)” means a conveyance or
system of conveyances, including roads with drainage systems, streets, roads,
catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains, which
are:
         (1)   Owned or operated by a state, county, city, town, district,
association, or other public body created by or pursuant to state law having
jurisdiction over the disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater, or
other wastes, including special districts under state law such as a sewer
district, flood control district or drainage district, or similar entity or a
designated and approved management agency under section 208 of the federal
Clean Water Act that discharges to waters of the state;
         (2)   Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (3)   Which is not a combined sewer; and
         (4)   Which is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW) as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 122.2, as amended from time to time.
      (p)   “Owner” or “Operator” means any person or entity associated with a
construction project that meets either of the following two criteria:
         (1)   The person or entity has operational or design control over
construction plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications, typically the owner or
developer of the project or a portion of the project who is considered the
primary permittee; or
         (2)   The person or entity has day-to-day operational control of those
activities at a project which are necessary to ensure compliance with a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site or other permit conditions,
typically a contractor or a commercial builder who is hired by the primary
permittee who is considered a secondary permittee.
      (q)   “Plan” means a stormwater pollution prevention plan, or a small lot
erosion and sediment control plan.
      (r)   “Priority Construction Activity” means construction activities that
discharge directly into or immediately upstream from waters the state
recognizes as having unavailable parameters (for siltation) as exceptional
Tennessee waters. A property is considered to have a direct discharge if
stormwater runoff from the property does not cross any other property before
entering the waters of the state.
      (s)   “Public Works Director” means the Public Works Director of the city
or his designee, who is responsible for the implementation of this chapter.
      (t)   “QLP Permit Coverage” means permit coverage under the State of
Tennessee Construction General Permit issued by the city authorizing the
commencement of land disturbing activities on a site larger than one acre in
size. This permit coverage formerly would have been issued by the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation.
      (u)   “Section 404 permit” means a permit issued by the United States
Army Corps of Engineers under Section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act.
      (v)   “Sediment” means solid material, either mineral or organic, that is
in suspension, being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
erosion.
      (w)   “Small Lot Erosion and Sediment Control Plan” means the plan
necessary for obtaining a grading permit issued by the City authorizing
commencement of land disturbing activities on a site smaller than one acre.
This plan is designed to eliminate or reduce erosion and off-site sedimentation
from a site during construction activities.
      (x)   “State” means the State of Tennessee or, where the context
indicates, any state of the United States.
      (y)   “Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)” means a written plan
that includes appropriate site maps, identification of construction activities
that could cause pollutants in the stormwater and a description of measures or
practices to control these pollutants.
      (z)   “Subdivision” means the division, subdivision, or re-subdivision of
any lot or parcel of land as defined in the subdivision regulations of the
city.
      (aa)   “Tennessee Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook” or “Handbook”
means the handbook bearing such title, as amended from time to time, published
by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation.
      (bb)   “Tennessee Construction General Permit” means the General NPDES
Permit for Discharges of Stormwater Associated with Construction Activities,
Permit No. TNR 100000" issued by the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation, as amended from time to time.
      (cc)   “TDEC” means the Department of Environment and Conservation of the
State of Tennessee.
      (dd)   “Transporting” means any moving of earth materials from one place
to another, other than such movement incidental to grading, as authorized by an
approved plan.
      (ee)   “Waters” or “Waters of the State” means any and all water, public
or private, on or beneath the surface of the ground, which are contained
within, flow through or border upon Tennessee or any portion thereof except
those bodies of water confined to and retained within the limits of private
property in single ownership which do not combine or effect a junction with
natural surface or underground waters.
   (4)   Compatibility. If any provision of these regulations or any other
provision of law impose overlapping or contradictory requirements, or contain
any restrictions covering any of the same subject matter, that provision which
is more restrictive or imposes higher standards or requirements shall govern.
These regulations do not relieve the applicant from provisions of any other
applicable codes, ordinances or regulations not explicitly repealed by these
regulations.
   (5)   Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of these regulations is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a
separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of these regulations.
   (6)   Permitting. The review and permitting of plans and specifications for
clearing and/or earthwork is not intended as approval of the overall layout,
structural design, grading procedures, situation control, engineer's reports or
construction procedures. These responsibilities shall remain with and be those
of the owner or his consultants.
   (7)   Disclaimer or liability. The issuance of either QLP permit coverage or
a Grading Permit by the City of Cookeville signifies only that the applicant
has met all the application requirements specified by these regulations,
including the submittal of plans for permit purposes shall not mean that those
plans have been checked in detail for technical competency. The developer and
his design consultant shall remain totally responsible for the adequacy of the
plans to protect neighboring properties, and the developer and his contractor
shall be responsible for constructing the project in accordance with the plans.
   These regulations are considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
shall not create a liability on the part of, or a cause of action against, the
City of Cookeville or any officer or employee thereof for any damages that
result from reliance on these regulations, or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. #001-08-09, Sept. 2001 as amended by Ord. #004-
06-11, July 2004, and Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, and Ord. #O18-10-27,
December, 2018, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-502. General Requirements.
      (a)   All land disturbing, construction or construction support
activities that cause off-site sedimentation or sediment discharges to the
municipal separate storm sewer system or waters of the state shall be in
violation of this chapter.
      (b)   No owner or operator of any property within the city shall commence
land disturbing activities unless he has obtained all applicable federal, state
and city permits.
      (c)   The issuance of either QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit
shall be conditioned upon the approval of all plan requirements, for the
applicable permit, by the Public Works Director. The city shall serve as the
plan approval agency only, and in no instance are its regulations construed as
designing the stormwater pollution prevention plan or other stormwater systems.
      (d)   No building permit shall be issued until the owner or operator has
obtained either QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit and is in compliance
with the permit, where the same is required by this chapter.
      (e)   All land disturbing activities shall employ adequate erosion and
sediment control best management practices.
      (f)   Federal and state agencies (e.g. Tennessee Valley Authority and
Tennessee Department of Transportation) are required by TDEC to obtain their
Permit for stormwater runoff from construction sites from TDEC. In those
instances, the federal and state agencies are required to obtain a Grading
Permit (regardless of the size of the disturbed area) from the City of
Cookeville as well as their Construction General Permit from TDEC so that City
requirements and approvals are also met.
   (2)   Exemptions from plans submittal. The following activities shall not
require submittal and approval of a stormwater pollution prevention plan, a
small lot erosion and sediment control plan, or a Grading Permit:
      (a)   For single family residence construction resulting in less than one
acre of disturbed area a grading permit will not be required in addition to the
Building Permit unless the proposed construction is part of a larger common
plan of development. Such construction shall remain responsible for controlling
erosion and for protecting adjacent properties and drainage facilities from
sedimentation in accordance with these regulations.
      (b)   Minor land disturbing activities such as home gardens and
individual home landscaping, repairs or maintenance work that are less than one
acre and are not part of a larger common plan of development;
      (c)   Additions or modifications to existing, individual, single-family
structures that are less than one acre and are not part of a larger common plan
of development;
      (d)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property, and emergency
repairs, provided that the land area disturbed shall be shaped and stabilized
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (e)   Existing nursery and agricultural operations conducted as a
permitted main or accessory use;
      (f)   State and federal projects subject to the submission requirements
of TDEC; and
      (g)   Public utility installations, less than one acre in disturbed area,
as follows: lateral sanitary sewer lines, water lines, storm sewer lines,
telephone lines, cable television lines, electrical lines and gas lines.
Although exempt, public agencies are required to notify the public works
department prior to starting any construction and to submit plans, if
requested, to allow coordination with other activities.
   (3)   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply to the exemptions
noted in subsection (2) above.
   (4)   Responsibility not waived. Although the activities listed in § 14-502
(2) may be undertaken without a permit, the persons conducting these excluded
activities shall remain responsible for controlling erosion and for protecting
adjacent properties and drainage facilities from sedimentation in accordance
with the provisions of these regulations.
   (5)   Hazardous conditions must be rectified. Whenever the Building Official
or the Public Works Director, or his designee, is made aware of and determines
that any existing land condition or exposed surface created or caused by means
of clearing, earthwork or other land disturbing activity has:
      (a)   Become a hazard to life and limb;
      (b)   Endangered property;
      (c)   Affected the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage
channel, or
      (d)   Caused erosion, the owner, upon receipt of notice in writing from
the Building Official or Public Works Director, or his designee, shall rectify
or eliminate the stated hazardous condition within the time period specified
therein to bring the property into conformance with the requirements with these
regulations.
   It shall be a violation of these regulations for the owner to fail to
eliminate the hazardous condition within that time.
   (6)   Soil Engineering Report. A soil engineering report will be required if
deemed necessary by the owner's architect, landscape architect, or civil
engineer. A soil engineering report may also be required by either the Public
Works Director or the Building Official. This report will include data
regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions
and recommendations for grading procedures and design criteria for corrective
measures when necessary, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy
of sites to be developed by the proposed grading.
   (7)   Engineering Geology Report. An engineering geology report shall be
required if deemed necessary by the owner's architect, landscape architect or
civil engineer. An engineering geology report may also be required by either
the Public Works Director or the Building Official. This report will include
adequate description of the geology of the site, conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of geological conditions of the proposed
development, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to
be developed by the proposed grading.
   (8)   Federal and State Permits. Approval by the City of Cookeville does not
relieve the applicant of responsibility for obtaining any permits required by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation - Division of Water Resources, Region IV of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or by any other federal or state agencies. Following is a
non-inclusive list of permits that may be required:
      (a)   U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Section 301 of the Clean Water Act
prohibits the discharge of dredged or fill materials into waters of the United
States unless the work has been previously authorized by a permit pursuant to
Section 404 of the same Act. Placement of dredged or fill material below
ordinary high water of any water in conjunction with drainage improvements
(e.g., channel realignments, concrete slope paving) will require a Department
of the Army permit prior to construction.
      The placement of dredged or fill material or any grading activities
within a wetland must also be in compliance with Section 404 of the Clean Water
Act.
      If a permit is required, approximately sixty (60) days would normally be
required for permit processing. Depending on the nature and location of the
work, it is possible that the work has been previously approved under authority
of the nationwide permit and individual processing would not be required.
      (b)   Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation - Division of
Water Resources. In accordance with the Tennessee Water Quality Act, Tennessee
Code Annotated, § 69-3-108, any activity which alters a course or physical
character of a stream, requires an Aquatic Resource Alteration Permit (ARAP).
This permit is required for activities such as stream channelization, stream
enlargement, dredging, or diversion in box culverts.
   (9)   Adoption of Standards.
      (a)   The design, installation, operation, maintenance, inspection,
record keeping and reporting of construction site runoff best management
practices intended for erosion prevention and the control of sediment and other
construction related wastes or pollutants shall be performed in accordance with
the requirements of the Tennessee Construction General Permit that is effective
at the time the stormwater pollution prevention plan is approved. Where the
provisions of this section conflict or overlap with the Tennessee Construction
General Permit or the Tennessee Erosion & Sediment Control Handbook, the
regulation which is more restrictive or imposes higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
      (b)   The City adopts as its erosion and sediment control design
standards and best management practices manual the Tennessee Erosion & Sediment
Control Handbook which is incorporated herein by reference. This handbook
includes a list of acceptable BMPs, including the specific design performance
criteria, operation and maintenance requirements for each BMP.
      (c)   The requirements set forth in the Tennessee Construction General
Permit and in the handbook may be updated and expanded at the discretion of the
Public Works Director, based on improvements in engineering, science,
monitoring and local maintenance experience.
      (d)   Erosion and sediment control BMPs that are designed, constructed
and maintained in accordance with the BMP criteria set forth in the Tennessee
Construction General Permit and the handbook shall be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality performance standards required by the city.
      (e)   Additional requirements for discharges into impaired or exceptional
Tennessee waters that are set forth in the Tennessee Construction General
Permit shall be implemented for all priority construction activities. The
Public Works Director, at his discretion, may require BMPs that conform to a
higher than minimum standard for priority construction activities, or for
exceptional Tennessee waters or where deemed necessary.
   (10)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
      (a)   The SWPPP is required for obtaining QLP Permit coverage for sites
with a disturbed area greater than one acre. A SWPPP shall present in detail
the best management practices that will be employed to minimize erosion and
control sedimentation.
      (b)   The plan shall be sealed in accordance with the Tennessee
Construction General Permit.
      (c)   Best management practices presented in the plan shall conform to
the requirements found in the Tennessee Erosion & Sediment Control Handbook,
and shall meet or exceed the requirements of the Tennessee Construction General
Permit.
      (d)   The plan shall include measures to protect legally protected state
or federally listed threatened or endangered aquatic fauna or flora or critical
habitat (if applicable).
      (e)   The plan submitted shall be subject to any additional requirements
set forth in the city's subdivision regulations, zoning ordinance, erosion and
sediment control policy and any other applicable city regulations.
      (f)   Riparian buffer zones shall meet the requirements both in
accordance with the Tennessee Construction General Permit and with the Buffer
Zone Ordinance for the City of Cookeville.
      (g)   Construction of the site in accordance with the approved plan must
commence within one year from the approval date of the stormwater pollution
prevention plan, or the stormwater pollution prevention plan will become null
and void and the plan must be resubmitted for approval.
      (h)   Stormwater pollution prevention plans shall include the components
required by the Tennessee Construction General Permit and any other information
deemed necessary by the Public Works Director. See the Erosion and Sediment
Control Policy for additional plan requirements.
   (11)   Small lot erosion and sediment control plan contents.
      (a)   Land disturbing activities that affect less than one acre and are
not exempt from obtaining a Grading Permit, shall submit and obtain approval of
a small lot erosion and sediment control plan and obtain a Grading Permit prior
to obtaining a building permit.
      (b)   The plan shall include such information as may be required by the
Public Works Director consistent with this chapter. See the Erosion and
Sediment Control Policy for additional plan requirements.
      (c)   The Public Works Director has the discretion to require a fully
engineered stormwater pollution prevention plan. (Ord. #O13-01-01, January
2013, as amended by Ord. #O18-01-01, March 2018, and by Ord. #O24-06-18, July
2024)
14-503. Compliance.
   (1)   Conformity to approved plan.
      (a)   The approved stormwater pollution prevention plan or the small lot
erosion and sediment control plan shall be followed during the entire duration
of the construction at the site.
      (b)   The Public Works Director may require reports or records from the
permittee or person responsible for carrying out the plan to ensure compliance.
      (c)   No land disturbing activity shall be commenced without prior plan
approval by the Public Works Director and the issuance of either QLP Permit
coverage or a Grading Permit.
      (d)   Priority construction activities shall not commence until after the
owner or operator has attended a pre-construction meeting with the Public Works
Director.
   (2)   Amendments to approved plans. The permittee shall modify and update
the plan in accordance with the requirements of the Tennessee Construction
General Permit.
   (3)   Maintenance.
      (a) Maintenance, site assessments and inspections of the best management
practices shall be implemented in the manner specified in the Tennessee
Construction General Permit and the Tennessee Erosion & Sediment Control
Handbook by qualified personnel that are provided by the owner or operator of
the land disturbing activity.
      (b)   The owner or operator shall at all times properly operate and
maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control and related
appurtenances which are installed or used by the owner or operator to achieve
compliance with this chapter. Proper operation and maintenance requires the
operation of backup or auxiliary facilities or similar systems, installed by an
owner or operator only when necessary to achieve compliance with this chapter.
      (c)   Any inadequate control measures or control measures in disrepair
shall be repaired, replaced or modified, as may be necessary, in accordance
with the inspection and maintenance timeframes set forth in the Tennessee
Construction General Permit and the maintenance guidance provided in the
Tennessee Erosion & Sediment Control Handbook.
      (d)   If sediment escapes the permitted property, the permittee shall
remove off-site accumulations in accordance with the requirements of the
Tennessee Construction General Permit.
      (e)   Records shall be retained in accordance with the Tennessee
Construction General Permit.
   (4)   Inspections by the City.
      (a)   The City shall have the right to enter onto private property for
the purposes of conducting unrestricted periodic inspections of all land
disturbing activities to verify compliance with the approved plan.
      (b)   The City shall have the right to enter onto private property for
the purposes of investigating a suspected violation of this chapter.
      (c)   Failure on the part of an owner or operator to allow such
inspections by the City shall be cause for the issuance of a stop work order,
withholding of a certificate of occupancy, and civil penalties. (Ord. #O13-01-
01, January 2013, as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-504. Fees.
   Neither QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit shall be issued until the
fee prescribed below has been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be
released until the additional fee, due to an increase in the project size, is
paid.
   FEE PER ACRE OF PROJECT
   Project less than One Acre               $      50.00
   Project more than One Acre but less than 5 Acres            250.00
   Project more than 5 Acres but less than 50 Acres            1,000.00
   Project more than 50 Acres but less than 150 Acres            4,000.00
   Project more than 150 Acres                     7,500.00
Where work for which either QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit is required
by these regulations is started prior to obtaining said permit, the fees herein
specified shall be doubled, but the payment of such double fee shall not
relieve any persons from fully complying with the requirements of these
regulations in the execution of the work not from any penalties prescribed
herein.
(Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
   (1)   For work requiring either QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit, the
property owner shall submit to the Public Works Department a warranty of
improvements to assure that the work is completed in accordance with the
permitted plans and specifications. Said warranty of improvements shall be in
the form of a letter of credit, redeemable at a bank located within the
Cookeville city limits, or certified check.
   (2)   At a minimum the warranty of improvements shall remain in force for
one (1) year after the anticipated date of the completion of the installation
of vegetation. The expiration date shall be specified in the warranty of
improvements along with an exact description of the work being guaranteed.
   (3)   The warranty of improvements for clearing operations only shall be in
the amount of $1,000.00 per acre for each acre or fraction thereof disturbed or
affected by such operations.
   (4)   The warranty of improvements for earthwork or clearing and earthwork
operations shall be in the amount of $3,000.00 per acre or each acre or
fraction thereof disturbed or affected by such operations.
   (5)   Additional surety, equal to double the amounts required in 14-505(3)
and 14-505(4) herein, shall be required where clearing or earthwork is
performed in areas designated as floodways, floodplains, sinkhole retention
areas or if determined by the Public Works Director, the site is susceptible to
landslides. (Ord.#001-08-09, Sept. 2001, as amended by Ord.#004-06-11, July
2004 and Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, and Ord. #O-18-10-27, December 2018,
and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-505. Warranty of improvements required.
   (1)   For work requiring either QLP Permit coverage or a Grading Permit, the
property owner shall submit to the Public Works Department a warranty of
improvements to assure that the work is completed in accordance with the
permitted plans and specifications. Said warranty of improvements shall be in
the form of a letter of credit, redeemable at a bank located within the
Cookeville city limits, or certified check.
   (2)   At a minimum the warranty of improvements shall remain in force for
one (1) year after the anticipated date of the completion of the installation
of vegetation. The expiration date shall be specified in the warranty of
improvements along with an exact description of the work being guaranteed.
   (3)   The warranty of improvements for clearing operations only shall be in
the amount of $1,000.00 per acre for each acre or fraction thereof disturbed or
affected by such operations.
   (4)   The warranty of improvements for earthwork or clearing and earthwork
operations shall be in the amount of $3,000.00 per acre or each acre or
fraction thereof disturbed or affected by such operations.
   (5)   Additional surety, equal to double the amounts required in 14-505(3)
and 14-505(4) herein, shall be required where clearing or earthwork is
performed in areas designated as floodways, floodplains, sinkhole retention
areas or if determined by the Public Works Director, the site is susceptible to
landslides. (Ord.#001-08-09, Sept. 2001, as amended by Ord.#004-06-11, July
2004 and Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, and Ord. #O-18-10-27, December 2018,
and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-506. Administration.
   (1)   Department of Public Works. This department is responsible for
reviewing all plans submitted with applications for QLP Permit coverage,
Grading Permits and for site inspections to insure compliance with these
regulations. The plan review shall be conducted by the Director of Public Works
or his designee, and site inspections will be conducted by the Public Works
Director or his designee. Once the application has been approved the Public
Works Department is responsible for collecting fees and warranty of
improvements and issuing the permit.
   (2)   Right of entry. The Public Works Director or any of his duly
authorized representatives may enter upon the premises of any land located
within the Cookeville, Tennessee city limits for the purpose of inspecting the
site before, during and after construction to determine compliance with these
regulations. (Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18,
July 2024)
14-507. Enforcement.
   (1)   Enforcement authority. The Director of the Public Works Department
(hereafter referred to as Director) or his designees shall have the authority
to issue notices of violation and citations, and to impose the civil penalties
to anyone that violates this chapter who violates the provisions of any permit
issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply with any
lawful communication or notice to abate or take corrective action. The
director's enforcement authority includes the following sections as set forth
in the City's Enforcement Response Plan (ERP).
   (2)   Notifications of violation.
      (a)   Written Notice. Whenever the Director finds that any permittee or
any other person has failed to comply with these regulations or a permit or
order issued hereunder, the Director or his designee may serve upon such person
written notice of the violation. Within the notice of violation will be a list
of failures that have led to the violation and measures required to correct the
deficiencies. Such measures might include repair of existing Best Management
Practices (BMPs), installation of new/additional BMPs, containment of
discharged materials, cleanup of said materials, and a timetable for meeting
the goals.
      (b)   Consent Orders. The Director or his designee is empowered to enter
into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
person to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative
orders issued pursuant to paragraphs (d) and (e) below.
      (c)   Show Cause Hearing. The Director may order a person who violates
this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The hearing shall be before the Public
Works Director. Notice shall be served on the person specifying the time and
place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action and the reasons for such
action, a request that the violator show cause why this proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served
personally or by registered mail or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
      (d)   Compliance Order. When the Director or his designee finds that any
person has violated or continues to violate this chapter or a permit or order
issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the violator directing that,
following a specific time period, adequate structures, devices, be installed or
procedures implemented and properly operated. Orders may also contain such
other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address
noncompliance, including the construction of appropriate structures,
installation of devices, self-monitoring, and best management practices.
      (e)   Cease and Desist Orders. When the Director finds that any person
has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued
hereunder, the Director or his designee may issue an order to cease and desist
all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
         (i)   Comply forthwith; or
         (ii)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge. (Ord. #O13-01-01, January
2013, as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-508. Penalties.
   (1)   Violations. Any person who shall commit any act declared unlawful
under this chapter, who violates any provision of this chapter, who violates
the provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or
refuses to comply with any lawful communication or notice to abate or take
corrective action by the Public Works Department, shall be guilty of a civil
offence.
   (2)   Penalties. Under the authority provided in Tennessee Code Annotated §
68-221-1106, the municipality declares that any person violating the provisions
of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the Public Works Department
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per day for each day of violation. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (3)   Measuring civil penalties. In assessing a civil penalty, the director
of the Public Works Department may consider:
      (a)   The harm done to the public health or the environment;
      (b)   Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic
deterrent to the illegal activity;
      (c)   The economic benefit gained by the violator;
      (d)   The amount of effort put forth by the violator to remedy this
violation;
      (e)   An unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the
municipality;
      (f)   The amount of penalty established by ordinance or resolution for
specific categories or violations; and
      (g)   Any equities of the situation which outweigh the benefit of
imposing any penalty or damage assessment.
   (4)   Recovery of damages and costs. In addition to the civil penalty in
subsection (2) above, the municipality may recover:
      (a)   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the municipality,
which may include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations
of, and enforcing compliance with, this chapter or any other actual damages
caused by the violation.
      (b)   The costs of the municipality's maintenance of stormwater best
management practices when the owner of such facilities fails to maintain them
as required by this chapter.
   (5)   Other remedies. The municipality may bring legal action to enjoin the
continuing violation of this chapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at
law or equity, shall be no defense of any such actions.
   (6)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one (1) or more of the remedies set forth herein has been
sought or granted.
   (7)   Referral to TDEC. In accordance with the City's Enforcement Response
Plan and the NPDES Permit requirements, the Public Works Department may also
notify TDEC of violations. (Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, as amended by Ord.
#O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-509. Appeals.
Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated §68-221-1106(d), any person aggrieved by
the imposition of a civil penalty or damage assessment as provided by this
chapter may appeal said penalty or damage assessment to the Board of
Environmental Appeals.
   (1)   Appeals to be in writing. The appeal shall be in writing and filed
with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the civil penalty and/or
damage assessment is served in any manner authorized by law.
   (2)   Public hearing. Upon receipt of any appeal, the Board of Environmental
Appeals shall hold a public hearing within thirty (30) days. Ten (10) days
prior notice of the time, date, and location of said hearing shall be published
in a daily newspaper of general circulation. Ten (10) days' notice by
registered mail shall also be provided to the aggrieved party, such notice to
be sent to the address provided by the aggrieved party at the time of appeal.
   (3)   Appealing decisions of the Board of Environmental Appeals. Any alleged
violator may appeal a decision of the Board of Environmental Appeals pursuant
to the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 27, Chapter 8.
   (4)   If a petition for review of such damage assessment or civil penalty is
not filed within thirty (30) days after the damage assessment or civil penalty
is served in any manner authorized by law, the violator shall be deemed to have
consented to the damage assessment or civil penalty, and it shall become final.
(Ord. #O13-01-01, January 2013, as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-510. Erosion and Sediment Control Policy.
   (1)   For Land Disturbing Activities Less Than One Acre.
      (a)   Grading Permit application required. To obtain a Grading Permit the
owner shall first file with the Public Works Department an application in
writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Each applicant shall provide:
         i.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner or owners
of the subject property.
         ii.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the contractor and
any subcontractor(s) who shall perform the land disturbing activity, and who
shall implement the plans for erosion and sediment control.
         iii.   The address of the subject property, and a map or plat of the
property upon which the limits of the land disturbing activity is shown.
         iv.   If required under these rules three (3) copies each of the
grading/drainage plan and the erosion and sediment control plan shall be
submitted with the application; see subsection (3), Plan Requirements.
         v.   A statement setting forth the nature, extent and purpose of the
land disturbing activity, including the size of the area for which the permit
shall be applicable, and a schedule for the starting and completion dates of
the land disturbing activity.
         vi.   A certification by the owner that prior to beginning any work he
agrees to the following:
            (A)   Hold the City of Cookeville, its officers, agents and
employees, harmless from any and all claims made against the City of Cookeville
which arise out of any action or omission of the owner, contractor or
subcontractor, or any of their officers, employees or agents, and any and all
claims which result from any condition arising out of, created or maintained by
the owner, contractor or subcontractor or any of their officers, employees or
agents.
            (B)   That no work, including clearing and/or earthwork shall be
performed without first installing all temporary erosion control measures,
unless approved by the Public Works Department.
            (C)   That the applicant has read the application and that all
information contained therein is true and correct.
            (D)   That the applicant agrees to comply with all city ordinances
and state laws regulating this construction.
            (E)   That the applicant is the owner or is authorized to act as
the owner's agent for the described work.
   (2)   For Land Disturbing Activities Greater Than One Acre.
      (a)   QLP Permit coverage application required. To obtain coverage under
the Construction General Permit through the QLP a Notice of Intent (NOI)
application shall be required for any project that formerly would require a
NPDES Construction General Permit as would have been available from the
Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation.
         i.   Each applicant shall provide:
            (A)   Site or project name.
            (B)   Street address or location.
            (C)   Site description.
            (D)   County.
            (E)   QLP/MS4 jurisdiction.
            (F)   Start date.
            (G)   Estimated end date.
            (H)   Latitude (dd°.dddd) and longitude (dd°.dddd).
            (I)   Acres disturbed.
            (J)   Total acres.
            (K)   Information as to the presence of streams or wetlands
adjacent to the construction site.
            (L)   Wetlands delineation report if wetlands are present.
            (M)   Aquatic Resource Alterations Permit (ARAP) number if
relevant.
            (N)   Receiving waters name if known.
            (O)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
            (P)   Location Map.
            (Q)   Site owner/Developer contact information.
            (R)   Owner/Developer Certification.
            (S)   Contractor Certification.
         ii.   QLP Permit applications must be accompanied by three (3) sets of
grading/drainage plan and the erosion and sediment control plan. If a project
involves clearing only, this requirement may be waived by the Public Works
Department. See subsection (3), Plan Requirements, for information on drawings
required.
      (b)   Standards.
         i.   The design, installation, operation, maintenance, inspection,
record keeping and reporting of construction site runoff best management
practices intended for erosion prevention and the control of sediment and other
construction related wastes or pollutants shall be performed in accordance with
the requirements of the Tennessee Construction General Permit that is effective
at the time the stormwater pollution prevention plan is approved.
         ii.   The city adopts as its erosion and sediment control design
standards and best management practices manual the Tennessee Erosion & Sediment
Control Handbook which is incorporated herein by reference. This handbook
includes a list of acceptable BMPs, including the specific design performance
criteria, operation and maintenance requirements for each BMP.
         iii.   The requirements set forth in the Tennessee Construction
General Permit and in the handbook may be updated and expanded at the
discretion of the Public Works Director, based on improvements in engineering,
science, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
         iv.   Erosion and sediment control BMPs that are designed, constructed
and maintained in accordance with the BMP criteria set forth in the Tennessee
Construction General Permit and the handbook shall be presumed to meet the
minimum water quality performance standards required by the city.
         v.   Additional requirements for discharges into impaired or
exceptional Tennessee waters that are set forth in the Tennessee Construction
General Permit shall be implemented for all priority construction activities.
The Public Works Director, in his discretion, may require BMPs that conform to
a higher than minimum standard for priority construction activities, or for
exceptional Tennessee waters or where deemed necessary.
         vi.   The following certification signed by either the engineer or the
surveyor regarding the presence or absence of water resources on the site:
   CERTIFICATE OF PRESENCE OF WATER RESOURCES ON SITE
   I hereby certify that to the best of my knowledge any and all on site water
resources are located and identified on this plan. Water resources are defined
as streams, ponds, wetlands, springs, reservoirs.
   ______________________      _______________________________
   Date Signed            Engineer/Surveyor's Signature
   (3)   Plan Requirements.
      (a)   QLP Permit coverage and Grading Permit applications must be
accompanied by three (3) copies of grading/drainage plan and the erosion and
sediment control plan. If a project involves clearing only, this requirement
may be waived by the Public Works Department.
      (b)   Plans will be drawn to scale and shall be of sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed and show in detail that
they will conform to the provisions of these regulations and all relevant laws,
ordinances and rules. The first sheet of each set of plans shall give the
location and the name and address of the owner and the person by whom they were
prepared. The plan shall be prepared by a professional engineer registered in
the State of Tennessee.
      (c)   Plans shall include the following information:
         i.   General vicinity of the proposed site.
         ii.   Property limits and accurate contours of the existing ground in
two (2) foot intervals, and details of terrain and area drainage. Contour
intervals other than two (2) feet may be approved by the Director of Public
Works upon request should the reason for the exception have validity.
         iii.   Proposed contours using the same contour interval as in
subsection (3)(c)ii. above, as well as proposed drainage channels and related
construction.
         iv.   Detailed plans of all surface and subsurface drainage devices,
walls, cribbing, dams and other protective devices to be constructed with, or
as a part of, the proposed work together with a map showing the drainage area
and the estimated runoff of the area served by any drains.
         v.   Location of any buildings or structures on the property where
work is to be performed and the location of any buildings or structures on land
of adjacent property owners which are within fifteen (15) feet of the property
or which may be affected by the proposed grading operations.
         vi.   All elevations must be stated in mean sea level datum and this
fact indicated in a note on the plan sheet.
         vii.   Areas of special flood hazard and/or sinkhole retention areas
shall be shown on all site plans where applicable. Areas of special flood
hazard shall be identified by the Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Putnam County,
Tennessee and Incorporated Areas dated May 16, 2007, or any subsequent
amendments to said maps. Sinkhole retention areas shall be identified by the
Sinkhole Retention Maps of the City of Cookeville or as determined by the
Director of Public Works.
         viii.   Specifications shall contain information covering construction
and material requirements. It shall be acceptable to reference existing
specifications that have been approved by the Director of Public Works, and
that are on file in the Public Works Department.
         ix.   Erosion and sediment controls.
      (d)   The drainage plan must be prepared by a registered civil engineer
proficient in the field of hydrology and hydraulics and licensed in the State
of Tennessee. The plan may be submitted as part of the grading plan, but must
be clearly identified as a "drainage plan". Drainage plans will be drawn to an
appropriate scale that will enable ready identification and recognition of
submitted information and will include:
         i.   Flow lines of surface water onto and off the site.
         ii.   Building pads and existing and proposed finished floor and
street elevations if building construction is proposed.
         iii.   Existing and proposed drainage channels, including drainage
swales, wetlands, ditches and berms.
         iv.   Locations of all manmade facilities, such as buildings, parking
lots, sidewalks, etc.
         v.   Location and design of any proposed facilities for storage or
conveyance of runoff into indicated drainage channels, including sumps, basins,
channels, culverts, retention or detention ponds, bio-retention facilities,
storm drains and drop inlets.
         vi.   Estimates of existing and increased runoff resulting from the
proposed improvements and a statement explaining the amount of the proposed
effects on the existing drainage system and adjacent property.
         vii.   Plans and specifications for all drainage provisions, retaining
walls, planting, anti-erosion devices, or other protective devices whether
temporary or permanent to be constructed in connection with or as part of the
proposed project.
         viii.   A map depicting the drainage area of land tributary to the
site and a statement explaining the amount of estimated runoff used to
determine the design characteristics of any drainage device.
         ix.   Upstream drainage shall be considered in the design
calculations.
         x.   Downstream improvements may be required of the developer if such
improvements are required to handle stormwater generated by the proposed
development.
         xi.   The requirements of Title 14, Chapter 7, Stormwater Management
shall be met for all applicable developments.
   (4)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan Requirements.
      (a)   An erosion and sediment control plan and a narrative Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) is required whenever QLP Permit coverage is
required. In addition, a separate erosion and sediment control plan may be
required for a Grading Permit if the Public Works Department determines that
the development is so complex that soil erosion and sediment controls cannot be
included in the grading plan in a clear and understandable manner or if it is
determined that the site is in a special hazard area.
      (b)   The erosion and sediment control plan shall be prepared by a
professional engineer registered in the state of Tennessee. This plan will be
clearly identified as an "erosion and sediment control plan". A Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan must be developed by persons meeting the requirements
for SWPPP preparation as required by the Tennessee Construction General Permit
that is effective at the time the stormwater pollution prevention plan is
approved.
      (c)   Erosion and sediment control plans will conform to the requirements
of the Tennessee Construction General Permit.
   (5)   Standards for Erosion and Sediment Control Plans. The Tennessee
Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook (latest edition) has been adopted by the
City of Cookeville as an approved best management practices manual. Other
specifications may be used upon review and approval of the Public Works
Director.
   (6)   Requirements for Erosion and Sediment Control.
      (a)   The design, installation, operation, maintenance, inspection,
record keeping and reporting of construction site runoff best management
practices intended for erosion prevention and sediment control and other
construction related wastes or pollutants shall be performed in accordance with
the requirements of the Tennessee Construction General Permit that is effective
at the time the Grading Permit or the QLP Permit coverage is obtained.
      (b)   The requirements set forth in the Tennessee Construction General
Permit and the Tennessee Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook may be updated
and expanded at the discretion of the Director of Public Works, based on
improvements in engineering, science, monitoring and local maintenance
experience.
      (c)   Neighboring persons and property shall be protected from damage or
loss resulting from excessive stormwater runoff, soil erosion or deposition
upon private property or public right-of-way of water transported silt and
debris. Adjacent property owners shall be protected from land devaluation due
to exposed bare banks.
   (7)   Permitting Procedures. The following procedures for applying for
either a Grading Permit or QLP Permit coverage shall apply:
      (a)   Pre-application conference. A pre-application conference with the
Public Works Department is required to assure timely permit application
preparation and review. This conference will be used to determine if a proposed
project qualifies for exemption and to determine how technical guidelines and
criteria should be applied. At this time a decision will be made as to which
permit is required for the project.
      (b)   Submittal. Submission of the permit application, plans (one (1)
set) and any other required submittals, i.e. drainage calculations, water
quality is to be made to the Public Works Department. Plans and submittals for
a Building Permit must be submitted to the Codes Department for the review by
the plans examiner.
      (c)   Review. The Public Works Department will review the permit
application to ensure that all information is provided in accordance with the
regulations. Should the application be found to be incomplete, it will be
returned to the applicant with a written request for additional information.
The application will not be processed until such time as any requested
information or reports are submitted.
      (d)   Permit issuance. If the work described in the permit application,
including drawings and/or SWPPP, conforms to the requirements of these
regulations and any other pertinent laws and ordinances, and when the fees and
warranty of improvements have been paid, a Grading Permit or QLP Permit
coverage will be issued. Alternately if the permit application does not meet
the requirements the application will be denied and a written explanation will
be provided to the applicant. The issuance of either permit will not be
construed to mean approval for violation of any of the provisions of these
regulations or any other law or regulation; and such permit will not be valid,
except insofar as the work or use that it authorizes is lawful. The issuance of
a Grading Permit shall not prevent the Director of Public Works from requiring
the correction of errors or changes due to unforeseen problems in permitted
plans and specifications. The Director of Public Works may require operations
and project design be modified if significant problems occur which were not
considered at the time the permit was issued. The issuance of a Grading Permit
or QLP Permit coverage in no way implies that a building permit will be issued.
      (e)   Revisions to approved plans. Prior to or during construction,
should changes be anticipated that would constitute a revision of the plans
already approved by the Public Works Director, the approved plans are to be
revised and resubmitted in triplicate with a letter stating why such changes
are believed necessary. Approval or disapproval by the Public Works Director
will be given in written form.
      (f)   Expiration. Every permit issued by the Public Works Director under
provisions of these regulations shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within ninety (90)
days from the date of issuance of the permit, provided that consecutive renewal
of such permit may be granted, at no additional cost, upon written request to
the Public Works Director with good cause shown. The work authorized by such
permit shall not be suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is
commenced and shall be carried to completion or the permit shall be void. If
work is suspended or abandoned, the required warranty of improvements may be
issued to correct or eliminate erosion, drainage problems, or hazardous
conditions.
      (g)   Suspension or revocation. The Public Works Director shall suspend
or revoke a permit issued under provisions of these regulations by giving
notice in writing to the owner whenever the permit is issued in error, on the
basis of incorrect information supplied or in violation of any ordinance,
regulation or any of the provisions of these regulations.
   (8)   Construction Procedures.
      (a)   Permit required prior to commencing any work. A person, firm, or
corporation required to obtain a Grading Permit or QLP Permit coverage in
compliance with these regulations must do so prior to commencing any work
pertaining to the permit. Corrective measures, including but not limited to
stop work orders, penalties, and injunctions, may be taken as required to
enforce the terms of this requirement.
      (b)   Posting of permit. Work requiring a Grading Permit or QLP Permit
coverage shall not be commenced until the permit holder or his agent has posted
the permit and SWPPP if one is required, in a conspicuous place on the front of
the premises. The permit/SWPPP shall be protected from the weather and be
placed to allow easy access for recording entries. The permit shall remain
posted until the certificate of occupancy has been issued and/or a notice of
termination has been turned into the Public Works Director on QLP Permit
coverage.
      (c)   Notification of construction. After posting the permit, the
permittee must first install all erosion and sediment control measures as shown
on the plans. All clearing and/or earthwork are subject to inspection by the
city, and should it be determined that additional erosion control measures are
needed they shall be promptly acquired and installed by the permittee.
      (d)   Observation of construction. The owner shall be responsible for the
ongoing observation, review and field issuance of reports in the actual
earthwork. This responsibility shall include, but need not be limited to,
testing, inspection and issuing field reports as to the establishment of line,
grade and drainage of the project area. Civil engineering record documents
shall be preserved in accordance with state law. Permittees with QLP Permit
coverage are responsible for documented inspections on approved inspection
forms and shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of the
Tennessee Construction General Permit that is effective at the time the
stormwater pollution prevention plan is approved.
      (e)   Notification of non-compliance. If the owner, his contractor or his
consultants finds that the work is not being done in conformance with these
regulations or the permitted plans, the discrepancies, if not corrected in a
timely manner, must be reported immediately in writing to the Director of
Public Works. Plans for corrective measures must be submitted to the Director
of Public Works along with an appropriate schedule for completion of such
corrections.
      (f)   Replacement of contractors or consultants. If the owner's
contractor, civil engineer, engineering geologist or the testing agency of
record, are changed during the course of the work, the owner shall replace the
contractor or consultants of record with a qualified individual, and will
notify the Director of Public Works in writing. Those with QLP Permit coverage
are required to have the contractor listed on their QLP NOI and any change in
the contractor must be noted and the new contractor must sign the QLP Permit.
      (g)   Notification of completion. Holders of a Grading Permit must notify
the Director of Public Works when the project has been completed, including
installation of any permanent stormwater management facilities in accordance
with the final permitted plans. Those with QLP Permit coverage must complete a
Notice of Termination (NOT) form provided in accordance with the requirements
of the Tennessee Construction General Permit that is effective at the time the
stormwater pollution prevention plan is approved. Once a NOT has been received
by the Public Works Department, the department will review the NOT and inspect
the site to determine if coverage under the QLP permit can be terminated or if
there are deficiencies that must be corrected prior to permit termination. Any
deficiencies are discovered the permittee will be notified in writing within
thirty (30) days of receiving the NOT. When the site meets the termination
criteria, the NOT should be re-submitted.
      (h)   Release of warranty of improvements. One (1) year following the
installation of permanent vegetation, the owner may request the Public Works
Department check the vegetation on site and if it is found to have seventy-
five percent (75%) coverage and be in good condition the warranty of
improvements will be released. If it is discovered that the vegetation is not
established, the warranty of improvements must be kept by the city until such
time as the vegetation is well established. Should the warranty of improvements
be in the form of a letter of credit, upon receiving notice that the letter of
credit needs to be renewed the owner will provide the Public Works Department
with a letter of credit for an additional year.
   (9)   Checklist.
      (a)   Have a pre-application meeting with the Public Works Department.
      (b)   You need three (3) sets each of: grading plan, erosion and sediment
control plan, and drainage plan.
      (c)   One (1) set of drainage/detention calculations.
      (d)   Determine the size of the disturbed area.
         i.   If less than one (1) acre you need to apply for a Grading Permit
– your permit cost will be fifty dollars ($50.00) and for work involving more
than $3,000.00 in value a warranty of improvements of $3,000.00 for grading or
$1,000.00 for clearing will be required – either a cashier's check or a letter
of credit – you may skip the following steps unless notified by Public Works
Department.
         ii.   If greater than one (1) acre you need QLP Permit coverage –
Continue on to subsection (9)(e) below.
      (e)   You must complete and turn in subsections (9)(a) – (d) above and
complete a Notice of Intent (NOI) available online at:
   www.cookeville-tn.org/pw/stormwater-management
      (f)   You must provide a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
which meets the requirements of the Tennessee General Construction Permit.
      (g)   Your QLP Permit coverage cost is determined by disturbed acreage:
         i.   > 1 acre & < 5 acres   $250
         ii.   > 5 acres & < 50 acres   $1,000
         iii.   > 50 acres & < 150 acres   $4,000
         iv.   > 150 acres   $7,500
      (h)   You will be required to submit a warranty of improvements in the
amount of $3,000.00/acre or fraction thereof for grading or $1,000.00/acre or
fraction thereof for clearing – either a cashier's check or a letter of credit.
(as added by Ord. #O16-06-16, August 2016, and as amended by Ord. #O24-06-18,
July 2024)
CHAPTER 6
CONTROL OF NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
SECTION
   
14-601.   Statement of purpose.
   
14-602.   Definitions.
   
14-603.   Property owners to maintain system on private lands.
   
14-604.   City to maintain system on public lands.
   
14-605.   Unlawful to alter or obstruct the natural storm water drainage system
without approval from the public works department.
   
14-606.   Installation of culverts for driveways or entrances.
   
14-607.   Installation of culverts within the right-of-way.
   
14-608.   Stormwater detention criteria.
   
14-609.   Notification of violation.
   
14-610.   Failure to comply with an order to correct a violation.
   
14-611.   Penalties for failure to comply.
   
14-612.   Payment of costs.
   
14-613.   Public works projects.
14-601. Statement of purpose.
   It is hereby determined and established by the City of Cookeville that in
order to prevent a threat or menace to life, property, public health, and
public welfare the natural storm water drainage systems of the community shall
be regulated in order to prevent the serious consequences of flooding.
(1970 Code, § 4-1101)
14-602. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (1)   "Natural storm water drainage system." The system of drainage ditches,
channels, streams, creeks or rivers or any other means by which water is
channeled to the low point in a drainage basin. Included in this definition are
both naturally occurring and manmade drainage facilities. Also included in this
definition are sinks, sinkholes, sinkhole retention areas, and floodways as
defined under the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   (2)   "Drainage basin." A naturally occurring area in which water will flow
by gravity to a common sinkhole or stream.
   (3)   "Sinkhole." A hollow or depression in the land surface by which water
flow, drains or otherwise enters the underground drainage system; also known as
a "sink".
   (4)   "Sinkhole retention area." The area or basin surrounding sinkholes
which provides water retention capacity and are further identified in the "SRA
- Sinkhole Retention Area" district of the Cookeville Zoning Code.
   (5)   "Drainage ditch." Any natural or man-made ditch, way, or indention in
the land surface through which water is channeled.
(1970 Code, § 4-1102)
14-603. Property owners to maintain system on private lands.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of each parcel of land within
the City of Cookeville to maintain and repair all portions of the natural storm
water drainage system that crosses said property. In addition, it shall be the
responsibility of each property owner to prevent any and all material or other
debris on his property from being carried beyond the boundaries of said
property by the flow of water through the natural storm water drainage system.
(1970 Code, § 4-1103)
14-604. City to maintain system on public lands.
   It shall be the responsibility of the City of Cookeville to maintain and
repair all portions of the natural storm water drainage system located within
the public rights-of-way or upon drainage easements acquired by the city as a
part of a public works project approved by the city council.
(1970 Code, § 4-1104)
14-605. Unlawful to alter or obstruct the natural storm water drainage system
without approval from the public works department.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to cause or allow any alteration
of any portion of the natural storm drainage system in any manner or form which
could hinder or impede the flow of water into or through said system without
first obtaining approval from the public works department. Information provided
to the public works department for the proposed alterations must include a
description of the proposed changes and may include such drainage calculations
as shall be necessary to document to the director of public works that the
carrying capacity of the natural storm water drainage system will not be
diminished by said modifications to a capacity less than required to convey a
100-year rainfall event, assuming one-hundred percent (100%) development of the
drainage basin.
(1970 Code, § 4-1105, modified, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-606. Installation of culverts for driveways or entrances.
   Upon request by the property owner and approval by the director, the public
works department may install culverts on the public right-of-way for the
purpose of providing access to residential, commercial, industrial and other
properties. The property owner shall provide the appropriately sized concrete,
HDPE or metal pipe as deemed necessary by the director of public works or city
engineer. The maximum amount of culvert installed by the public works
department under the provisions of this section and on any parcel or tract of
land shall be limited to the amount needed to provide the maximum width of a
driveway or entrance allowed under the provisions of the Cookeville Zoning
Code. No fee shall be  charged for the installation of a culvert at a driveway
or entrance. Should catch basins, fill dirt, seeding, end walls, or other
drainage structures be deemed necessary by the director of public works as a
result of the installation of a culvert for driveways or entrances, the
property owner requesting the defined service shall provide such materials.
(1970 Code, § 4-1106, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-607. Installation of culverts within the right-of-way.
   Upon request by the property owner and approval by the director, the public
works department may install culverts on the public right-of-way along the
frontage of any residential, commercial, industrial and other property.
Requests for the installation of culverts under the provisions of this section
shall be reviewed by the public works department to determine if it is
appropriate and will cause no problems in the drainage area. The property owner
requesting the service defined herein shall be provided a list of materials,
including all culvert, catch basins, end walls, or required drainage
structures, as determined to be required for the installation; these materials
will be provided by the property owner. The public works department will
install the culvert and other drainage structures at no cost to the property
owner for equipment and labor.
(1970 Code, § 4-1107, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-608. Stormwater detention criteria.
   For storm water detention criteria see Title 14, Chapter 7, Section 12 [§
14-712] of the Cookeville Municipal Code.
(deleted by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-609. Notification of violation.
   Whenever any obstruction, alteration, hinderance, or impediment to the
natural storm water drainage system, as defined by this chapter, exits on lands
within the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, the public works
department shall notify the owner of record of said lands and direct them to
abate or remove the same. Said notification shall:
   (1)   Be in writing;
   (2)   Specify the nature of the obstruction, alteration, hinderance, or
impediment and give its location;
   (3)   Specify the corrective measures required; and
   (4)   Require compliance within thirty (30) days from the date of
notification.
   The notification shall be served upon the owner or owners of the premises
where the violation is located by serving them personally or by sending said
notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to their address as shown
on the current tax rolls of the City of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 4-1109, modified, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-610. Failure to comply with an order to correct a violation.
   If the owner or owners of the premises fail or refuse to comply with the
order issued by the public works department within the time period specified by
the letter of notification, as provided herein, such failure or refusal shall
be deemed a violation of the provisions of this chapter and said owner or
owners shall be subject to the penalties herein provided.
(1970 Code, § 4-1110, modified, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-611. Penalties for failure to comply.
   If the owner or owners of the premises fail or refuse to comply with the
order issued by the public works department within the time period specified by
the letter of notification, the director of public works or his duly authorized
representatives may enter onto such premises and take the corrective action
specified in the letter of notification so that the obstruction, alteration,
hinderance, or impediment to the natural storm water drainage system identified
by said letter is removed or abated.
(1970 Code, § 4-1111, modified, as amended by Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016)
14-612. Payment of costs.
   Upon the completion of the corrective action carried out by the department
of public works as authorized herein, the actual costs of such action, plus a
fee of fifteen percent (15%) for administrative costs, shall be paid by the
owner or owners of said property to the City of Cookeville and said costs shall
be billed to the owner or owners of said property. If said bill is not paid in
full within sixty (60) days after its date of mailing, a ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be added and said costs and penalties shall be placed on the tax
rolls of the City of Cookeville as a lien upon said property and collected in
the same manner as other city taxes are collected.
(1970 Code, § 4-1112)
14-613. Public works projects.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the City of Cookeville from
undertaking a public works project to improve the natural storm water drainage
system when it is determined by the Cookeville City Council that such project
will prevent a threat or menace to life, property, public health, and public
welfare of the community in order to prevent the serious consequences of
flooding.
(1970 Code, § 4-1113)
CHAPTER 7
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION
   
14-701.   General provisions.
   
14-702.   Definitions.
   
14-703.   Existing locations and developments.
   
14-704.   Stormwater system design and management standards.
   
14-705.   Post construction.
   
14-706.   Illicit discharges.
   
14-707.   Waivers.
   
14-708.   Enforcement.
   
14-709.   Penalties.
   
14-710.   Appeals.
   
14-711.   Board of environmental appeals.
   
14-712.   Stormwater management guidelines.
14-701. General provisions.
It is the purpose of these regulations to:
   (a)   Provide a means to protect, maintain, and enhance the environment of
the City of Cookeville and the public health, safety and the general welfare of
the citizens of the city, by controlling discharges of pollutants into the
city's stormwater system and to maintain and improve the quality of the
receiving waters into which the stormwater outfalls flow, including, without
limitation, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, wetlands, and groundwater of the
city.
   (b)   Enable the City of Cookeville to comply with the National Pollution
Discharge Elimination System permit (NPDES) and applicable regulations, 40 CFR
section 122.26 for stormwater discharges.
   (c)   Allow the City of Cookeville to exercise the powers granted in
Tennessee Code Annotated § 68-221-1105, which provides that, among other powers
municipalities have with respect to stormwater facilities, is the power by
ordinance or resolution to:
      (1)   Exercise general regulation over the planning, location,
construction, and operation and maintenance of stormwater facilities in the
municipality, whether or not owned and operated by the municipality;
      (2)   Adopt any rules and regulations deemed necessary to accomplish the
purposes of this statute, including the adoption of a system of fees for
services and permits;
      (3)   Establish standards to regulate the quantity of stormwater
discharged and to regulate stormwater contaminants as may be necessary to
protect water quality;
      (4)   Review and approve plans and plats for stormwater management in
proposed subdivisions or commercial developments;
      (5)   Issue permits for stormwater discharges, due to construction or for
construction, alteration, extension, or repair of stormwater facilities;
      (6)   Suspend or revoke permits when it is determined that the permittee
has violated any applicable ordinance, resolution, or condition of the permit;
or be charged with a civil offense.
      (7)   Regulate and prohibit discharges into stormwater facilities of
sanitary, industrial, or commercial sewage or waters that have otherwise been
contaminated; and
      (8)   Expend funds to remediate or mitigate the detrimental effects of
contaminated land or other sources of stormwater contamination, whether public
or private.
The Public Works Department shall administer the provisions of these
regulations.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and amended by Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-702. Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply: Words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is permissive.
Words not defined in this section shall be construed to have the meaning given
by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of Webster's
Dictionary.
   (1)   "As built plans" means drawings depicting conditions as they were
actually constructed.
   (2)   "Best management practices " or "BMPs " are physical, structural, and/
or managerial practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or
reduce pollution of water, that have been approved by the City of Cookeville,
and that have been incorporated by reference into this chapter as if fully set
out therein. [NOTE: See §
14-704(1) for recommended BMP manual.]
   (3)   "Building Permit Applicant or Applicant" means anyone applying for a
building or grading permit.
   (4)   "Channel" means a natural or artificial watercourse with a definite
bed and banks that conducts flowing water continuously or periodically.
   (5)   "Civil penalties" under the authority provided in Tennessee Code
Annotated § 68-221-1106, the city declares that any person violating the
provisions of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the city of not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per day for each day of violation. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (6)   "Common plan of development or sale" is broadly defined as any
announcement or documentation (including a sign, public notice or hearing,
sales pitch, advertisement, drawing, permit application, zoning request,
computer design, etc.) or physical demarcation (including boundary signs, lot
stakes, surveyor markings, etc.) indicating construction activities may occur
on a specific plot. A common plan of development or sale identifies a situation
in which multiple areas of disturbance are occurring on contiguous areas. This
applies because the activities may take place at different times, on different
schedules, by different operators.
   (7)   "Contaminant" means any physical, chemical, biological, or
radiological substance or matter in water.
   (8)   "de minimus discharges " are water discharges that pose insignificant
threat to water quality and the environment.
   (9)   "Design storm event" means a hypothetical storm event of a given
frequency, interval and duration, used in the analysis and design of a
stormwater facility. The estimated design rainfall amounts for any return
period interval (i.e. 2-yr, 5-yr, 10-yr, etc.), in terms of either 24-hour
depths or intensities for any duration, can be found by accessing the following
NOAA National Weather Service Atlas 14 data for Tennessee: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/pfds_map_cont.html
   (10)   "Discharge " means dispose, deposit, spill, pour, inject, seep, dump,
leak or place by any means, or that which is disposed, deposited, spilled,
poured, injected, seeped, dumped, leaked, or placed by any means including any
direct or indirect entry of any solid or liquid matter into the municipal
separate storm sewer system.
   (11)   "Easement" means an acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment
that a person, party, firm, corporation, municipality or other legal entity has
in the land of another.
   (12)   "Erosion " means the removal of soil particles by the action of
water, wind, ice or other geological agents, whether naturally occurring or
acting in conjunction with or promoted by anthropogenic activities or effects.
   (13)   "First flush " means the initial or early stages of stormwater runoff
from a storm event which commonly delivers a disproportionately large amount of
previously accumulated pollutants due to the rapid rate of runoff. The first
flush is commonly used as the Water Quality Treatment Volume (WQTV) and is
defined in the City of Cookeville Stormwater Management Design Guidelines.
   (14)   "Hotspot" ("priority area") means an area where land use or
activities generate highly contaminated runoff, with concentrations of
pollutants in excess of those typically found in stormwater.
   (15)   "Illicit connections " means illegal and/or unauthorized connections
to the municipal separate stormwater system whether or not such connections
result in discharges into that system.
   (16)   "Illicit discharge " means any discharge to the municipal separate
storm sewer system that is not composed entirely of stormwater and not
specifically exempted under § 14-706(2).
   (17)   "Improved sinkhole " is a natural surface depression that has been
altered in order to direct fluids into the hole opening. Improved sinkhole is a
type of injection well regulated under TDEC's Underground Injection Control
(UIC) program. Underground injection constitutes an intentional disposal of
waste water in natural depressions, open fractures, and crevices (such as those
commonly associated with weathering of limestone).
   (18)   "Inspector" An inspector is a person that has successfully completed
(has a valid certification from) the "Fundamentals of Erosion Prevention and
Sediment Control Level I" course or equivalent course. An inspector performs
and documents the required inspections, paying particular attention to time-
sensitive permit requirements such as stabilization and maintenance activities.
An inspector may also have the following responsibilities:
      (a)   Oversee the requirements of other construction-related permits,
such as Aquatic Resources Alteration Permit (ARAP) or Corps of Engineers permit
for construction activities in or around waters of the state;
      (b)   Update field SWPPPs;
      (c)   Conduct pre-construction inspection to verify that undisturbed
areas have been properly marked and initial measures have been installed; and
      (d)   Inform the permit holder of activities that may be necessary to
gain or remain in compliance with the Construction General Permit (CGP) and
other environmental permits.
   (19)   "Land disturbing activity" means any activity on property that
results in a change in the existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-
vegetative) and/or the existing soil topography. Land-disturbing activities
include, but are not limited to, development, re-development, demolition,
construction, reconstruction, clearing, grading, filling, and excavation.
Excludes agricultural activities.
   (20)   "Maintenance" means any activity that is necessary to keep a
stormwater facility in good working order so as to function as designed.
Maintenance shall include complete reconstruction of a stormwater facility if
reconstruction is needed in order to restore the facility to its original
operational design parameters. Maintenance shall also include the correction of
any problem on the site property that may directly impair the functions of the
stormwater facility.
   (21)   "Maintenance agreement" means a document recorded in the land records
that acts as a property deed restriction, and which provides for long-term
maintenance of stormwater management practices.
   (22)   "Municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)" ("Municipal separate
stormwater system") means the conveyances owned or operated by the municipality
for the collection and transportation of stormwater, including the roads and
streets and their drainage systems, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-
made channels, and storm drains, and where context indicates, it means the
municipality that owns the separate storm sewer system.
   (23)   "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit" (NPDES
permit) means a permit issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1342.
   (24)   "Off-site facility" means a structural BMP located outside the
subject property boundary described in the permit application for land
development activity.
   (25)   "Peak flow" means the maximum instantaneous rate of flow of water at
a particular point resulting from a storm event.
   (26)   "Person" means any and all persons, natural or artificial, including
any individual, firm or association and any municipal or private corporation
organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
   (27)   "Redevelopment" is defined as land development on a previously
developed site which disturbs fifty percent (50%) or more of the existing
developed site. Redevelopment does not include ordinary maintenance activities,
such as repaving existing paved areas, remodeling existing buildings,
reroofing, and cosmetic changes to existing buildings.
   (28)   "Runoff" means that portion of the precipitation on a drainage area
that is discharged from the area into the municipal separate stormwater system.
   (29)   "Sediment" means solid material, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface either
above or below sea level.
   (30)   "Sedimentation" means soil particles suspended in stormwater that can
settle in stream beds and may disrupt the natural flow of the stream.
   (31)   "Soils Report" means a study of soils on a subject property with the
primary purpose of characterizing and describing the soils. The soils report
shall be prepared by a soils engineer or geologist licensed in the State of
Tennessee, who shall be directly involved in the soil characterization either
by performing the investigation or by directly supervising employees.
   (32)   "Stabilization" means providing adequate measures, vegetative and/or
structural, that will prevent erosion from occurring.
   (33)   "Stormwater" means stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff, surface
runoff, street wash waters related to street cleaning or maintenance,
infiltration and drainage.
   (34)   "Stormwater control measure (SCM) " means permanent practices and
measures designed to reduce the discharge or pollutants from new development or
redevelopment projects.
   (35)   "Stormwater management" means the programs to maintain quality and
quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-development levels.
   (36)   "Stormwater management facilities" means the drainage structures,
conduits, ponds, ditches, combined sewers, sewers, and all device appurtenances
by means of which stormwater is collected, transported, pumped, treated or
disposed of.
   (37)   "Stormwater management plan" means the set of drawings and other
documents that comprise all the information and specifications for the
programs, drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques intended
to maintain or restore quality and quantity of stormwater runoff to pre-
development levels.
   (38)   "Stormwater runoff” means flow on the surface of the ground,
resulting from precipitation.
   (39)   "Stormwater utility" means the stormwater utility created by
ordinance of the city to administer the stormwater management ordinance, and
other stormwater rules and regulations adopted by the municipality.
   (40)   “Stream" is a linear surface water that is not a Wet-Weather
Conveyance as determined by a Qualified Hydrological Professions.
   (41)   "Structural BMPs" means devices that are constructed to provide
control of stormwater runoff.
   (42)   "Surface water" includes waters upon the surface of the earth in
bounds created naturally or artificially including, but not limited to,
streams, other water courses, lakes and reservoirs.
   (43)   "Watercourse" means a permanent or intermittent stream or other body
of water, either natural or man-made, which gathers or carries surface water.
   (44)   "Water Quality Treatment Volume (WQTV) " means a portion of the
runoff generated from impervious surfaces at a new development or redevelopment
project by the 1-year 24-hour design storm. The WQTV is further determined by
the type of treatment provided as defined in the City of Cookeville Stormwater
Management Design Guidelines. The First Flush is commonly used as the WQTV.
   (45)   "Watershed" means all the land area that contributes runoff to a
particular point along a waterway.
   (46)   "Waters" or "waters of the state" means any and all water, public or
private, on or beneath the surface of the ground, which are contained within,
flow through or border upon Tennessee or any portion thereof except those
bodies of water confined to and retained within the limits of private property
in single ownership which do not combine or effect a junction with natural
surface or underground waters.
   (47)   "Wetland(s)" means those areas that are inundated or saturated by
surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted to life in saturated soil
conditions. Wetlands include, but are not limited to, swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas.
   (48)   "Wet Weather Conveyance" are man-made or natural watercourses,
including natural watercourses that have been modified by channelization, that
flow only in direct response to precipitation runoff in their immediate
locality and whose channels are above the groundwater table and are not
suitable for drinking water supplies; and in which hydrological and biological
analyses indicate that, under normal weather conditions, due to naturally
occurring ephemeral or low flow, there is not sufficient water to support fish
or multiple populations of obligate lotic aquatic organisms whose life cycle
includes an aquatic phase of at least two months.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July
2024)
14-703. Existing locations and developments.
(1) Requirements for all existing locations and developments. The following
requirements shall apply to all locations and developments at which land
disturbing activities have occurred previous to the enactment of this chapter:
      (a)   Denuded areas must be vegetated or covered under the standards and
guidelines specified in the BMP manual and on a schedule acceptable to the
Public Works Department.
      (b)   Cuts and slopes must be properly covered with appropriate
vegetation and/or retaining walls constructed.
      (c)   Drainage ways shall be properly covered in vegetation or secured
with rip-rap, channel lining, etc., to prevent erosion.
      (d)   Trash, junk, rubbish, etc. shall be cleared from drainage ways.
   (2)   Requirements for existing problem locations. The Public Works
Department shall in writing notify the owners of existing locations and
developments of specific drainage, erosion or sediment problem affecting such
locations and developments, and the specific actions required to correct those
problems. The notice shall also specify a reasonable time for compliance.
   (3)   Inspection of existing facilities. The Public Works Department may, to
the extent authorized by state and federal law, establish inspection programs
to verify that all stormwater management facilities, including those built
before as well as after the adoption of this chapter, are functioning within
design limits. These inspection programs may be established on any reasonable
basis, including but not limited to: routine inspections; random inspections;
inspections based upon complaints or other notice of possible violations;
inspection of drainage basins or areas identified as higher than typical
sources of sediment or other contaminants or pollutants; inspections of
businesses or industries of a type associated with higher than usual discharges
of contaminants or pollutants or with discharges of a type which are more
likely than the typical discharge to cause violations of the municipality's
NPDES stormwater permit; and joint inspections with other agencies inspecting
under environmental or safety laws. Inspections may include, but are not
limited to: reviewing maintenance and repair records; sampling discharges,
surface water, groundwater, and material or water in drainage control
facilities; and evaluating the condition of drainage control facilities and
other BMPs.
   (4)   Corrections of problems subject to appeal. Corrective measures imposed
by the Public Works Department under this section are subject to appeal under §
14-710 of this chapter.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-704. Stormwater system design and management standards.
(1) Stormwater design or BMP manual.
      (a)   Adoption. The municipality adopts as its stormwater design and best
management practices (BMP) manual the following publications, which are
incorporated by reference in this chapter as is fully set out herein:
         (1)   TDEC Sediment and Erosion Control Handbook; most current
edition.
         (2)   Title 14, Chapter 7, § 14-712.
         (3)   Tennessee Permanent Stormwater Management and Design Guidance
Manual; most current edition.
         (4)   Other MS4 approved BMP manuals that comply with the goals of the
MS4 Permit and/or the Construction General Permit (CGP) may be chosen by the
city and a current list is available from the Public Works Department.
      (b)   These manuals include lists of acceptable BMPs including the
specific design performance criteria and operation and maintenance requirements
for each stormwater practice. These include city approved BMPs for permanent
stormwater management including green infrastructure BMPs. These manuals may be
updated and expanded from time to time, at the discretion of the governing body
of the municipality, upon the recommendation of the Public Works Department,
based on improvements in engineering, science, monitory and local maintenance
experience. Stormwater facilities that are designed, constructed and maintained
in accordance with these BMP criteria will be presumed to meet the minimum
water quality performance standards.
   (2)   General performance criteria for stormwater management. The following
performance criteria shall be addressed for stormwater management at all sites:
      (a)   All site designs shall control the peak flow rates of stormwater
discharge associated with design storms specified in this chapter or as
specified by the City of Cookeville Stormwater Management Design Guidelines and
reduce the generation of post construction stormwater runoff to pre-
construction levels. These practices should seek to utilize pervious areas for
stormwater treatment and to infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways,
sidewalks, rooftops, parking lots, and landscaped areas to the maximum extent
practical to provide treatment for both water quality and quantity. All
stormwater management facilities that are required under §
14-608 of the Cookeville Municipal Code, and the Cookeville Zoning Code and
Subdivision Regulations and which are approved after the adoption of this
chapter shall be built to control water quality by using the best management
practice outlined in this section. Other methods of controlling water quality
may be approved by the Director of Public Works if valid documentation is
provided which indicates an equivalent or higher level of water quality will
result from the alternate method. Due to the city's NPDES MS4 permit stormwater
management requirements are periodically changed, therefore specific
requirements for detention and water quality will be found in the City of
Cookeville Stormwater Management Guidelines.
      (b)   To protect stream channels from degradation, specific channel
protection criteria shall be provided as prescribed in the BMP manual.
      (c)   Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive resources
(i.e., cold water fisheries, swimming areas, recharge areas, water supply
reservoirs) may be subject to additional performance criteria, or may need to
utilize or restrict certain stormwater management practices.
      (d)   Stormwater discharges from "hot spots" may require the application
of specific structural BMPs and pollution prevention practices. In addition,
stormwater from hot spot land use may not be infiltrated.
      (e)   Prior to or during the site design process, building permit
applicants shall consult with the Public Works Department to determine if they
are subject to additional stormwater design requirements.
      (f)   The calculations for determining peak flows as found in the MS4 BMP
manual shall be used for sizing all stormwater facilities.
   (3)   Minimum control requirements.
      (a)   Stormwater designs shall meet the multi-stage storm frequency
storage requirements as identified by the City of Cookeville Stormwater
Management Design Guidelines, unless the Public Works Department has granted
the applicant a full or partial waiver for a particular BMP under §
14-707.
      (b)   If hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant greater control
than that provided by the minimum control requirements, the Public Works
Department may impose any and all additional requirements deemed necessary to
control the volume, timing, and rate of runoff.
   (4)   Permanent stormwater management plan requirements. The stormwater
management plan shall include sufficient information to allow the Public Works
Department to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the project site,
the potential impacts of all proposed development of the site, both present and
future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness and acceptability of the
measures proposed for managing stormwater generated at the project site. To
accomplish this goal the stormwater management plan shall include the
following:
      (a)   Topographic base map: A topographic base map (2 foot contour
intervals) to a suitable scale of the site which extends a minimum of 100 feet
beyond the limits of the proposed development and indicates:
         (1)   Existing surface water drainage including streams, ponds,
culverts, ditches, sink holes, wetlands, buffers; and the type, size,
elevation, etc., of nearest upstream and downstream drainage structures.
Riparian buffer zones shall meet the requirements both in accordance with the
Tennessee Construction General Permit and with the Buffer Zone Ordinance for
the City of Cookeville.
         (2)   Current land use including all existing structures, locations of
utilities, roads, and easements;
         (3)   All other existing significant natural and artificial features;
         (4)   Proposed land use with tabulation of the percentage of surface
area to be adapted to various uses; drainage patterns; locations of utilities,
roads and easements; the limits of clearing and grading;
      (b)   Proposed structural BMPs;
      (c)   A written description of the site plan and justification of
proposed changes in natural conditions may also be required.
      (d)   Calculations: Hydrologic and hydraulic design calculations for the
pre-development and post-development conditions for the design storms specified
in the BMP manual. These calculations must show that the proposed stormwater
management measures are capable of controlling runoff from the site in
compliance with this chapter and the guidelines of the BMP manual. Such
calculations shall include:
         (1)   A description of the design storm frequency, duration, and
intensity where applicable;
         (2)   Time of concentration;
         (3)   Soil curve numbers or runoff coefficients including assumed soil
moisture conditions;
         (4)   Peak runoff rates and total runoff volumes for each watershed
area;
         (5)   Infiltration rates, where applicable;
         (6)   Culvert, stormwater sewer, ditch and/or other stormwater
conveyance capacities;
         (7)   Flow velocities;
         (8)   Data on the increase in rate and volume of runoff for the design
storms referenced in the BMP manual; and
         (9)   Documentation of sources for all computation methods and field
test results.
      (e)   Soils information: If a stormwater management control measure
depends on the hydrologic properties of soils (e.g., infiltration basins), then
a soils report shall be submitted. The soils report shall be based on on-site
boring logs or soil pit profiles and soil survey reports. The number and
location of required soil borings or soil pits shall be determined based on
what is needed to determine the suitability and distribution of soil types
present at the location of the control measure.
      (f)   Maintenance and repair plan: The design and planning of all
stormwater management facilities shall include detailed maintenance and repair
procedures to ensure their continued performance. These plans will identify the
parts or components of a stormwater management facility that need to be
maintained and the equipment and skills or training necessary. Provisions for
the periodic review and evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance
program and the need for revisions or additional maintenance procedures shall
be included in the plan.
      (g)   Landscaping plan: The applicant must present a detailed plan for
management of vegetation at the site after construction is finished, including
who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at the site and what
practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative cover is
preserved. Where it is required by the BMP, this plan must be prepared by a
registered landscape architect licensed in Tennessee.
      (h)   Maintenance easements: The applicant must ensure access to the site
for the purpose of inspection and repair by securing all the maintenance
easements needed. These easements must be binding on the current property owner
and all subsequent owners of the property and must be properly recorded in the
land record.
      (i)   Maintenance agreement:
         (1)   Stormwater facilities on properties permitted under the
requirements of this chapter are required to provide a maintenance agreement
that runs with the land. The owner of property must execute an inspection and
maintenance agreement that shall operate as a deed restriction binding on the
current property owner and all subsequent property owners and their lessees and
assigns, including but not limited to, homeowner associations or other groups
or entities.
         (2)   The maintenance agreement shall:
            (a)   Assign responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the
stormwater facility to the owner of the property upon which the facility is
located and be recorded as such on the plat for the property by appropriate
notation.
            (b)   Provide for periodic inspection by the property owner in
accordance with the requirements of subsection (3) below for the purpose of
documenting maintenance and repair needs and to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. The property owners will arrange for professional
inspections in accordance with the requirements of subsection (3) below on a
less frequent schedule, to be conducted by a licensed professional engineer or
landscape architect, registered to practice in the State of Tennessee, who will
submit a signed written report of the inspection to the Public Works
Department. It shall also grant permission to the city to enter the property at
reasonable times and to inspect the stormwater facility to ensure that it is
being properly maintained.
            (c)   Provide that the minimum maintenance and repair needs
include, but are not limited to: the removal of silt, litter and other debris,
the cutting of grass, grass cuttings and vegetation removal, and the
replacement of landscape vegetation, in detention and retention basins, and
inlets and drainage pipes and any other stormwater facilities. It shall also
provide that the property owner shall be responsible for additional maintenance
and repair needs consistent with the needs and standards outlined in the BMP
manual.
            (d)   Provide that maintenance needs must be addressed in a timely
manner.
            (e)   Provide that if the property is not maintained or repaired
within the prescribed schedule, the Public Works Department shall perform the
maintenance and repair at its expense, and bill the same to the property owner.
The maintenance agreement shall also provide that the Public Works Department's
cost of performing the maintenance shall be a lien against the property.
         (3)   Inspections required for stormwater management facilities that
have a recorded maintenance agreement - generally. The owners and/or the
operators of stormwater management facilities shall:
            (a)   Perform routine inspections to ensure that the BMPs are
properly functioning. These inspections shall be conducted on an annual basis,
at a minimum. These inspections shall be conducted by a person familiar with
control measures implemented at the site. Owners or operators shall maintain
documentation of these inspections. The Public Works Department may require
submittal of this documentation.
            (b)   Perform comprehensive inspection of all stormwater management
facilities and practices. Such inspection shall be conducted once every five
years, at a minimum. Such inspections must be conducted by either a
professional engineer or landscape architect, licensed in the State of
Tennessee. Complete inspection reports for these five year inspections shall
include:
               (i)   Facility type,
               (ii)   Inspection date,
               (iii)   Latitude and longitude and nearest street address,
               (iv)   BMP owner information (e.g. name, address, phone number,
fax, and email)
               (v)   A description of BMP condition including: vegetation and
soils; inlet and outlet channels and structures; embankments, slopes and safety
benches; spillways, weirs, and other control structures; and any sediment and
debris accumulation,
               (vi)   Photographic documentation of BMPs, and
               (vii)   Specific maintenance items or violations that need to be
corrected by the BMP owner along with deadlines and re-inspection dates.
            (c)   Owners or operators shall maintain documentation of these
inspections. The Public Works Department may require submittal of this
documentation.
         (5)   Sediment and erosion control plans: The applicant must prepare a
sediment and erosion control plan for all construction activities that complies
with §
14-704  (6) below.
         (6)   Sediment and erosion control plan requirements. The requirements
of Cookeville Municipal Code,
Title 14, Chapter 5 , entitled "Erosion and Sediment Control Regulations",
shall be met. (as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord.
#015-01-01, February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-705. Post construction.
   (1) As built plans. All applicants are required to submit actual as built
plans for any structures located on-site after final construction is completed.
The plan must show the final design specifications for all stormwater
management facilities and must be sealed by a registered professional engineer
licensed to practice in Tennessee. A certificate of occupancy shall not be
granted by the Codes Department until any needed corrections to all BMPs have
been made and accepted by the Public Works Department.
   (2)   Landscaping and stabilization requirements.
      (a)   Any area of land from which the natural vegetative cover has been
either partially or wholly cleared by development activities shall be
revegetated according to a schedule approved by the Public Works Department.
The following criteria shall apply to revegetation efforts:
         (1)   Reseeding must be done with an annual or perennial cover crop
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until such time as the cover crop is established
over ninety percent (90%) of the seeded area.
         (2)   Replanting with native woody and herbaceous vegetation must be
accompanied by placement of straw mulch or its equivalent of sufficient
coverage to control erosion until the plantings are established and are capable
of controlling erosion.
         (3)   Any area of revegetation must exhibit survival of a minimum of
seventy-five percent (75%) of the cover crop throughout the year immediately
following revegetation. Revegetation must be repeated in successive years until
the minimum seventy-five percent (75%) survival for one (1) year is achieved.
      (b)   In addition to the above requirements, a landscaping plan must be
submitted with the final design describing the vegetative stabilization and
management techniques to be used at a site after construction is completed.
This plan will explain not only how the site will be stabilized after
construction, but who will be responsible for the maintenance of vegetation at
the site and what practices will be employed to ensure that adequate vegetative
cover is preserved.
   (3)   Records of installation and maintenance activities. Parties
responsible for the operation and maintenance of a stormwater management
facility shall make records of all maintenance and repairs to the facility, and
shall retain the records for at least 5 years. These records shall be made
available to the Public Works Department during inspection of the facility and
at other reasonable times upon request.
   (4)   Failure to meet or maintain design or maintenance standards. If a
responsible party fails or refuses to meet the design or maintenance standards
required for stormwater facilities under this chapter, the Public Works
Department, after reasonable notice as specified in the Enforcement Response
Plan, may correct a violation of the design standards or maintenance needs by
performing all necessary work to place the facility in proper working
condition. In the event that the stormwater management facility becomes a
danger to public safety or public health, the Public Works Department shall
notify in writing the party responsible for maintenance of the stormwater
management facility. Upon receipt of that notice, the responsible person shall
have 14 days to effect maintenance and repair of the facility in an approved
manner. In the event that corrective action is not undertaken within that time,
the Public Works Department may take necessary corrective action. The cost of
any action by the Public Works Department under this section shall be charged
to the responsible party.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O16-09-21, November 2016, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July
2024)
14-706. Illicit discharges.
   (1) Scope. This section shall apply to all water generated on developed or
undeveloped land which enters the municipality's separate storm sewer system.
   (2)   Prohibition of illicit discharges. No person shall introduce or cause
to be introduced into the municipal separate storm sewer system any discharge
that is not composed entirely of stormwater or any discharge that flows from a
stormwater facility that is not inspected in accordance with §
14-704  shall be an illicit discharge. Non-stormwater discharges shall include,
but shall not be limited to, sanitary wastewater, car wash wastewater, radiator
flushing disposal, spills from roadway accidents, carpet cleaning wastewater,
effluent from septic tanks, improper oil disposal, laundry wastewater/gray
water, improper disposal of auto and household toxics. The commencement,
conduct or continuance of any non-stormwater discharge to the municipal
separate storm sewer system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      (a)   Uncontaminated discharges from the following sources:
         (1)   Water line flushing or other potable water sources,
         (2)   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering with potable water,
         (3)   Diverted stream flows,
         (4)   Rising ground water,
         (5)   Groundwater infiltration to storm drains,
         (6)   Pumped groundwater,
         (7)   Foundation or footing drains,
         (8)   Crawl space pumps,
         (9)   Air conditioning condensation,
         (10)   Springs,
         (11)   Non-commercial washing of vehicles,
         (12)   Natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
         (13)   Swimming pools (if disinfected with chlorine and de-chlorinated
prior to release - typically less than one PPM chlorine),
         (14)   Fire fighting activities, and
         (15)   Any other uncontaminated water source.
      (b)   Discharges specified in writing by the Public Works Department as
being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (c)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge if the Public Works
Department has so specified in writing.
      (d)   De minimus discharges - water discharges that pose insignificant
threat to water quality and the environment.
      (e)   Discharges authorized by the Construction General Permit (CGP),
which comply with section 1.2 of the same:
         (i)   dewatering of work areas of collected stormwater and ground
water (filtering and chemical treatment may be necessary prior to discharge);
         (ii)   waters used to wash vehicles (of dust and soil, not process
materials such as oils, asphalt or concrete) where detergents are not used and
detention and/or filtering is provided before the water leaves site;
         (iii)   water used to control dust in accordance with the CGP section
5.5.3.7;
         (iv)   potable water sources including waterline flushings from which
chlorine has been removed to the maximum extent practicable;
         (v)   routine external building washdown that does not use detergents
or other chemicals;
         (vi)   uncontaminated ground water or spring water; and
         (vii)   foundation or footing drains where flows are not contaminated
with pollutants (process materials such as solvents, heavy metals, etc.).
   (3)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (a)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the separate municipal storm sewer system is prohibited.
      (b)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (4)   Reduction of stormwater pollutants by the use of best management
practices. Any person responsible for a property or premises, which is, or may
be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at the
person's expense, the BMPs necessary to prevent the further discharge of
pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all
terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
stormwater associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section. Discharges from
existing BMPs that have not been maintained and/or inspected in accordance with
this chapter shall be regarded as illicit.
   (5)   Notification of spills. Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as
soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for
emergency response for a facility or operation has information of any known or
suspected release of materials which are resulting in, or may result in,
illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, the municipal
separate storm sewer system, the person shall take all necessary steps to
ensure the discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of
such a release of hazardous materials the person shall immediately notify
emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services.
In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, the person shall notify
the Public Works Department in person or by telephone or facsimile no later
than the next business day. Notifications in person or by telephone shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the Public Works Department
within three (3) business days of the telephone notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least 5 years.
   (6)   No illegal dumping allowed. No person shall dump or otherwise deposit
outside an authorized landfill, convenience center or other authorized garbage
or trash collection point, any trash or garbage of any kind or description on
any private or public property, occupied or unoccupied, inside the city.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #024-06-18, July 2024)
14-707. Waivers.
   (1) General. Every landowner shall provide for stormwater management as
required by this chapter, unless a written request is filed to waive this
requirement. Requests to waive the stormwater management plan requirements
shall be submitted to the Public Works Department for approval.
   (2)   Conditions for waiver. The minimum requirements for stormwater
management may be waived in whole or in part upon written request of the
landowner, provided that at least one of the following conditions applies:
      (a)   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this chapter,
      (b)   Alternative minimum requirements for on-site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
that has been approved by the Public Works Department.
   (3)   Downstream damage, etc. prohibited. In order to receive consideration,
the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Public Works
Department that the proposed alternative will not lead to any of the following
conditions downstream:
      (a)   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams, and other
structures;
      (b)   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
      (c)   Accelerated streambank or streambed erosion or siltation;
      (d)   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life or
property.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-708. Enforcement.
   (1)    Enforcement authority. The director of the Public Works Department
(hereafter referred to as director) or his or her designees shall have the
authority to issue notices of violation and citations, and to impose the civil
penalties to anyone that violates this chapter, who violates the provisions of
any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply
with any lawful communication or notice to abate or take corrective action. The
director's enforcement authority includes the following sections as set forth
in the City's Enforcement Response Plan (ERP).
   (2)   Notification of violation.
      (a)   Verbal warning. Verbal warning may be given at the discretion of
the inspector when it appears the condition can be corrected by the violator
within a reasonable time, which time shall be approved by the inspector.
      (b)   Written notice. Whenever the director or his or her designee finds
that any permittee or any other person discharging stormwater has violated or
is violating this chapter or a permit or order issued hereunder, the director
may serve upon such person written notice of the violation. Within ten (10)
days of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted to the director. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the discharger of liability for any violations occurring before or
after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (c)   Consent orders. The director or his or her designee is empowered to
enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar
documents establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
person to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative
orders issued pursuant to paragraphs (d) and (e) below.
      (d)   Show cause hearing. The director or his or her designee may order
any person who violates this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, to
show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The hearing
shall be before the Public Works director. Notice shall be served on the person
specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action
and the reasons for such action, and a request that the violator show cause why
this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
      (e)   Compliance order. When the director or his or her designee finds
that any person has violated or continues to violate this chapter or a permit
or order issued thereunder, he or she may issue an order to the violator
directing that, following a specific time period, adequate structures, devices,
be installed or procedures implemented and properly operated. Orders may also
contain such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the construction of
appropriate structures, installation of devices, self-monitoring, and
management practices.
      (f)   Cease and desist orders. When the director or his or her designee
finds that any person has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, the director may issue an order to cease and
desist all such violations and direct those persons in noncompliance to:
         (1)   Comply forthwith; or
         (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and terminating the discharge.
   (3)   Conflicting standards. Whenever there is a conflict between any
standard contained in this chapter and in the BMP manual adopted by the
municipality under this chapter, the strictest standard shall prevail.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-709. Penalties.
   (1)    Violations. Any person who shall commit any act declared unlawful
under this chapter, who violates any provision of this chapter, who violates
the provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or
refuses to comply with any lawful communication or notice to abate or  take
corrective action by the Public Works Department, shall be guilty of a civil
offense.
   (2)   Penalties. Under the authority provided in Tennessee Code Annotated §
68-221-1106, the municipality declares that any person violating the provisions
of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the Public Works Department
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per day for each day of violation. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (3)   Measuring civil penalties. In assessing a civil penalty, the director
of the Public Works Department may consider:
      (a)   The harm done to the public health or the environment;
      (b)   Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic
deterrent to the illegal activity;
      (c)   The economic benefit gained by the violator;
      (d)   The amount of effort put forth by the violator to remedy this
violation;
      (e)   Any unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the
municipality;
      (f)   The amount of penalty established by ordinance or resolution for
specific categories of violations; and
      (g)   Any equities of the situation which outweigh the benefit of
imposing any penalty or damage assessment.
   (4)   Recovery of damages and costs. In addition to the civil penalty in
subsection (2) above, the municipality may recover:
      (a)   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the municipality,
which may include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations
of, and enforcing compliance with, this chapter, or any other actual damages
caused by the violation.
      (b)   The costs of the municipality's maintenance of stormwater
facilities when the user of such facilities fails to maintain them as required
by this chapter.
   (5)   Other remedies. The municipality may bring legal action to enjoin the
continuing violation of this chapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at
law or equity, shall be no defense to any such actions.
   (6)   Remedies cumulative. The remedies set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one (1) or more of the remedies set forth herein has been
sought or granted.
   (7)   Referral to TDEC. In accordance with the City's Enforcement Response
Plan and the NPDES Permit requirements, the Public Works Department may also
notify TDEC of violations.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-710. Appeals.
   Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated § 68-221-1106(d), any person aggrieved
by the imposition of a civil penalty or damage assessment as provided by this
chapter may appeal said penalty or damage assessment to the Board of
Environmental Appeals.
   (1)   Appeals to be in writing. The appeal shall be in writing and filed
with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the civil penalty and/or
damage assessment is served in any manner authorized by law.
   (2)   Public hearing. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board of Environmental
Appeals shall hold a public hearing within thirty (30) days. Ten (10) days
prior notice of the time, date, and location of said hearing shall be published
in a daily newspaper of general circulation. Ten (10) days notice by registered
mail shall also be provided to the aggrieved party, such notice to be sent to
the address provided by the aggrieved party at the time of appeal.
   (3)   Appealing decisions of the Board of Environmental Appeals. Any alleged
violator may appeal a decision of the Board of Environmental Appeals pursuant
to the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 27, Chapter
   (4)   If a petition for review of such damage assessment or civil penalty is
not filed within thirty (30) days after the damage assessment or civil penalty
is served in any manner authorized by law, the violator shall be deemed to have
consented to the damage assessment or civil penalty, and it shall become final.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-711. Board of environmental appeals.
   (1)    There is created a Board of Environmental Appeals to hear appeals
filed by any person incurring a civil penalty or damage assessment imposed
pursuant to § 14-709 of these regulations.
   (2)   The board may issue subpoenas requiring attendance of witnesses and
production of such evidence as requested, administer oaths, and take testimony
as the board deems necessary to fulfill its purpose.
   (3)   The board shall be composed of five members appointed by the
Cookeville City Council.
   (4)   The council shall select appointees so that the board will consist of
individuals with an expertise as follows:
      (a)   One licensed professional engineer with civil engineering
expertise.
      (b)   One licensed professional engineer.
      (c)   One representative of the development or industrial community.
      (d)   One neighborhood representative.
      (e)   One member at large.
   (5)   The professional engineers shall have at least three (3) years
experience in each member's area of expertise.
   (6)   Board members shall serve for a term of five (5) years. A board member
shall continue to serve, however, until a successor has been appointed, or
until the board member has been reappointed. The terms of the original board
members shall be staggered so that the term of one member shall expire each
year.
   (7)   An appointment to succeed a board member who is unable to serve said
member's full term shall be for the remainder of said member's term.
   (8)   Board members may be reappointed, but they do not succeed themselves
automatically.
   (9)   Board members shall serve without compensation.
   (10)   The board shall annually select one of its members to serve as chair
and another member to serve as vice-chair of the board by a majority vote of
all members.
   (11)   The board shall keep complete and accurate records of the proceedings
of all their meetings. The Department of Public Works shall designate a person
to serve as secretary to the board.
   (12)   No board member shall participate in the appeal of any matter in
which the member has direct personal or financial interest.
   (13)   Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and the
concurrence of a majority of the board present and voting in any matter shall
be required for a determination of any matter within its jurisdiction.
(as added by Ord. #004-06-11, July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-712. Stormwater Management Guidelines.
   (1)   General Provisions.
      (a)   These guidelines will outline the way stormwater detention and
water quality treatment will be calculated. Stormwater detention is a necessary
part of most stormwater treatment BMPs and is required for most developments.
      (b)   The Stormwater Ordinance of the City of Cookeville is posted at the
City of Cookeville Public Works Department's website and must be read by anyone
attempting to perform stormwater calculations with the City of Cookeville. It
contains provisions for fees, right-of-entry, definitions, easements and
penalties. A major purpose of the Stormwater Ordinance is to improve water
quality, stormwater quantity as well as comply with the City's NPDES Permit for
Discharges from Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4).
   (2)   Stormwater Detention.
      (a)   Stormwater detention is required for any new development or re-
development containing 5,000 square foot or more of impervious area.
(Cookeville Municipal Code 14-608, Cookeville Zoning Code, Cookeville
Subdivision Regulations). Where additions to the existing impervious area of
the site bring the total area of impervious surface to 5,000 square foot or
more, only the additional impervious area is required to provide detention.
      (b)   Stormwater detention is defined as limiting the peak discharge rate
for the post developed conditions to be no greater than the peak discharge rate
for the predevelopment conditions. This must be accomplished using the 2-year,
5-year, and 10-year storms. The estimated design rainfall amounts for either
24-hour depths or intensities for any duration, can be found by accessing the
following NOAA National Weather Service Atlas 14 data for Tennessee: http://
hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/pfds map cont.html.
      (c)   Redevelopment of property shall be evaluated using one of the
following methods unless otherwise determined by the Public Works Department:
         i.   Rational method - evaluate the pre-development conditions using
the appropriate meadow/pastureland runoff coefficient or as existing
conditions, the more conservative condition shall be used.
         ii.   USDA Technical Release Number 55 (TR-55) - evaluate the pre-
development conditions as either grassland conditions or existing conditions,
the more conservative conditions shall be used.
      (d)   All hydrological and hydraulic computations for stormwater
detention facilities must be prepared and stamped by a registered engineer
(licensed in the state of Tennessee) and proficient in this field. Plans must
show sufficient information to enable the builder to construct the facility as
required.
      (e)   A dry detention basin must have a minimum of 2% slope in the bottom
of the basin in order to drain properly. Side slopes should generally be 3:1
(H:V) or flatter, unless traversable access has been designed. Detention basins
and ponds must provide forebays comprising a minimum of 10% of the total design
volume. Existing regional detention ponds are not subject to the forebay
requirement.
      (f)   Underground detention is the use of large underground structures to
provide necessary volumes for attenuating stormwater peak flows. Underground
structures generally provide little or no stormwater quality benefits. The
following minimum requirements must be met before an underground storage
facility will be considered for approval:
         i.   The underground detention structure must provide adequate access
for inspection from the surface. Public safety must be considered.
         ii.   The underground detention structure must be constructed of
durable materials with a typical 100-year lifetime. Detention storage volume
shall not include the porous space within a stone or gravel bed without soils
reports stamped by a geotechnical engineer stating that infiltration into the
soils should exceed 1/2" per hour infiltration rate.
         iii.   The underground detention structure shall be designed to have
positive drainage into the receiving channel or stormwater sewer assuming there
is a 10-year flood in the receiving facility.
         iv.   The underground detention structure shall not receive surface
runoff directly from parking lots. Surface water shall be directed to a BMP
that improves water quality such as an oil/water separator, grass filter strips
(of sufficient size to filter the water quantity), or a proprietary water
quality devise approved by the Public Works Department.
         v.   Design measures must be taken to trap and store sediments in
locations where cleanout and maintenance can be easily performed. This
generally requires that some type of water quality inlet or other stormwater
treatment BMP must be installed upstream from the underground detention
facility. Proprietary water quality devices must be approved by the Public
Works Department using industry wide standards identified by TDEC.
         vi.   A detailed maintenance and inspection plan must be submitted and
approved (including inspection schedules and guidelines). Evidence of
responsibility and financial budgeting must be presented.
   (3)   Stormwater Water Quality Treatment.
      (a)   The water quality treatment volume (WQTV) commonly referred to as
the first flush volume is defined as the first portion of direct runoff from
impervious surfaces at a new development or redevelopment project. The water
quality treatment design storm is defined by the 1-year, 24- hour design storm
event that can be found by accessing the following NOAA National Weather
Service Atlas 14 data for Tennessee: http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/pfds
map cont.html.
      (b)   Depending on the type of permanent stormwater control measure (SCM)
proposed for stormwater treatment at new development and redevelopment
projects, the quantity of the WQTV or the first flush volume required to be
treated is defined by the table below:
 
Water Quality Treatment Volume and the Corresponding SCM Treatment Type for the
1-year, 24-hour design storm
   SCM Treatment Type  WQTV Required              Notes
Proposed
Infiltration,                                        Examples include, but not
evaporation,              Runoff generated from the  limited to, bioretention,
transpiration, and/or     first 1 inch of the design stormwater wetlands, and
reuse                     storm                      infiltration systems with
                                                     no underdrains
                                                     To achieve biologically
Biologically active       Runoff generated from the  active filtration, SCMs
filtration, with an       first 1.25 inches of the   must provide minimum of 12
underdrain                design storm               inches of internal water
                                                     storage
Sand or gravel            Runoff generated from the  Examples include, but are
filtration, settling      first 2.5 inches of the    not limited to, sand
ponds, extended detention design storm or the first  filters, permeable pavers,
ponds, and wet ponds      75% of the design storm,   and underground gravel
                          whichever is less          detention systems.
Hydrodynamic separation,
baffle box settling,                                 Flow-through MTDs must
other flow-through        Maximum runoff generated   provide an overall
manufactured treatment    from the entire design     treatment efficiency of at
devices (MTDs), and       storm                      least 80% TSS reduction.
treatment trains using
MTDs
 
      (c)   The WQTV or first flush volume must be captured and released over a
minimum of 24 hours and a maximum of 72 hours. No first flush runoff of
impervious surfaces shall bypass the treatment facility. Stormwater recharge by
infiltrating the first flush volume into the soil on site is the preferable
method of first flush treatment. Infiltration may be accomplished by the use of
Bioretention basins, rain gardens, bio swales, green parking for overflow lots,
or other methods pre-approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. Infiltration of the first flush may not be possible if the site is
located on unsuitable soils. Where infiltration of stormwater is not possible
or ill advised, treatment of the WQTV or first flush is defined as a practice
or structure that removes 80% Total Suspended Solids (TSS) and other
anticipated pollutants such as oil and grease.
      (d)   To reach the required 80% TSS removal, multiple SCMs can be
proposed on new development and redevelopment sites in a treatment train.
Treatment train calculations must be submitted as defined by TDEC NPDES permit
Section 4.2.5.2.
      (e)   Site design standards for all new construction and redevelopment
disturbing one acre or more are recommended to use in combination or alone,
stormwater management measures that are designed, built and maintained to
infiltrate, evapotranspire, harvest and/or use the first flush of every
rainfall event preceded by 72 hours of no measurable precipitation. The first
flush of rainfall should be 100% managed with no discharge to surface waters.
      (f)   Stormwater management measures that are often referred to as green
infrastructure that can infiltrate the first flush of rainfall are the goal
that TDEC is aiming for that they term runoff reduction. Green infrastructure
includes many practices including; rain gardens, bioretention, infiltration
swales, etc.
      (g)   Some sites are not suitable for infiltration methods and
infiltration requirements may be set aside on such sites, with prior agreement
by the Public Works Department. Limitations to using runoff reduction methods
include, but are not limited to:
         i.   Where the potential for introducing pollutants into the ground
water exists, unless pretreatment is provided;
         ii.   Where pre-existing soil contamination is present in areas
subject to contact with infiltrated runoff;
         iii.   The presence of sinkholes or other karst features on the site
or in close proximity;
         iv.   Insufficient infiltration capacity of soils;
         v.   An extensive presence of shallow ground water table, shallow
bedrock or other restrictive layers; and
         vi.   Presence of contractive or expansive soils in close proximity to
structures.
      (h)   Pre-development infiltration capacity of the soils at the site must
be taken into account in selection of runoff reduction management measures.
      (i)   Incentive standards for redevelopment sites: a 10% reduction in
volume of rainfall to be managed for any of the following types of development.
Such credits are additive such that a maximum reduction of 50% of the standard
one inch is possible for a project that meets all 5 criteria:
         i.   Redevelopment
         ii.   Brownfield redevelopment
         iii.   High density (>7 units per acre)
         iv.   Vertical density (>18 units per acre)
         v.   Mixed use
      (j)   For all projects that cannot meet 100% of the first flush runoff
reduction requirement unless subject to the incentive standards, the remainder
of the first flush rainfall must be treated prior to discharge with a practice
or technology documented to remove 80% total suspended solids (TSS). The
treatment practice or technology must be designed, installed and maintained to
continue to meet this performance standard.
      (k)   In addition to the runoff reduction requirement for the first flush
rainfall, minimum volume controls are required to detain those storms greater
than the 1 yr, 24 hr depth as outlined above in the Stormwater Detention
section.
(as added by Ord. #O16-06-16, August 2016, and amended by Ord. #O16-09-21,
November 2016, and Ord. #O17-06-13, August 2017, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July
2024)
CHAPTER 8
RIPARIAN BUFFER ZONES
SECTION
   
14-801.   General provisions.
   
14-802.   Definitions.
   
14-803.   Standards.
   
14-804.   Buffer zone management and maintenance.
   
14-805.   Exemptions.
   
14-806.   Variances and modifications.
   
14-807.   Enforcement.
   
14-808.   Penalties.
   
14-809.   Appeals.
14-801. General provisions.
Riparian buffer zones serve as natural boundaries between local waterways and
development and help to protect water resources by filtering pollutants,
providing infiltration of stormwater runoff, providing wildlife habitat,
stabilizing the banks and restoring and maintaining the chemical, physical and
biological integrity of the water resources.
   It is the desire of the City of Cookeville to protect and maintain the
native vegetation in riparian areas by the implementation of specifications for
the establishment, protection and maintenance of vegetated buffers along all
water resources within the city. These provisions apply to all lots which are
contiguous with or directly adjoin water bodies determined to meet the
definition of streams, ponds, wetlands, springs, reservoirs or lakes. These
provisions are applicable to permanent riparian buffer zones and are not
referring to temporary construction buffer zones as required by the Tennessee
Construction General Permit, those buffer zones are required by state law and
are separate and covered by separate ordinances.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-802. Definitions.
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply: Words
used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include the
singular; words used in the present tense shall include the future tense. The
words “shall” and “will” are mandatory and not discretionary. The word "may" is
permissive. Words not defined in this section shall be construed to have the
meaning given by common and ordinary use as defined in the latest edition of
Webster's Dictionary.
   "BMPs" or "Best Management practices" are physical, structural and/or
managerial practices that, when used singly or in combination, prevent or
reduce pollution of water, that have been approved by the City of Cookeville,
and that have been incorporated by reference into the city stormwater
ordinances. [Note: see § 14-704(1) for recommended BMP manual.]
   "Channel" means a natural watercourse with a definite bed and banks that
conducts flowing water continuously or periodically.
   "Dumping" means the introduction of material into the riparian buffer zone
which could wash into the stream or otherwise cause contamination of the
stream.
   "Filling" means the deposit of earth by artificial means.
   "Grading" means the operation of raising or lowering the ground surface to a
predetermined elevation datum.
   "Impervious" means not allowing the passage of water through the surface of
the ground or ground covering, or a substantial reduction in the capacity for
water to pass through the surface of the ground or ground covering.
   "Right-of-way" is land over which a road, railroad, etc. passes.
   "Riparian" relating to, or living on the bank of a river, stream, lake,
wetland, etc.
   "Riparian buffer" is an undisturbed area, measured from top of bank of water
resource, which consists of a riparian zone comprised of native vegetation,
original or re-established, bordering streams, ponds, wetlands, springs,
reservoirs or lakes or other water resources designated by the state as
requiring a riparian buffer.
   "Stabilize" means to provide adequate measures, vegetative and/or
structural, that will prevent erosion from occurring.
   "Stream" is a linear surface water that is not a wet-weather conveyance as
determined by a qualified hydrological professional.
   "Stripping" means the removal of existing vegetation or soils.
   "Wet weather conveyance" is a man-made or natural watercourse, including
natural watercourses that have been modified by channelization, that flow only
in direct response to precipitation runoff in their immediate locality, whose
channels are above the groundwater table and which do not support fish and
aquatic life and are not suitable for drinking water supplies, and in which
hydrological and biological analysis indicate that, under normal weather
conditions, due to naturally occurring ephemeral or low flow there is not
sufficient water to support fish, or multiple populations of obligate lotic
aquatic organisms whose life cycle includes an aquatic phase of at least two
(2) months. Determination of what channels are wet weather conveyances may be
made by a qualified hydrological professional.
   "Wetlands" are those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency or duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support a prevalence of vegetation typical to life in
saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include, but are not limited to,
swamps, bogs and similar areas. Wetlands are designated by federal or state
organizations with this responsibility.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-803. Standards for buffer zones.
The following standards shall apply for all riparian buffer zones:
      A.   The vegetated buffer shall begin at the ordinary high water level
and break in slope of the water resource.
      B.   The riparian buffer width shall depend upon the assessment status of
the drainage area's receiving waters for the project. Streams and other waters
with available parameters for siltation or habitat alteration or unassessed
waters will require buffer widths of 30 feet average. Streams or other waters
listed as Exceptional Tennessee Waters or water with unavailable parameters for
siltation or habitat alteration will require buffer widths of 60 feet average.
The required width of the buffer zone may be averaged, as long as the minimum
width of the buffer zone is equal to or greater than one half the average width
given above. Buffer averaging must be applied to each side of the stream or
other waters independently.
      C.   The vegetative target for the riparian buffer is undisturbed native
vegetation with woody vegetation (i.e. trees and shrubs) being the dominant
plant form along the banks.
      D.   There shall be no septic systems, permanent structures or impervious
cover within the riparian buffer zone.
      E.   Stormwater discharges should enter the riparian buffer as sheet
flow, not as concentrated flow. Exceptions to this are at the discretion of the
Public Works Department where site conditions would not allow sheet flow to be
achieved prior to entering the riparian buffer.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-804. Buffer zone management and maintenance requirements.
      A.   The riparian buffer zone shall be managed to enhance and maximize
the unique value of these resources. Management includes specific limitations
on alteration of the natural conditions of these resources. The following
practices or activities are not allowed within the buffer zone:
         1.   Soil disturbance by grading, stripping or other practices.
         2.   Filling or dumping.
         3.   Use, storage or application of herbicides, except for spot
spraying of noxious weeds or non-native species.
         4.   Storage or operation of motorized vehicles, except for
maintenance and emergency use approved by the Public Works Department.
      EXCLUSION: Any project that has received a state or federal permit
(including but not limited to Aquatic Resource Alteration Permits (ARAP), 401
or 404 permits) will be excluded from those requirements of this policy that
are superceded by requirements of the state or federal permits.
      B.   The following structures, practices, and activities are permitted in
the buffer zone, with specific design or maintenance features, subject to the
review of the Public Works Department.
         1.   Individual trees within the buffer zone may be removed which are
in danger of falling, causing damage to dwellings or other structures, or
causing blockages in the stream.
         2.   Roads, bridges, paths and utilities:
            a.   The right-of-way should be the minimum width needed to allow
for maintenance access and installation.
            b.   The angle of the crossing shall be perpendicular to the stream
or buffer in order to minimize clearing requirements.
            c.   A minimum number of road crossings should be used within each
subdivision, and no more than one stream crossing is allowed for every 1000
feet of buffer.
         3.   Stormwater management:
            a.   In new development, on-site and non-structural alternatives
will be preferred over larger facilities within the stream buffer. When
constructing stormwater management facilities (i.e. BMPs), the area cleared
will be limited to the area required for construction and adequate maintenance
access, as outlined in the Tennessee Erosion and Sediment Control Handbook.
            b.   Material dredged or otherwise removed from a BMP shall be
stored outside the buffer.
         4.   Stream restoration projects, facilities and activities approved
by Public Works are permitted within the riparian buffer zone.
         5.   Water quality monitoring and stream gauging are permitted within
the stream buffer zone, as approved by the Public Works Department.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-805. Exemptions.
These provisions shall apply to all proposed development except for that
development which prior to the effective date of this policy:
      A.   Is covered by a valid, unexpired plat in accordance with development
regulations.
      B.   Is covered by a valid, unexpired building permit. (as added by Ord.
#08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01, February 2015, and Ord.
#O24- 06-18, July 2024)
14-806. Variances and modifications.
The Public Works Director may reduce or modify the requirement for a stream
buffer zone for projects which will not result in disturbance of the land or
where on-site conditions clearly demonstrate that the site is not now occupied
by riparian habitat vegetation and would not effectively respond to riparian
re-vegetation. An applicant requesting such a waiver shall submit sufficient
information to substantiate the request to waive the requirement. (as added by
Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01, February 2015, and
Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-807. Enforcement.
   A.    Enforcement authority. The director of the Public Works Department
(hereafter) referred to as director) or his or her designees shall have the
authority to issue notices of violation and citations, and to impose the civil
penalties to anyone that violates this chapter, who violates the provisions of
any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or refuses to comply
with any lawful communication or notice to abate or take corrective action. The
director's enforcement authority includes the following sections as set forth
in the City's Enforcement Response Plan (ERP).
   B.   Notification of violation.
      1.   Written notice. Whenever the director finds that any permittee or
any other person has violated or is violating this chapter, the director may
serve upon such person written notice of the violation. Within fourteen (14)
days of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted to the director. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the discharger of liability for any violations occurring before or
after receipt of the notice of violation.
      2.   Consent orders. The director is empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the person to correct
the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent
orders shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders issued
pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5) below.
      3.   Show cause hearing. The director may order any person who violates
this chapter, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The hearing shall be before the Public Works director. Notice shall be
served on the person specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action and the reasons for such action, and a request that
the violator show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the meetings shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing.
      4.   Compliance order. When the director finds that any person has
violated or continues to violate this chapter, he or she may issue an order to
the violator directing that, following a specific time period, adequate
structures, devices, be installed or procedures implemented and properly
operated. Orders may also contain such other requirements as might be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the non-compliance, including
the construction of appropriate structures, installation of devices, self-
monitoring, and management practices.
      5.   Cease and desist orders. When the director finds that any person has
violated or continues to violate this chapter, the director may issue an order
to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons in
noncompliance to:
         a.   Comply forthwith; or
         b.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations.
   C.   Conflicting standards. Whenever there is a conflict between any
standard contained in this chapter and in the BMP manual adopted by the
municipality, the strictest standard shall prevail.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-808. Penalties.
   A.    Violations. Any person who shall commit any act declared unlawful
under this chapter, who violates any provision of this chapter, who violates
the provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or who fails or
refuses to comply with any lawful communication or notice to abate or take
corrective action by the Public Works Department, shall be guilty of a civil
offense.
   B.   Penalties. Under the authority provided in Tennessee Code Annotated §
68-221-1106, the municipality declares that any person violating the provisions
of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the Public Works Department
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per day for each day of violation. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
   C.   Measuring civil penalties. In assessing a civil penalty, the director
of the Public Works Department may consider:
      1.   The harm done to the public health or the environment;
      2.   Whether the civil penalty imposed will be a substantial economic
deterrent to the illegal activity;
      3.   The economic benefit gained by the violator;
      4.   The amount of effort put forth by the violator to remedy this
violation;
      5.   Any unusual or extraordinary enforcement costs incurred by the
municipality;
      6.   The amount of penalty established by ordinance or resolution for
specific categories of violations; and
      7.   Any equities of the situation which outweigh the benefit of imposing
any penalty or damage assessment.
   D.   Recovery of damages and costs. In addition to the civil penalty in
subsection (B) above, the municipality may recover:
      1.   All damages proximately caused by the violator to the municipality,
which may include any reasonable expenses incurred in investigating violations
of, and enforcing compliance with, this chapter, or any other actual damages
caused by the violation.
      2.   The costs of the municipality's maintenance of stormwater facilities
when the user of such facilities fails to maintain them as required by this
chapter.
   E.   Other remedies. The municipality may bring legal action to enjoin the
continuing violation of this chapter, and the existence of any other remedy, at
law or equity, shall be no defense to any such actions.
   F.   Remedies cumulative. The remedies set forth in this section shall be
cumulative, not exclusive, and it shall not be a defense to any action, civil
or criminal, that one (1) or more of the remedies set forth herein has been
sought or granted.
   G.   Referral to TDEC. In accordance with the city's enforcement response
plan and the NPDES permit requirements, the Public Works Department may also
notify TDEC of violations.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
14-809. Appeals.
   Pursuant to Tennessee Code Annotated § 68-221-1106(d), any person aggrieved
by the imposition of a civil penalty or damage assessment as provided by this
chapter may appeal said penalty or damage assessment to the Board of
Environmental Appeals.
   A.   Appeals to be in writing. The appeal shall be in writing and filed with
the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after the civil penalty and/or damage
assessment is served in any manner authorized by law.
   B.   Public hearing. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Board of Environmental
Appeals shall hold a public hearing within thirty (30) days. Ten (10) days
prior notice of the time, date, and location of said hearing shall be published
in a daily newspaper of general circulation. Ten (10) days notice by registered
mail shall also be provided to the aggrieved party, such notice to be sent to
the address provided by the aggrieved party at the time of appeal.
   C.   Appealing decisions of the Board of Environmental Appeals. Any alleged
violator may appeal a decision of the Board of Environmental Appeals pursuant
to the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 27, Chapter 8.
      1.   If a petition for review of such damage assessment or civil penalty
is not filed within thirty (30) days after the damage assessment or civil
penalty is served in any manner authorized by law, the violator shall be deemed
to have consented to the damage assessment or civil penalty, and it shall
become final.
(as added by Ord. #08-01-02, Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01,
February 2015, and Ord. #O24-06-18, July 2024)
CHAPTER 9
WATER WELLS AND USE OF SPRINGS
SECTION
   
14-901.   Definitions.
   
14-902.   General provisions.
   
14-903.   General requirements and procedures.
   
14-904.   Permit required.
   
14-905.   Well driller requirements.
   
14-906.   Construction standards for water wells.
   
14-907.   Testing water from water wells.
   
14-908.   Inspections.
   
14-909.   Appeals procedure.
   
14-910.   Penalties.
   
14-911.   Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality.
14-901. Definitions.
   (1)   "Commercial well." A well constructed for the purpose of providing
groundwater to a commercial business or public facility for use as a potable
water supply when public water is not available; for air conditioning, and
other heat exchange systems; sprinkler systems for landscaping and other land
beautification uses; nurseries; filling and retaining levels of lakes in
subdivisions, apartment complexes, and similar multiple dwelling facilities;
and any other such commercial uses.
   (2)   "Contamination." Alteration of the physical, chemical, or biological
quality of the water so that it is harmful or potentially dangerous to the
health of the users or for the intended use of the water, or to the extent it
poses a danger of polluting the groundwater aquifers.
   (3)   "Department." The City of Cookeville Department of Planning and Codes.
   (4)   "Domestic well." A well constructed for the primary purpose of
providing a source of drinking water to a single family residence.
   (5)   "Emergency." Unforeseen circumstances that exist beyond the control of
the applicant.
   (6)   "Justifiable need." A genuine need for a private water supply as
determined by the department and, which need is based upon the availability of
an adequate water supply to the premise whether from a public source or from an
existing spring or well that can produce the needed volume of water.
   (7)   "Owner." Any person or his legal representative, agent, or assign who
owns, leases, operates, or controls any parcel of land where a well is or may
be located.
   (8)   "Permit." An official document issued by the department granting the
specific activity set forth in the document.
   (9)   "Person." Any individual, firm, association, organization,
partnership, business, institution, enterprise, municipality, commission,
political subdivision or duly established entity, trust, corporation, company,
contractor, supplier, installer, user or owner, or any federal, state or local
government agency or public district or any officer or employee thereof.
   (10)   "Potable water supply." Any source of water which is satisfactory for
drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes, and meets the requirements of the
department.
   (11)   "Premise." A tract of land with the buildings thereon.
   (12)   "Private water supply." Any groundwater supply located on a premise
that is not obtained from a public water system.
   (13)   "Public water supply." Any publicly or privately owned water system
operating as a public utility which operates fifteen (15) or more service
connections or regularly serves twenty-five (25) people sixty (60) or more days
per year.
   (14)   "Repair." Any modification, replacement, or other alteration of any
well, or pumping equipment which requires a breaking or opening of the well
seal or any waterlines up to and including the pressure tank and any coupling
appurtenant thereto.
   (15)   "Site." Anyone legal unit of a subdivision, parcel of land, or
location where drilling activities are to take place.
   (16)   "Spring." A place where ground water flows naturally from a rock or
the soil onto the land surface or into a body of surface water.
   (17)   "Utilities." Any power lines or underground cables which supply
electrical power, telephone lines, cable television lines, natural gas lines,
water mains, water lines, or sewer lines.
   (18)   "Water well." Wells which are constructed and so equipped with
casings, screens, pumps, fittings, etc., and have been developed for the
primary purpose of producing a supply of water regardless of the intended usage
for said supply
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-902. General provisions.
   (1)   A new water well shall not be placed in service within identified in
the City of Cookeville, unless the property owner can demonstrate to the
department that the water meets or can be treated to meet applicable drinking
water quality criteria for domestic water supply as set forth in Tennessee Rule
Chapter 1200-4-3-.03, and that no other source of drinking water is available.
   (2)   A spring cannot be placed in service as a drinking water source within
identified in the City of Cookeville, unless the property owner can demonstrate
to the department that the water meets or can be treated to meet applicable
drinking water quality criteria (i.e., the criteria for domestic water supply,
as set forth in Tennessee Rule Chapter 1200-4-3-.03 (1)) and that no other
source of drinking water is available
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-903. General requirements and procedures.
   (1)   Any person requesting to use a spring as a drinking water source for
new residential or commercial construction or requiring the installation of a
water well in the City of Cookeville shall make application for permit to the
department.
   (2)   A permit may be obtained from the department, and if granted, such
permit shall be in force and in effect for one hundred and eighty (180) days
from the date of its issuance. If work has not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days of issuance, an extension may be granted by the department
upon request by the applicant. In addition, the Tennessee Water Well Act 1
requires that a Notice of lntent (NOI) be submitted to the Tennessee Division
of Water Supply, Water Well Program. A copy of the NOI shall be included with
the well application to the department.
   (3)   The department shall issue a notice of rejection whenever it
determines that an application for a permit fails to meet the requirements of
these rules and regulations, or any rules, order, regulation or standard
adopted pursuant thereto; or, if it is determined by the department that an
adequate water supply is otherwise available to the premise without the need to
construct a well or use a spring
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
1   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-10-111
14-904. Permit required.
   A permit shall be obtained from the department prior to beginning the
installation of a water well or use of a spring in the City of Cookeville. If
an application is approved by the department, the applicant shall be issued a
permit. Receipt of the permit shall constitute permission to begin
construction. Such permits may be revoked by the department upon the violation
by the holder of any terms of the permit or these rules and regulations or in
any emergency when, in the judgment of the department, the continued operation
of the water supply for any reason shall constitute a health hazard. The holder
of such permit, after such revocation, shall have the right of appeal
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-905. Well driller requirements.
   All water wells to be constructed in the City of Cookeville shall be
constructed by persons having a valid license under the Tennessee Department of
Environment and Conservation, Division of Water Supply
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-906. Construction standards for water wells.
   All wells shall be constructed in a manner that will guard against
contamination of the groundwater aquifers underlying the City of Cookeville,
and must comply with the standards as established in the rules of the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation, Division of Water Supply, chapter
1200-4-9, entitled Water Well Licensing Regulations and Well Construction
Standards.
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-907. Testing of water from water wells.
   If a new water well is installed in the City of Cookeville, laboratory
analytical testing of the well shall be performed. Upon completion,
disinfection of the water well shall be performed in accordance with Tennessee
Water Well Licensing Regulations and Well Construction Standards (chapter 1200-
4-9-.12). After disinfection, all water in the well and supply system shall be
pumped free of residual chlorine and a sample of fresh water from the well
shall be collected. The sample shall be collected at the well head prior to any
treatment (e.g., carbon filter, sand filter, UV, ozone, etc.). The water sample
shall be tested by an analytical laboratory approved by the State of Tennessee
for bacteriological, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and/or other analysis
designated by the department. The result shall be required to meet applicable
water quality criteria for coliform bacteria, VOCs or other parameters analyzed
prior to putting the well into service. A well shall not be used as a drinking
water source until a sample has been collected which produces acceptable
results and/or the property owner has been informed that treatment is required
to meet applicable drinking water quality criteria (chapter 1200-4-3.03 (1)).
The new water well shall be provided with a faucet or tap on the well discharge
line at or near the well head, prior to treatment equipment, for the collection
of water samples. The faucet shall be labeled "Test Port - Not for Use."
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-908. Inspections.
   During the construction, modification, repair, or abandonment of any well
the department may, but is not required to, conduct such periodic inspections
as it deems necessary to insure conformity with applicable standards. Duly
authorized representatives of the department may, at reasonable times, enter
upon and shall be given access to any premise for the purpose of such
inspection. All private water supplies may be subject to inspection by the
department, and said supplies shall be made available for the collection of
samples in order to determine the quality of the supply. Nothing in this
section shall require testing or monitoring of private water supplies by the
department. Water wells shall be abandoned in accordance with standards as
established in the, rules of the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation, Division of Water Supply, chapter 1200-4-9, entitled Water Well
Licensing Regulations and Well Construction Standards
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-909. Appeals procedure.
   Any person who feels aggrieved by an order of the department issued pursuant
to these rules and regulations shall be entitled to a hearing before the board
of zoning appeals (board) upon written request. The board shall have and
exercise the power, duty and responsibility to hear and decide all matters
concerning a variance to or an exception taken to any decision, ruling,
requirement, rule, regulations or order of the department.
   Such appeal shall be made within fifteen (15) days after receiving notice of
such decision, ruling, requirement, rule, regulation, or order by filing a
written notice of appeal directly to the board specifying the grounds thereof
and the relief requested. Such an appeal shall act as a stay of decision,
ruling, requirement, rule, regulation, or order in question until the board has
taken formal action on the appeal, except when the department has determined
that a health hazard exists. The department shall, not less than thirty (30)
days after the date of the receipt of the notice of appeal, set a date for the
hearing and shall give notice thereof by certified mail to the interested
parties
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-910. Penalties.
   The well driller or any other person who fails to comply with these rules
and regulations or the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder may be
subject to a fine of a minimum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day or a
maximum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day and each day such violation of these
rules and regulations occur shall constitute a separate offense
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
14-911. Provisions for unconstitutionality or illegality.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council of the City of
Cookeville that the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of
this chapter are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section of this title shall be declared unconstitutional or illegal by the
valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or illegality shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this chapter since the
same would have been enacted by the City Council of the City of Cookeville
without incorporation in this chapter of any such unconstitutional or illegal
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(as added by Ord. #08-06-11, July 2008)
TITLE 15
MOTOR VEHICLES, TRAFFIC AND PARKING 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Excavations and obstructions in streets, etc.:
title 16.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   MISCELLANEOUS.
      
2.   EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
      
3.   SPEED LIMITS.
      
4.   TURNING MOVEMENTS.
      
5.   STOPPING AND YIELDING.
      
6.   PARKING.
      
7.   ENFORCEMENT.
      
8.   ON-CALL WRECKER SERVICE.
      
9.   RESIDENTIAL PARKING DISTRICTS.
CHAPTER 1
MISCELLANEOUS 2
2   State law references
   Under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-307, the following offenses are
exclusively state offenses and must be tried in a state court or a court having
state jurisdiction: driving while intoxicated or drugged, as prohibited by
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-401; failing to stop after a traffic
accident, as prohibited by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-101, et seq.;
driving while license is suspended or revoked, as prohibited by Tennessee Code
Annotated, § 55-7-116; and drag racing, as prohibited by Tennessee Code
Annotated, § 55-10-501.
SECTION
   
15-101.   Motor vehicle requirements.
   
15-102.   Driving on streets closed for repairs.
   
15-103.   Reckless driving.
   
15-104.   Adoption of state traffic statutes and regulations.
   
15-105.   One-way streets.
   
15-106.   Exhibition driving.
   
15-107.   Window tinting.
   
15-108.   General requirements for traffic-control signs, etc.
   
15-109.   Presumption with respect to traffic-control signs, etc.
   
15-110.   School safety patrols.
   
15-111.   Driving through funerals or other processions.
   
15-112.   Damaging pavements.
   
15-113.   Powers and duties of the city manager relative to the traffic
regulations in general.
   
15-114.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles.
   
15-115.   Careless driving.
   
15-116.   State registration plates--definitions; registration plates required
on vehicles; manner of attachment and display; using plates of others and
lending; and offense.
   
15-117.   Compliance with financial responsibility law required.
15-101. Motor vehicle requirements.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle within the
corporate limits unless such vehicle is equipped with muffler, lights, brakes,
horn, and such other equipment as is prescribed and required by Tennessee Code
Annotated, title 55, chapter 9.
(1970 Code, § 9-101)
15-102. Driving on streets closed for repairs.
   No motor vehicle shall be driven upon any street that is barricaded or
closed in any way for the purpose of repairs. However, residents of such
streets shall be permitted access to their home.
(1970 Code, § 9-107, modified)
15-103. Reckless driving.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
(1970 Code, § 9-108)
15-104. Adoption of state traffic statutes and regulations.
   The violation of the provisions of Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-101
through the end of Chapter 8 as now it exists, or as may hereafter be amended
("rules of the road") or of any other state traffic statute or regulation
committed within the corporate limits of the city, is hereby declared to be an
offense of this section. This provision shall not apply to offenses over which
the state courts have been given exclusive jurisdiction. To the extent that the
remaining provisions in this title and chapter are inconsistent, the more
restrictive provision shall apply. (Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002, as amended by
Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-105. One-way streets.
   Where the municipality has designated certain streets for one-way traffic
and has posted signs indicating the authorized direction of travel at all
intersections offering access to such one-way streets, no person shall operate
any vehicle on such streets except in the indicated direction.
(1970 Code, § 9-110)
15-106. Exhibition driving.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the limits of the city in
such a manner that creates or causes unnecessary engine noise, tire squeal,
skid or slide upon acceleration or deceleration, that simulates a temporary
race or that causes a vehicle to turn abruptly or sway.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-107. Window tinting.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, upon a public highway,
street or road, any motor vehicle registered in this state, in which any
window, which has a visible light transmittance, equal to, but not less than,
that specified in the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 205, has been
altered, treated or replaced by the affixing, application or installation of
any material which:
   (1)   Has a visible light transmittance of less than thirty-five percent
(35%); or
   (2)   With the exception of the manufacturer's standard installed shade
band, reduces the visible light transmittance in the windshield below seventy
percent (70%). Exceptions which are noted in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-9-
107 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-108. General requirements for traffic-control signs, etc.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, markings, and devices required
hereinunder for a particular purpose shall conform to the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways, 1 as published by the Bureau
of Public Roads, 1978 edition as revised from time to time, and shall, so far
as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the municipality.
(1970 Code, § 9-115)
1   This manual may be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
15-109. Presumption with respect to traffic-control signs, etc.
   When a traffic-control sign, signal, marking, or device has been placed, the
presumption shall be that it is official and that it has been lawfully placed
by the proper municipal authority.
(1970 Code, § 9-117)
15-110. School safety patrols.
   All motorists and pedestrians shall obey the directions or signals of school
safety patrols when such patrols are assigned under the authority of the chief
of police and are acting in accordance with instructions; provided, that such
persons giving any order, signal, or direction shall at the time be in uniform
bearing the proper police insignia.
(1970 Code, § 9-118)
15-111. Driving through funerals or other processions.
   Except when otherwise directed by a police officer, no driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated.
(1970 Code, § 9-119)
15-112. Damaging pavements.
   No person shall operate upon any street of the municipality any vehicle,
motor propelled or otherwise, which by reason of its weight or the character of
its wheels, is likely to damage the surface or foundation of the street.
(1970 Code, § 9-120)
15-113. Powers and duties of the city manager relative to the traffic
regulations in general.
   The city manager, except as otherwise directed by this chapter and except as
otherwise directed from time to time by the city council, shall have power and
he is hereby authorized to regulate the operation and parking of vehicles
within the corporate limits of the city by the erection or placing of proper
signs or markers indicating prohibited or limited parking, restricted speed
areas, through or arterial streets, stop streets, "U" turns, play streets,
school zones, hospital zones, loading and unloading zones, quiet zones and
other signs or markers indicating the place and manner of operating or parking
vehicles within the corporate limits of the city. The city manager shall also
have power and he is hereby authorized to designate truck routes and to
regulate the parking of vehicles of various sizes and weights. The city manager
shall further have power and he is hereby authorized to cause all such
necessary signs or markers to be erected or placed on any street or part of a
street when he deems such action necessary.
   The city manager is further empowered and authorized to mark off traffic
lanes on streets and parts of streets indicating and directing the flow of
traffic, when, in his judgment, such action is necessary.
   The experience of such signs or markers at any place within the corporate
limits of the city shall be prima facie evidence that such signs or markers
were erected or placed by and at the direction of the city manager and in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign or marker erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of this
section when so placed or erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1970 Code, § 9-121)
15-114. Motorcycles and motor driven cycles.
   Motorcycle defined.
   Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   Motor driven cycle defined. Every motorcycle, including every motor scooter,
with a motor which produces not to exceed five (5) brake horsepower.
   Every person riding or operating a motorcycle, or motor driven cycle shall
be subject to the provisions of all traffic ordinances, rules, and regulations
of the city applicable to the driver or operator of other vehicles except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application to motorcycles,
or motor driven cycles.
   No person operating a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall ride other than
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall
not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle or
motor driven cycle unless such motorcycle is designed to carry more than one
person, in which event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular seat
if designed for two persons, or upon another seat firmly attached to the rear
or side of the operator.
   No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall operate any motorcycle
or any motor driven cycle while any other person is a passenger upon said motor
vehicle.
   A person shall ride upon a motorcycle or motor driven cycle only while
sitting astride the seat, headlamp illuminated, facing forward, with one leg on
each side of the motorcycle.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor driven cycle while carrying
any packages, bundle, or other article which prevents that person from keeping
both hands on the handlebar.
   No operator shall carry any person, nor shall any person ride, in a position
that will interfere with the operation or control of the motorcycle or block
the view of the motorcycle operator.
   All motorcycles and motor driven cycles are entitled to full use of the
public ways within the corporate limits and no motor vehicle shall be driven in
such a manner as to deprive any motorcycle or any motor driven cycle of the
full use of a lane. This subsection shall not apply to motorcycles or motor
driven cycles operated two abreast in a single lane.
   The operator of a motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall not overtake and
pass in the same lane occupied by the vehicle overtaken.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle or motor driven cycle between lanes of
traffic or adjacent lanes or rows of vehicles.
   Motorcycles or motor driven cycles shall not be operated more than two
abreast in a single lane.
   No person shall drive a motorcycle or motor driven cycle upon any public way
within the corporate limits at a greater speed than the speed prescribed or
other vehicles or at a greater speed than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions and circumstances then existing.
   No person riding upon any motorcycle or any motor driven cycle shall attach
the same or himself to any vehicle upon any street within the corporate limits
of the city.
   Every motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall be equipped with at least one
and not more than two headlights, which shall be constructed, equipped,
arranged and focused so that at all times mentioned here and after in this
section, under normal atmospheric conditions and on a level roadway, a light
sufficient to render clearly discernible a person two hundred (200) feet ahead
will be produced, but such lights shall not project a glaring light to persons
in front of such headlights. The headlights shall be fully illuminated during
periods of operation.
   No person shall ride or drive a motorcycle or motor driven cycle upon any
sidewalk in the city except where necessary to cross same in leaving or
entering premises adjacent to a roadway.
   No person shall operate a motorcycle, or motor driven cycle upon any street
in the corporate limits unless it is equipped with a horn, bell, or other
sounding device capable of giving a sound audible for a distance of at least
one hundred and fifty (150) feet; provided, that no motorcycle or motor driven
cycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use thereon any siren or
whistle.
   Every motorcycle, or motor driven cycle when ridden or driven upon any
street in the corporate limits shall be equipped with at least one brake, which
may be operated by hand or foot.
   All motorcycles and motor driven cycles operated on the public ways within
the corporate limits shall be equipped with crash bars approved by the state's
commissioner of public safety except in the case where the displacement of the
motorcycle or motor driven engine is seven hundred and fifty (750) cubic
centimeters (forty-five and seventy-five/one hundred (45.75) cubic inches) or
less and the operator is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
   Each driver of a motorcycle or motor driven cycle and any passenger thereon
shall be required to wear on his head a crash helmet of a type approved by the
state's commissioner of safety.
   Every motorcycle or motor driven cycle operated upon any public way within
the corporate limits shall be equipped with a windshield of a type approved by
the state's commissioner of safety, or, in the alternative, the operator and
any passenger on any such motorcycle or motor driven cycle shall be required to
wear safety goggles of a type approved by the state's commissioner of safety
for the purpose of preventing any flying object from striking the operator or
any passenger in the eyes.
   All motorcycles and motor driven cycles operated upon any public way within
the corporate limits shall be equipped with a rearview mirror and securely
attached footrest for the operators and passengers on all motorcycles and motor
driven cycles.
   No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor driven cycle with
handlebars more than fifteen (15) inches in height above that portion of the
seat occupied by the operator.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride on any vehicle in
violation of this section and it shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian
to knowingly permit any minor to operate a motorcycle or motor driven cycle in
violation of this section.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and fined accordingly.
(1970 Code, § 9-122)
15-115. Careless driving.
   Every person operating a motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motor driven cycle on
any public road, highway, street, alley, or on any area open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular traffic within the corporate limits of the
City of Cookeville, shall drive such vehicle in a careful and prudent manner,
having due regard for the width, grade, curves, corners, traffic, and use of
these roadways and areas and all other attendant circumstances, so as not to
endanger the life, limb, or property of any person.
   Failure to drive in such a manner shall constitute careless driving.
   Any person violating this article shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and fined accordingly.
(1970 Code, § 9-123)
15-116. State registration plates--definitions; registration plates required on
vehicles; manner of attachment and display; using plates of others and lending;
and offense.
   (1)   Definitions:
      (a)   "Passenger vehicle." Every motor vehicle, except motorcycles and
motor driven cycles, designed for carrying ten (10) passengers or less and used
for the transportation of persons.
      (b)   "Truck." Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained
primarily for the transportation of property.
      (c)   "Tractor." Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for
drawing other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a
part of the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
      (d)   "Trailer." Every vehicle with or without motive power other than a
pole trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by
a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
      (e)   "Semitrailer." Every vehicle without motive power and not a motor
vehicle as herein defined, other than a pole trailer, designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
      (f)   "Motorcycle." Every motorcycle having a seat or saddle for the use
of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground, but excluding a tractor.
      (g)   "Motor driven cycle." Every motorcycle, including every motor
scooter, with a motor which produces not to exceed five (5) brake horsepower.
      (h)   "Registration." The registration certificate or certificates and
registration plates issued under the laws of the state pertaining to the
registration of vehicles.
   (2)   Registration plates required. Except as otherwise provided in the
Tennessee Code Annotated, no person shall operate any vehicle within the
corporate city limits unless such vehicle shall have affixed thereto a current
registration plate issued for the operation of the vehicle.
   The registration plate issued for passenger motor vehicles shall be attached
on the rear of the vehicle. The registration plate issued for those trucks with
a manufacturers ton rating not exceeding three-quarters ton and having a panel
or pick-up body style, and also those issued for all motor homes, regardless of
ton rating or body style thereof, shall be attached to the rear of the vehicle.
The registration plate issued for all other trucks and truck tractors shall be
attached to the front of the vehicle. All dealer plates, and those registration
plates issued for motorcycles, motor driven cycles, trailers, and semitrailers,
shall be attached to the rear of the vehicle.
   (3)   Manner of attachment and display. Every registration plate shall, at
all times, be securely fastened in a horizontal position to the vehicle for
which it is issued so to prevent the plate from swinging, and at a height of
not less than twelve (12) inches from the ground, measuring from the bottom of
such plate, in a place and position to be clearly visible, and shall be
maintained free from foreign materials and in a condition to be clearly
legible.
   (4)   Using plates of others or lending. No person shall lend to another any
certificate of title, certificate of registration, registration plate, special
plate, or permit issued to him, if the person desiring to borrow the same would
not be entitled to the use thereof, nor shall any person knowingly permit the
use of any of the same by one not entitled thereto, nor shall any person
display upon a vehicle any certificate of registration, registration plate, or
permit not issued for such vehicle or not otherwise lawfully used thereon.
   (5)   Offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and fined accordingly.
(1970 Code, § 9-124)
15-117. Compliance with financial responsibility law required.
   (1)   Every vehicle operated within the corporate limits must be in
compliance with the financial responsibility law.
   (2)   At the time the driver of a motor vehicle is charged with any moving
violation under title 55, chapters 8 and 10, parts 1-5, chapter 50; any
provision of title 15 of the Cookeville Municipal Code; or at the time of an
accident for which notice is required under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-
106, the officer shall request such evidence of financial responsibility as
required by this section. In case of an accident for which notice is required
under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-10-106 the officer shall request such
evidence from all drivers involved in the accident, without regard to apparent
or actual fault.
   (3)   For the purposes of this section, "financial responsibility" means:
      (a)   Documentation, such as the declaration page of an insurance policy,
an insurance binder, or an insurance card from an insurance company authorized
to do business in Tennessee, stating that a policy of insurance meeting the
requirements of the Tennessee Financial Responsibility Law of 1977, compiled in
Tennessee Code Annotated, chapter 12, title 55, has been issued.
      (b)   A certificate, valid for one (1) year, issued by the commissioner
of safety, stating that a cash deposit or bond in the amount required by the
Tennessee Financial Responsibility Law of 1977, compiled in Tennessee Code
Annotated, chapter 12, title 55, has been paid or filed with the commissioner,
or has qualified as a self-insurer under Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-12-111;
or
      (c)   The motor vehicle being operated at the time of the violation was
owned by a carrier subject to the jurisdiction of the department of safety or
the interstate commerce commission, or was owned by the United States, the
State of Tennessee, or any political subdivision thereof, and that such motor
vehicle was being operated with the owner's consent.
   (4)   Civil offense. It is a civil offense to fail to provide evidence of
financial responsibility pursuant to this section. Any violation of this
section is punishable by a civil penalty of up to fifty dollars ($50). The
civil penalty prescribed by this section shall be in addition to any other
penalty prescribed by the laws of this state or the City of Cookeville's
municipal code of ordinances.
   (5)   Evidence of compliance after violation. On or before the court date,
the person charged with a violation of this section may submit evidence of
compliance with this section in effect at the time of the violation. If the
court is satisfied that compliance was in effect at the time of the violation,
the charge of failure to provide evidence of financial responsibility may be
dismissed.
(Ord. #002-02-05, March 2002)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY VEHICLES
SECTION
   
15-201.   Operation of authorized emergency vehicles.
15-201. Following emergency vehicles.
   No driver of any vehicle shall follow any authorized emergency vehicle
apparently travelling in response to an emergency call closer than five hundred
(500) feet or drive or park such vehicle within 1500 feet of where fire
apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(1970 Code, § 9-105)
CHAPTER 3
SPEED LIMITS
SECTION
   
15-301.   In general.
   
15-302.   At intersections.
   
15-303.   In school zones and near playgrounds.
   
15-304.   In congested areas.
15-301. In general.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle upon
any highway or street of this municipality at a rate of speed in excess of
thirty (30) miles per hour except where the municipality has erected or
authorized official signs indicating a greater lawful speed limit.
(1970 Code, § 9-201, modified, as amended by Ord. #O18-10-29, October 2018)
15-302. At intersections.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle
through any intersection within this municipality at a rate of speed in excess
of fifteen (15) miles per hour unless such person is driving on a street
regulated by traffic-control signals or signs which require traffic to stop or
yield on the intersecting streets.
(1970 Code, § 9-202)
15-303. In school zones and near playgrounds.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle
exceeding fifteen (15) miles per hour, unless otherwise posted, when passing a
school during a recess period when a warning flasher or flashers are in
operation, or during a period of forty (40) minutes before the opening hour of
a school or a period of forty (40) minutes after the closing hour of a school,
while children are actually going to or leaving school. Any person violating
this section shall be prima facie guilty of reckless driving.
(1970 Code, § 9-203, modified)
15-304. In congested areas.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive a motor vehicle
through any congested area within this municipality at a rate of speed in
excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour when official signs indicating such speed
limit have been posted by authority of the municipality.
(1970 Code, § 9-204)
CHAPTER 4
TURNING MOVEMENTS
SECTION
   
15-401.   U-turns.
   
15-402   Cutting through private property.
15-401. U-turns.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to turn a motor vehicle that is moving in
a forward direction on a public roadway in such a manner that causes it to
travel in the opposite direction on the same roadway without first leaving said
roadway and entering some driveway, parking area or other roadway.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-402. Cutting through private property.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not drive across private property in any
manner for the purpose of avoiding an intersection, cruise or drive aimlessly
upon or through a parking lot, shopping center, or other retail store premises
within the City of Cookeville for the purpose of avoiding obedience to any
traffic regulation or ordinance of the City of Cookeville or when a sign has
been posted prohibiting such activity. It shall be the duty of the owner of the
property on which signs are posted to request in writing that the City of
Cookeville Police Department enforce this section on their property. The
responsibility and costs for erection of all such signs shall be borne by the
property owner and all signs shall be subject to the approval of the
appropriate city officials and shall conform to standard uniform traffic signs
customarily used by the City of Cookeville.
   Cruising or driving aimlessly within a shopping center is hereby defined as
driving back and forth through a parking lot, shopping center or other retail
store premises. A person who drives across the same point within such an area
three times or more within a thirty (30) minute period is presumed to be
cruising and such shall constitute a violation of this section. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished accordingly.
(Ord. #000-09-34, Oct. 2000)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING AND YIELDING
SECTION
   
15-501.   To prevent obstructing an intersection.
15-501. To prevent obstructing an intersection.
   No driver shall enter any intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of such intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
traffic in or on the intersecting street or crosswalk. This provision shall be
effective notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(1970 Code, § 9-403)
CHAPTER 6
PARKING
SECTION
   
15-601.   Purpose.
   
15-602.   Authorization.
   
15-603.   Definitions.
   
15-604.   Administration and enforcement.
   
15-605.   Applicability.
   
15-606.   Parking prohibited on certain streets.
   
15-607.   Parking requirements.
   
15-608.   General restrictions and provisions.
   
15-609.   Angle parking.
   
15-610.   Parking space limitations.
   
15-611.   Loading and unloading zones.
   
15-612.   Regulations for metered parking.
   
15-613.   Regulations for limited-time parking.
   
15-614.   Handicapped drivers and passengers parking.
   
15-615.   Parking in city parking lots.
   
15-616.   Parking of commercial or fleet vehicles prohibited.
   
15-617.   Parking on parade route or event venue.
   
15-618.   All night parking; abandonment and junked vehicles.
   
15-619.   Trucks—parking prohibited.
   
15-620.   Penalties and remedies for violation of preceding sections.
15-601. Purpose.
   The purpose of this Chapter is to establish provisions for parking on or
adjacent to city streets and public ways, including any publically maintained
thoroughfare or right-of-way designed or intended for vehicular traffic
(hereafter referred to as street), or in city owned and/or city controlled
parking lots. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-602. Authorization.
   (1)   The establishment of restricted parking locations, time limits,
metered parking, and other parking restrictions for parking on streets, parking
adjacent to streets, and within city owned and/or city controlled parking lots
shall be authorized only by the City Manager according to this Chapter.
   (2)   Restrictions authorized by the City Manager shall be indicated by
appropriate signage and/or markings where necessary. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec.
2017)
15-603. Definitions.
   (1)   “Abandoned vehicle” shall be defined as any vehicle parked on a
street, adjacent to a street, or in a city owned and/or city controlled parking
lot for longer than three (3) days, except those vehicles parked outside a
residence and hereafter provided.
   (2)   “Junked vehicle” shall be defined as any vehicle which is inoperative
or reasonably appears to be inoperative; wrecked; dismantled; partially
dismantled; or discarded. Conditions which may indicate that a motor vehicle is
"junked" include, but are not limited to extensively rusted, without all
properly inflated tires, without windshields or window glass, without major
chassis components or brake lights, or without any other vehicle component
required by law for legal operation on a street.
   (3)   “Parking” shall be defined as the standing or stopping of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and
while actually engaged in, loading or unloading property or passengers.
   (4)   “Parking adjacent to the street” shall be defined as an area to park a
vehicle within the public right-of-way located adjacent to but outside the
travel lanes of a street. Such spaces may be parallel or angled from the travel
lane and may or may not be marked.
   (5)   “Parking on streets” shall be defined as the parking of a vehicle
partially or entirely within the travel lane of a street.
   (6)   “Street” shall be defined as all the public ways maintained by the
City of Cookeville, and any state or federal highway located in the city limits
of Cookeville, Tennessee. Where applicable, street shall also include any alley
or other right-of-way maintained by the City of Cookeville.
   (7)   “Travel lane” shall be defined as the portion of a street designed to
carry vehicle traffic, not including shoulders. For local streets the travel
lane is between eighteen (18) to twenty (20) feet, depending on design. For
collector streets the width is between twenty-two (22) and twenty-four (24)
feet.
   (8)   “Vehicle” shall be defined as any self-propelled vehicle designed
primarily for transportation of persons or goods along public streets, alleys,
or other public ways. (Ord. #O17- 10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-604. Administration and enforcement.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Cookeville Police Department. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-605. Applicability.
   The provisions of this Chapter regulating or prohibiting the parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times; at those times herein specified; or as
indicated on official signs and/or markings. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-606. Parking prohibited on certain streets.
   (1)   Parking on or adjacent to city streets classified as urban interstate,
limited access highway, major arterial, and minor arterial as determined by the
Classification of Thoroughfares maintained by the Cookeville Planning
Department and available on the City of Cookeville website is prohibited. This
provision excludes parking areas located adjacent to streets zoned as Central
Business District.
   (2)   Parking on city streets classified as major collectors as determined
by the Classification of Thoroughfares maintained by the Planning Department
and available on the City of Cookeville website shall be prohibited.
   (3)   Parking on city streets classified as minor collectors as determined
by the Classification of Thoroughfares maintained by the Planning Department
and available on the City of Cookeville website shall be prohibited where an
unobstructed width of the travel lane opposite a parked vehicle of not less
than eighteen (18) feet cannot be provided.
   (4)   Parking on local streets as determined by the Classification of
Thoroughfares maintained by the Planning Department and available on the City
of Cookeville website shall be prohibited where an unobstructed width of the
travel lane opposite a parked vehicle of not less than twelve (12) feet cannot
be provided.
   (5)   No person shall park a vehicle on or adjacent to a street in such a
manner or under such conditions that obstructs traffic. A clear view of the
parked vehicle shall be available from a distance of at least two hundred (200)
feet in each direction upon such street. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-607. Parking requirements.
   (1)   No person shall be permitted to park, unattended, without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing the key from the ignition,
and, when parking upon any grade, turning the front wheel to the curb or side
of the street.
   (2)   Except as provided elsewhere within this Chapter, every vehicle parked
on or adjacent to a street within this municipality shall be so parked that its
right wheels are approximately parallel to and within eighteen (18) inches of
the right edge or curb of the street. On one-way streets where the municipality
has not placed signs prohibiting the same, vehicles may be permitted to park on
the left side of the street, and in such cases the left wheels shall be
required to be within eighteen (18) inches of the left edge or curb of the
street.
   (3)   No person shall park and leave unattended a vehicle on or adjacent to
any street, or in any city owned and/or city controlled parking lot, or in any
location accessible to the general public in the City of Cookeville with the
engine running, unless the vehicle is locked and secured, and has been started
by a remote starting device that prevents the vehicle from being driven by
anyone other than the owner of said vehicle.
   (5)   No person shall park or store on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot any device, which is not capable
of being driven under its own power (self-propelled), or which cannot legally
be operated on public streets. Such devices include but are not limited to
trailers and boats. Any such device parked on or adjacent to the street or in
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot is subject to being removed.
   (6)   No person shall park on or adjacent to any street, or in any city
owned and/or city controlled parking lot any vehicle or device with an expired
license plate or registration tag or without a license plate or registration
tag.
   (7)   No person shall locate any merchandise for sale on or adjacent to any
street, or in any city owned and/or city controlled parking lot. This includes
vehicles; trailers; motorcycles; and any and all other merchandise of any type.
(Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-608. General restrictions and provisions.
   (1)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle;:
      (a)   In any place or manner that obstructs, blocks or impedes traffic;
      (b)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (c)   On a sidewalk;
      (d)   Within an intersection;
      (e)   On a crosswalk;
      (f)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (g)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (h)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, or within a highway
tunnel, unless signs or meters have been installed by the City to indicate that
parking is permitted;
      (i)   On any railroad tracks;
      (j)   On any controlled-access street;
      (k)   In the dividing area or median of any divided street (paved or
unpaved), including crossovers;
      (l)   At any place where official signs or markings prohibit stopping or
parking;
      (m)   In front of a ramp for handicapped persons so as to obstruct access
to said ramp;
   (2)   No person shall park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
      (a)   In front of or within fifteen (15) feet of a public or private
driveway, or garage entrance, unless otherwise designated;
      (b)   Opposite a public or private driveway, or garage entrance, unless
there is at least twelve (12) feet of unobstructed roadway or otherwise
designated;
      (c)   Within fifty (50) feet of the apex (center point) of a curve that
would impede access of large emergency vehicles and fire apparatus;
      (d)   In any designated or properly marked fire lane;
      (e)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
      (f)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a mailbox;
      (g)   Within thirty (30) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection, unless
otherwise designated;
      (h)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the
roadway, unless otherwise designated;
      (i)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy-five (75) feet of said entrance (when properly marked or
signposted).
   (3)   No person shall park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
temporarily while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
      (a)   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (b)   In an alley;
      (c)   At any place where official signs or markings prohibit stopping or
parking;
      (d)   Within thirty (30) feet of the nearest intersection, unless
otherwise designated.
   (4)   No person shall park a vehicle on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot for the principal purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale.
   (5)   No person shall park a vehicle on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot for the principal purpose of
washing or repairing such vehicle except in the case of repairs necessitated by
an emergency.
   (6)   No person shall park a vehicle on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot for the primary purpose of
advertising.
   (7)   The restrictions imposed by this Chapter shall not apply to the driver
of any vehicle which is disabled in such manner and to such extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle in such
position. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-609. Angle parking.
   (1)   On areas adjacent to streets which have been signed or marked by the
municipality for angle parking, no person shall park a vehicle other than at
the angle indicated by such signs or markings.
   (2)   No vehicle shall be backed to the curb in an angled parking space
adjacent to the street.
   (3)   No person shall angle park any vehicle which has a trailer attached
thereto or which has a length in excess of twenty (20) feet on any marked
angled parking space adjacent to the street. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-610. Parking space limitations.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any marked parking space so that any part
of such vehicle occupies more than one such space or protrudes beyond the
official markings on the street or curb designating such space. If the vehicle
is too large to be parked within a single marked space it shall be parked in a
manner that will not obstruct normal traffic flow. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-611. Loading and unloading zones.
   (1)   No person shall park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other
than for the expeditious and temporary loading or unloading of passengers or
merchandise in any place marked by the City of Cookeville as a loading and
unloading zone.
   (2)   The City Manager may authorize the establishment of a loading zone for
a retail business if the following conditions are met:
      (a)   The retail business must not have access to an existing loading
zone or area.
      (b)   The retail business must sell merchandise too large or too heavy to
be carried in a standard passenger car. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-612. Regulations for metered parking.
   (1)   On streets where parking meters have been installed, parking shall be
regulated between the hours of 8:30 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on all days except
Saturdays, Sundays and those holidays observed by the City of Cookeville.
Alternate time restrictions may be established by the City Manager. The
presumption shall be that all parking meters were lawfully installed by the
City of Cookeville.
   (2)   Any parking space regulated by a parking meter may be lawfully
occupied by a vehicle only after a proper payment has been deposited in the
parking meter and the said meter has been activated or placed in operation in
accordance with the instructions printed thereon.
   (3)   No owner or operator of any vehicle shall park or allow his vehicle to
be parked in such a space when the parking meter therefor indicates no parking
time allowed, whether such indication is the result of a failure to deposit
payment or to operate the lever or other actuating device on the meter, or the
result of the automatic operation of the meter following the expiration of the
lawful parking time subsequent to depositing payment therein at the time the
vehicle was parked.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park
or allow his vehicle to be parked across any line or marking designating a
parking meter space or otherwise so that such vehicle is not entirely within
the designated parking meter space; provided, however, that vehicles which are
too large to park within one space may be permitted to occupy two adjoining
spaces provided proper payment is placed in both meters. This shall not apply
if the parking meter is not functioning properly.
   (5)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, deface,
tamper with, willfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of any parking
meter.
   (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in a parking meter any
slug or other substitute for a coin of the United States other than those coins
designated on the meter as proper, or provide other fraudulent forms of payment
to parking meters. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-613. Regulations for limited-time parking.
   (1)   On streets where limited-time parking signs have been installed,
parking shall be regulated between the hours of 8:30 A.M. and 4:00 P.M. on all
days except Saturdays, Sundays and those holidays observed by the City of
Cookeville. Alternate time restrictions may be established by the City Manager.
The presumption shall be that all limited-time parking signs were lawfully
installed by the City of Cookeville.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park
or allow his vehicle to be parked in a space regulated by a limited-time sign
for more than the maximum period of time indicated on sign.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to deface, tamper
with, willfully break, destroy, or impair the usefulness of limited-time
parking sign. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-614. Handicapped drivers and passengers parking.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person not having a distinguishing
registration, license plate, placard or other authorization issued pursuant to
Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-21-101 through § 55-21-108, to park in any
parking space reserved for handicapped drivers and passengers under said state
statues.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle so that a
portion of such vehicle encroaches into a disabled parking space in a manner
which restricts, or reasonably could restrict, a person confined to a
wheelchair from exiting or entering a motor vehicle properly parked within such
disabled parking space on both public or private property. (Ord. #O17-10-18,
Dec. 2017)
15-615. Parking in city parking lots.
   (1)   In city owned and/or city controlled parking lots, parking is
permitted for operable licensed motorized vehicles only.
   (2)   The storage or parking of non-motorized vehicles, trailers, equipment
or merchandise in any city owned and/or city controlled parking lots is
prohibited.
   (3)   Mobile food vendors in operation as authorized in
Title 9, Chapter 12 of this Municipal Code and vehicles or trailers utilized in
City authorized special events shall be excluded from this provision only
during permitted times and places. The City Manager may authorize the temporary
parking or storage of trailers or equipment utilized in construction or repairs
for which a building permit has been issued by the City of Cookeville.
   (4)   Parking fees, where applicable, shall be authorized and established by
the City Council.
   (5)   The City may restrict parking in city owned and/or city controlled
parking lots by appropriate signage. Any parking in violation of the posted
signage is a violation of this Chapter and the vehicle is subject to citation
and/or towing.
   (6)   The City may also designate parking places by appropriate signage. Any
parking in violation of the posted signage is a violation of this Chapter and
the vehicle is subject to citation and/or towing. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-616. Parking of commercial or fleet vehicles prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any business, firm, or corporation to park
overnight any fleet motor vehicle on or adjacent to any street or in any city
owned and/or city controlled parking lot between the hours of 5:30 p.m. to 7:30
a.m. unless a special permit is issued for extraordinary cause. Government
vehicles are exempt from this provision. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-617. Parking on parade route or event venue.
   (1)   Whenever in the judgment of the Chief of Police it is necessary, the
Chief of Police may prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a street
or part thereof constituting a part of an event venue, the route of a parade or
procession, erect temporary traffic signs to that effect, and prohibit and
prevent such parking.
   (2)   It shall be a parking violation to park or leave unattended any
vehicle in violation of such signs or directions.
   (3)   Any vehicle blocking a parade or event function may be towed at the
owner's expense. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-618. All night parking; abandoned and junked vehicles.
   (1)   It shall be a parking violation for anyone to park any vehicle on or
adjacent to any street, or in any city owned and/or city controlled parking lot
for a period of twenty-four (24) hours or longer, unless parked in close
proximity to the residence for the owner of the vehicle, or a guest of said
residence.
   (2)   A vehicle parked in one place on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot for three (3) consecutive days,
after being marked with a warning, shall be deemed abandoned. An abandoned
vehicle located on or adjacent to any street or in any city owned and/or city
controlled parking lot shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be subject
to towing. This shall not apply to a vehicle lawfully parked by an owner of a
residence immediately adjacent to the residence.
   (3)   Any vehicle deemed to be a junked vehicle parked on or adjacent to any
street, or in any city owned and/or city controlled parking lot shall be deemed
a public nuisance. It shall be a parking violation for any person or persons to
cause or allow a junked vehicle to be placed, located, maintained or to exist
on or adjacent to any street, or in any city owned and/or city controlled
parking lot. Any junked vehicle located on or adjacent to any street, or in any
city owned and/or city controlled parking lot is subject to towing. (Ord. #O17-
10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-619. Trucks—Parking prohibited.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning,
operating or having control of any truck, truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer,
pole trailer, bus or motor vehicle in excess of one (1) ton capacity to park
the same on or adjacent to any street within the corporate limits, except that
this section shall not apply to trucks, trailers or semi-trailers so parked
while actually engaged in loading or unloading.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation owning,
operating or having control of any truck, truck tractor, trailer, semitrailer,
pole trailer, bus or motor vehicle which has refrigeration capability or
capacity to park the same on or adjacent to any street, or in any city owned
and/or city controlled parking lot within the corporate limits with the
refrigeration units operating, except that this section shall not apply to
trucks, trailers or semi-trailers so parked while actually engaged in loading
or unloading. (Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
15-620. Penalties and remedies for violation of preceding sections.
   (1)   The Cookeville Police Department shall be authorized to issue
citations and/or cause the towing of vehicles in violation of the preceding §§
15-601 through
15-619.
   (2)   Any person issued a citation for violating the preceding §§
15-601 through
15-619 shall be fined as follows:
      (a)   $10.00 for first offense overtime parking violation;
      (b)   $10.00 for first offense prohibited/improper parking violation;
      (c)   $25.00 for first offense fire lane/fire hydrant parking violation;
      (d)   $50.00 for handicapped parking violation;
      (e)   $50.00 per offense for each additional offense per calendar year.
   (3)   A letter will be mailed to the vehicle registrant if a citation for
any of the parking restrictions listed in this Chapter has not been satisfied
by the vehicle registrant, either by payment before, or appearance in city
court on the court date indicated on the citation.
   (4)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the citation or warrant was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation or
warrant was, at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle,
shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered
owner of such vehicle is responsible for such violation, whether such violation
is committed by the registered owner's bailee, lessee or customer.
   (5)   The owner or operator of a vehicle towed for the violation of the
preceding §§
15-601 through
15-619 shall be responsible for the payment of any towing and/or storage
charges.
   (6)   In all city owned and/or city controlled parking lots and where
vehicles may be towed, the city shall erect signage giving the contact
information so a owner or operator of a towed vehicle may claim the vehicle.
   (7)   In addition to all other available remedies, any officer is authorized
to have a vehicle towed, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle, if present, to move the vehicle to a position off the street if the
officer believes that public safety requires that the vehicle be moved. (Ord.
#O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
CHAPTER 7
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
   
15-701.   Issuance of traffic citations.
   
15-702.   Failure to obey citation.
   
15-703.   Citations for illegal parking.
   
15-704.   Impoundment of vehicles.
   
15-705.   Failure to comply with parking citations.
   
15-706.   Unlawful to park junk vehicles in public view.
   
15-707.   Unlawful to display red light on the front of motor vehicle.
   
15-708.   Automated enforcement--intersections.
   
15-709.   Automated enforcement--speeding.
15-701. Issuance of traffic citations. 1
   When a police officer halts a traffic violator other than for the purpose of
giving a warning, and does not take such person into custody under arrest, he
shall take the name, address, and operator's license number of said person, the
license number of the motor vehicle involved, and such other pertinent
information as may be necessary, and shall issue to him a written traffic
citation containing a notice to answer to the charge against him in the city
court at a specified time. The officer, upon receiving the written promise of
the alleged violator to answer as specified in the citation, shall release such
person from custody.
(1970 Code, § 9-602)
1   State law reference
   Tennessee Code Annotated, § 7-63-101, et seq.
15-702. Failure to obey citation.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate his or her written promise to
appear in court after giving said promise to an officer upon the issuance of a
traffic citation, unless he or she elects to forfeit the prescribed cash bond
or deposit accepted by the city or unless the offense is otherwise dismissed by
the court.
(1970 Code, § 9-603)
15-703. Citations for illegal parking.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this code, the officer finding
such vehicle shall take its license number and may take any other information
displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously
affix to such vehicle a citation for the driver and/or owner to answer for the
charge during the hours and at a place specified in the citation.
(1970 Code, § 9-604, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-704. Impoundment of vehicles.
   Members of the police department are hereby authorized, when reasonably
necessary for the security of the vehicle or to prevent obstruction of traffic,
to remove from the streets and impound any vehicle whose operator is arrested
or any unattended vehicle which is parked, so as to constitute an obstruction
or hazard to normal traffic. Any impounded vehicle shall be stored until the
owner or other person entitled thereto claims it, gives satisfactory evidence
of ownership or right to possession, and pays all applicable fees and costs or
until it is otherwise lawfully disposed of. The fee for impounding a vehicle
shall be equal to the fee charged by the schedule wrecker service who tows the
vehicle. The storage cost of the impounded vehicle shall be equal to the
storage fee charged by the schedule wrecker service. (1970 Code, § 9-601, as
amended by Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-705. Failure to comply with parking citations.
   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing, or parking under
the traffic laws or ordinances does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle at the time and place specified by
officer issuing such citation the city court clerk shall send to the owner of
the motor vehicle to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter reminding
him or her of his or her prima facie responsibility for the violation and
warning him that in the event the parking fine is not paid and the new court
date set forth in the letter is disregarded a warrant will be secured.
(1970 Code, § 9-605, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002, modified)
15-706. Unlawful to park junk vehicles in public view.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle that is junked, burned or otherwise in
an obvious state of disrepair to be parked or stored on any public or private
property within the corporate limits of the city that is in view of the public
at large for longer than ten (10) days unless such property has been designated
as a junk or salvage yard by the city. Any police officer who encounters such a
vehicle shall conspicuously post a notice on said vehicle stating the date and
time of the encounter and the owner's obligation to remove said vehicle within
ten (10) day. Said vehicle may be towed and impounded at the owner's expense if
it is not removed to an appropriate place within ten (10) days from the date of
the notice.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-707. Unlawful to display red light on the front of a motor vehicle.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on a public
roadway within the city while such vehicle is equipped with any light that
emits a red glow or beam toward the front portion of said motor vehicle unless
such a light is a flashing light that is part of an authorized vehicle's
emergency equipment.
(Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
15-708. Automated enforcement--intersections.
   (1)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
      (a)   Citations and warning notices shall include:
         (i)   The name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle;
         (ii)   The registration plate number of the motor vehicle involved in
the violation;
         (iii)   The violation charged;
         (iv)   The location of the violation;
         (v)   The date and time of the violation;
         (vi)   A copy of the recorded image;
         (vii)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which
the civil penalty should be paid, or by which a hearing must be requested,
pursuant to subsection (3)(b)(ii) of this section, which dates shall be not
less than thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the citation;
         (viii)   A signed statement by a member of the police department that,
based on inspection of recorded images, the motor vehicle was being operated in
violation of subsection (3) of this section; and
         (ix)   Information advising the person alleged to be liable under this
section:
            (A)   Of the manner and time in which liability alleged in the
citation occurred and that the citation may be contested in the city court; and
            (B)   Warning that failure to contest in the manner and time
provided shall be deemed an admission of liability and that a default judgment
may be entered thereon.
      (b)   "In operation" means operating in good working condition.
      (c)   "Recorded images" means images recorded by a traffic control
photographic system on:
         (i)   On:
            (A)   A photograph;
            (B)   A microphotograph;
            (C)   An electronic image;
            (D)   Videotape; or
            (E)   Any other medium; and
         (ii)   At least one (1) image or portion of tape, clearly identifying
the registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
      (d)   "System location" is the approach to an intersection toward which a
photographic, video or electronic camera is directed and is in operation.
      (e)   "Traffic control photographic system" is an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic control sign, signal
or device, and to automatically produce photographs, video or digital images of
each vehicle violating a standard traffic control sign, signal or device.
      (f)   "Vehicle owner" is the person identified by the state department of
safety as the registered owner of a vehicle.
   (2)   General.
      (a)   The city police department or an agent of the department shall
administer the traffic control photographic systems and shall maintain a list
of system locations where traffic control photographic systems are installed.
      (b)   The city shall adopt procedures for the issuance of citations and
warnings under this section. A citation or warning alleging that the violation
of subsection (3) of this section occurred, sworn to or affirmed by officials
or agents of the city, based on inspection of recorded images produced by a
traffic control photographic system, shall be evidence of the facts contained
therein and shall be admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation under
this section. The citation or warning shall be forwarded by first-class mail to
the owner's address as given on the motor vehicle registration. Personal
service of process on the owner shall not be required.
      (c)   Signs to indicate the use of traffic control photographic systems
shall be clearly posted.
   (3)   Offense. (a) It shall be unlawful for a vehicle to cross the stop line
at a system location per Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-110 (as adopted in
the Cookeville Municipal Code), or for a vehicle to violate any other traffic
regulation specified in
title 15 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic) of the Cookeville Municipal Code.
      (b)   A person who receives a citation under subsection (3) may:
         (i)   Pay the civil penalty, in accordance with instructions on the
citation, directly to the city court; or
         (ii)   Elect to contest the citation for the alleged violation.
      (c)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation under
this section, except when he can provide evidence that the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of another person at the time of the violation, as
described in subsection (3)(d) of this section, in which circumstance the
person who had the care, custody or control of the vehicle at the time of the
violation shall be responsible.
      (d)   Notwithstanding subsection (3)(c) of this section, the owner of the
vehicle shall not be responsible for the violation if, on the designated court
date, he furnishes the city court:
         (i)   An affidavit by him stating the name and address of the person
or entity who leased, rented, or otherwise had the care, custody or control of
the vehicle at the time of the violation; or
         (ii)   An affidavit by him stating that, at the time of the violation,
the vehicle involved or its license plate was stolen, along with a certified
copy of the police report reflecting such theft, or that the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of some person who did not have his permission to use
the vehicle, and stating the name and address of said person. An affidavit
alleging theft of a motor vehicle or its plates must be provided by the
registered owner of a vehicle receiving a notice of violation within thirty
(30) days of the mailing date of the notice of violation.
   If an individual identified pursuant to subsection (3)(d)(i) placed the
vehicle in the care, custody or control of another at the time of the
violation, said individual may likewise submit an affidavit pursuant to
subsection (3)(d)(i). If an individual identified pursuant to subsection (3)(d)
(i) demonstrates to the city court that he or she did not lease or rent the
vehicle, or otherwise was not given care, custody or control of the vehicle,
the owner of the vehicle shall remain responsible for the violation, and a
citation as set forth above shall be reissued to the owner of the vehicle.
   (4)   Penalty.
      (a)   Any violation of subsection (3) of this section shall subject the
responsible person or entity to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00),
without assessment of court costs or fees. Failure to pay the civil penalty or
appear in court to contest the citation on the designated date shall subject
the responsible person or entity to assessment of court costs and fees as set
forth in this chapter and chapter 8 of the code of ordinances, except that no
court costs or fees shall be assessed unless a second notice is sent by first
class mail to the registered owner of the motor vehicle and such second notice
provides for an additional thirty (30) days for payment of such citation. The
city may establish procedures for the trial of civil violators, and the
collection of civil penalties and may enforce the penalties by a civil action
in the nature of a debt.
      (b)   A violation for which a civil penalty is imposed under this section
shall not be considered a moving violation and may not be recorded by the
police department or the state department of safety on the driving record of
the owner or driver of the vehicle and may not be considered in the provision
of motor vehicle insurance coverage.
   (5)   Exemptions. The owners of the following vehicles are exempt from
receiving a notice of violation:
      (a)   Emergency vehicles with active emergency lights;
      (b)   Vehicles moving through the intersection to avoid or clear the way
for a marked emergency vehicle;
      (c)   Vehicles under police escort; and
      (d)   Vehicles in a funeral procession
(as added by Ord. #09-05-07, June 2009)
15-709. Automated enforcement--speeding.
   (1)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      (a)   "Citations and warning notices" shall include:
         (i)   The name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle;
         (ii)   The registration plate number of the motor vehicle involved in
the violation;
         (iii)   The violation charged;
         (iv)   The location of the violation;
         (v)   The date and time of the violation;
         (vi)   A copy of the recorded image;
         (vii)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which
the civil penalty should be paid, or by which a hearing must be requested,
pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(b) of this section, which dates shall be not less
than thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of the citation;
         (viii)   A signed statement by a member of the police department that,
based on inspection of recorded images, the motor vehicle was being operated in
violation of subsection (c) of this section; and
         (ix)   Information advising the person alleged to be liable under this
section:
            (A)   Of the manner and time in which liability alleged in the
citation occurred and that the citation may be contested in the city court; and
            (B)   Warning that failure to contest in the manner and time
provided shall be deemed an admission of liability and that a default judgment
may be entered thereon.
      (b)   "In operation" means operating in good working condition.
      (c)   "Recorded images" means images recorded by a traffic control
photographic system on:
         (i)   On:
            (A)   A photograph;
            (B)   A microphotograph;
            (C)   An electronic image;
            (D)   Videotape; or
            (E)   Any other medium; and
         (ii)   At least one (1) image or portion of tape, clearly identifying
the registration plate number of the motor vehicle.
      (d)   "System location" is any public street within the City of
Cookeville on which a photographic, video or electronic camera is in operation.
      (e)   "Traffic control photographic system" is an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
located on any public street within the City of Cookeville to automatically
produce photographs, video or digital images of each vehicle violating an
established or posted speed limit for any such system location(s).
      (f)   "Vehicle owner" is the person identified by the state department of
safety as the registered owner of a vehicle.
   (2)   General.
      (a)   The city police department or an agent of the department shall
administer the traffic control photographic systems.
      (b)   The city shall adopt procedures for the issuance of citations and
warnings under this section. A citation or warning alleging that the violation
of subsection (3) of this section occurred, sworn to or affirmed by officials
or agents of the city, based on inspection of recorded images produced by a
traffic control photographic system, shall be evidence of the facts contained
therein and shall be admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation under
this section. The citation or warning shall be forwarded by first-class mail to
the owner's address as given on the motor vehicle registration. Personal
service of process on the owner shall not be required.
   (3)   Offense.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful for a vehicle to travel through a system
location within the City of Cookeville at a rate of speed in excess of that
rate of speed established or posted for any such system location(s).
      (b)   A person who receives a citation under subsection (3) may:
         (i)   Pay the civil penalty, in accordance with instructions on the
citation, directly to the city court; or
         (ii)   Elect to contest the citation for the alleged violation.
      (c)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation under
this section, except when he can provide evidence that the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of another person at the time of the violation, as
described in subsection (3)(d) of this section, in which circumstance the
person who had the care, custody or control of the vehicle at the time of the
violation shall be responsible.
      (d)   Notwithstanding subsection (3)(c) of this section, the owner of the
vehicle shall not be responsible for the violation if, on the designated court
date, he furnishes the city court:
         (i)   An affidavit by him stating the name and address of the person
or entity who leased, rented, or otherwise had the care, custody or control of
the vehicle at the time of the violation; or
         (ii)   An affidavit by him stating that, at the time of the violation,
the vehicle involved or its license plate was stolen, along with a certified
copy of the police report reflecting such theft, or that the vehicle was in the
care, custody or control of some person who did not have his permission to use
the vehicle, and stating the name and address of said person. An affidavit
alleging theft of a motor vehicle or its plates must be provided by the
registered owner of a vehicle receiving a notice of violation within thirty
(30) days of the mailing date of the notice of violation.
   If an individual identified pursuant to subsection (3)(d)(i) placed the
vehicle in the care, custody or control of another at the time of the
violation, said individual may likewise submit an affidavit pursuant to
subsection (3)(d)(i). If an individual identified pursuant to subsection (3)(d)
(i) demonstrates to the city court that he or she did not lease or rent the
vehicle, or otherwise was not given care, custody or control of the vehicle,
the owner of the vehicle shall remain responsible for the violation, and a
citation as set forth above shall be reissued to the owner of the vehicle.
   (4)   Penalty.
      (a)   Any violation of subsection (3) of this section shall subject the
responsible person or entity to a civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00),
without assessment of court costs or fees. Failure to pay the civil penalty or
appear in court to contest the citation on the designated date shall subject
the responsible person or entity to assessment of court costs and fees as set
forth in this chapter and chapter 8 of the code of ordinances, except that no
court costs or fees shall be assessed unless a second notice is sent by first
class mail to the registered owner of the motor vehicle and such second notice
provides for an additional thirty (30) days for payment of such citation. The
city may establish procedures for the trial of civil violators, and the
collection of civil penalties and may enforce the penalties by a civil action
in the nature of a debt.
      (b)   A violation for which a civil penalty is imposed under this section
shall not be considered a moving violation and may not be recorded by the
police department or the state department of safety on the driving record of
the owner or driver of the vehicle and may not be considered in the provision
of motor vehicle insurance coverage.
   (5)   Exemptions. The owners of the following vehicles are exempt from
receiving a notice of violation:
      (a)   Emergency vehicles with active emergency lights;
      (b)   Vehicles traveling on any public street within the City of
Cookeville avoiding or clearing the way for a marked emergency vehicle;
      (c)   Vehicles under police escort
(as added by Ord. #09-05-07, June 2009)
CHAPTER 8
ON-CALL WRECKER SERVICE
SECTION
   
15-801.   Purpose.
   
15-802.   Authorization.
   
15-803.   Definitions.
   
15-804.   Application for on-call wrecker service.
   
15-805.   Application/renewal fee.
   
15-806.   Liability insurance required.
   
15-807.   Inspection of vehicles.
   
15-808.   License and permit required for drivers.
   
15-809.   Qualifications for driver’s permit.
   
15-810.   Rate Schedule for nonconsenting towing at the direction of a law
enforcement officer.
   
15-811.   Wrecker driver—Duty to remove accident debris.
   
15-812.   Accident reports.
   
15-813.   Towing place designated.
   
15-814.   Storage facility requirements.
15-801. Purpose.
The purpose of this Chapter is to establish provisions for On-Call Wrecker
Service agencies that would provide towing services at the request of officers
of the Cookeville Police Department to tow vehicles from areas on or adjacent
to city streets and public ways, including any publicly maintained thoroughfare
or right-of-way designed or intended for vehicular traffic (hereafter referred
to as street), or in city owned and/or city controlled parking lots. (Ord.
#O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-802. Authorization.
The establishment of appropriate rates charged by and fees applicable to
approved on-call wrecker services shall be authorized by the City Manager
according to this Chapter. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-803. Definitions.
   (1)   “A Class A wrecker” is a towing vehicle designed to tow passenger
cars, pick-up trucks, small trailers, etc. This classification also includes
"wheel lift," "car carrier," or "rollback" type vehicle transporters. The
towing vehicle chassis shall have a minimum manufacturer's capacity of 14,000
lbs. or greater gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR).
   (2)   “A Class B wrecker” is a towing vehicle designed to tow medium size
trucks, trailers etc. The towing chassis shall have a minimum manufacturer's
capacity of 26,000 lbs. or greater GVWR.
   (3)   “A Class C wrecker” is a towing vehicle designed to tow large trucks,
road tractors, and trailers. The towing vehicle chassis shall have a minimum
manufacturer's capacity of 35,000 lbs. or greater GVWR.
   (4)   “An on-call wrecker service” is a towing business listed on a rotating
schedule after voluntarily complying with the standards and requirements
herein. An on-call wrecker service is available to provide towing services at
the request of an officer of the Cookeville Police Department. These requests
may involve services rendered at arrest scenes, crash scenes, for roadway
obstructions, and for the actions specified in
Title 15, Chapter 6, Parking and
Title 15, Chapter 7, Enforcement.
   (5)   “Garage keeper's liability” is insurance that protects a garage keeper
against liability for damage to vehicles in his/her care, custody, or control.
   (6)   “On hook coverage” is insurance that will normally pay to repair or
replace a vehicle that the towing company did not own if it is damaged by a
collision, fire, theft, explosion, or vandalism while it is being towed or
hauled.
   (7)   “Vehicle liability” is insurance that pays for damages due to bodily
injury and property damage to others for which the towing company is
responsible. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-804. Application for on-call wrecker service.
   (1)   Before any person, firm, or corporation may conduct an on-call wrecker
service in the City of Cookeville, he or she shall file with the Cookeville
Police Department an application for a permit. Applicants and all partners
shall also meet the driver's permit qualifications outlined in §
15-809. The application shall include the name of the on-call wrecker service,
address and phone number; applicant name, home address and phone number;
whether the applicant is an individual, firm, or corporation, and if a firm,
the name, home address and phone number of each member thereof. The applicant
will also be responsible for any other fees that are associated with the
application or background investigation process. The application shall also
include the following: the make, model, vehicle identification number (VIN),
and license number of all vehicles proposed to be used by the on-call wrecker
service; the color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles; experience of the applicant in the transportation or towing of
vehicles; certification of the mechanical reliability and cleanliness of the
vehicles by a Cookeville Police Department approved inspector; certification of
liability insurance; and such other pertinent information as may be required on
said form, which application shall be sworn to by the applicant and notarized.
   (2)   All permits for conducting an on-call wrecker service shall be issued
and signed by a representative designated by the Cookeville Police Department.
No on-call wrecker service permits shall be issued for a longer period than one
(1) calendar year. The designated representative of the Cookeville Police
Department may issue a permit for a shorter or probationary period if the
designee deemed it proper. All on-call wrecker service permits are subject to
cancellation at any time by the Cookeville Police Department. Permits issued
under this section are nontransferable.
   (3)   All permits heretofore issued shall expire annually. The applicant
must file a renewal application and ensure that all fees have been paid and all
vehicles have been inspected consistent with the administrative regulations of
the Cookeville Police Department so that the application for renewal can be
acted upon by the Cookeville Police Department. Failure to comply with the
provisions of this section shall result in immediate suspension of all permits
held by the on-call wrecker service owner.
   (4)   No permits, initial or renewal, for an on-call wrecker service shall
be issued unless a current business license has been obtained from the City of
Cookeville. Any on-call wrecker service that conducts regular business within
the Cookeville city limits must have their office located within the Cookeville
city limits in an area zoned for such a business.
   (5)   Every on-call wrecker service permitted under this chapter shall post
the permit in such a place in each wrecker as to be in full view while such
wrecker is in operation.
   (6)   The Cookeville Police Department shall have authority to issue
administrative regulations that are not in conflict with this chapter governing
the use and operation of wreckers. Provided, however, that any owner of an on-
call wrecker service, as of the effective date of this chapter, that does not
meet the requirement of §
15-809 may continue to be an owner unless (1) the owner is convicted of a
felony; pleads guilty to a felony; or pleads "no contest" (nolo contendere) to
a felony; or (2) ceases to be an owner. In the event of (1) the owner
immediately forfeits the permit. In the event of (2) the owner must meet all
criteria set forth in §
15-809 to obtain a new permit to be an owner. Nothing in this paragraph may be
construed to permit an owner under this exception to be a driver. (Ord. #O17-
10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-805. Application/renewal fee.
   At the time of issuance of a permit to operate an on-call wrecker service,
the holder of the permit shall pay to the Cookeville Police Department a
nonrefundable fee in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25). This fee shall
also apply for each annual renewal application. If at any time the holder of a
towing permit shall desire to use any additional vehicles under the permit, he
or she may do so only after he or she has made application to the Cookeville
Police Department for a permit to use such additional vehicles and he or she
shall furnish to the Cookeville Police Department the same information
regarding such additional vehicles as is required in §
15-804 regarding those vehicles covered by the original permit. (Ord. #O17-10-
19, Dec. 2017)
15-806. Liability insurance required.
   Each on-call wrecker service assumes the liability for personal injury or
property damage resulting from the towing company's employee's intentional or
negligent act(s) beginning at the time contact is made with any vehicle to be
towed. Each towing company assumes full liability for all items of value in the
towed vehicle. Each towing company shall maintain the following insurance
policies for the minimum amounts set forth in this section. Each policy shall
be in the name of the towing company or the towing company's owner and shall
include coverage for towing and storage. The policy(s) shall be valid for at
least six (6) months. However, no lapse in insurance coverage may occur.
   Liability coverage must be equal to (or greater than) the minimum amounts
below.
 
Wrecker Vehicle Liability Garage Keeper’s LiabilitOn Hook Coverage
Class A $300,000.00       $75,000.00                $75,000.00
Class B $500,00.00        $150,000.00               $150,000.00
Class C $750,000.00       $200,000.00               $200,00.00
 
   Additional direction can be found in the administrative regulations
promulgated by the Cookeville Police Department. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-807. Inspection of vehicles.
   (1)   All wreckers shall be inspected at least annually to ensure that they
comply with the requirements of the administrative regulations of the
Cookeville Police Department. The designee of the chief of police will schedule
the date and time the inspections shall be made.
   (2)   A police officer is authorized by this chapter to stop a wrecker
operating on the streets of the City of Cookeville when the mechanical
appearance of the vehicle so warrants or to inspect said vehicle for compliance
with the administrative regulations of the Cookeville Police Department. If
said officer finds the vehicle to be in noncompliance with this chapter, he or
she shall notify the on duty shift commander. The shift commander may place the
wrecker out of service until repairs have been made and the vehicle has been
re-inspected as provided in §
15-807. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-808. License and permit required for drivers.
   (1)   In addition to a wrecker driver's permits issued by the Cookeville
Police Department, all operators of a Class A or B wrecker must be in
possession of a Class D Driver License with an "F" endorsement or a Commercial
Driver License issued by the State of Tennessee. Additionally, any person
driving a Class C wrecker must be in possession of a Commercial Driver License
issued by the State of Tennessee.
   (2)   All operators of an approved on-call wrecker service must be able to
present a valid wrecker driver's permit upon request while operating a wrecker
at the request of a police officer.
   (3)   No driver's permit shall be issued for a longer period than one (1)
calendar year. Said driver's permit will be renewable with the on-call wrecker
service date as provided in §
15-804. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-809. Qualifications for driver's permit.
   No person shall be issued a wrecker driver's permit or an on-call wrecker
service permit unless he or she passes a background investigation. Applicants
must be of good character and not have been convicted of, pled guilty to, or
entered a plea of "no contest" to any felony offense or any misdemeanors that
involve crimes of violence, theft, fraud, sale or distribution of drugs, bodily
injury, or other crimes of dishonesty. A written application must be submitted
to the Cookeville Police Department on forms provided for that purpose. The
application shall contain such pertinent information as deemed necessary by the
Cookeville Police Department. If the application is deemed to be incomplete or
contains incorrect or false information, it shall be summarily denied.
Additional direction can be found in the administrative regulations promulgated
by the Cookeville Police Department. (Ord. #O17- 10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-810. Rate Schedule for Nonconsenting Towing at the Direction of a Law
Enforcement Officer.
   (1)   The following base rates and fees of each schedule class wrecker will
apply to any vehicle stored on the City’s impound lot other than those stored
for evidence purposes:
 
Wrecker Maximum Rate per Town Storage Rate per Day
Class A $130.00               $30.00
Class B $230.00               $30.00
Class C $440.00               $50.00
 
   After the first two (2) hours on the lot, any part of a day shall count as a
whole day of storage. The preceding fees will be evaluated as needed.
   (2)   The following additional fees may apply in the situations described
below:
   Labor charges for the operation of the non-consent on-call wreckers shall
not start until after the first hour for Class A and B wreckers. Such charges
will not start until after the first two (2) hours for a Class C wrecker.
Hourly rates can only be charged for non-consent on-call wreckers in use on
scene after being requested by a law enforcement officer and arriving on scene.
The additional hourly rate for Class A wreckers may not exceed fifty dollars
($50) per hour. The additional hourly rate for Class B wreckers may not exceed
one hundred dollars ($100) per hour. The additional hourly rate for Class C
wreckers may not exceed one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) per hour.
   Mileage charges may only be incurred for out of county miles and only when
towing at a police officer's request. This rate is not to exceed three dollars
and fifty cents ($3.50) per mile.
   In cases where a police officer requests an on-call wrecker service to
respond to an unattended vehicle, the owner or operator of the vehicle shall
not be charged any fee if the owner or operator arrives and removes the vehicle
to be towed from the premises before it is connected to the towing vehicle. If
the owner or operator of the vehicle is present after the towing vehicle has
been connected to the vehicle to be towed, the vehicle shall not be towed but
the owner or operator of the vehicle shall be liable for a reasonable fee, in
lieu of towing, provided the owner or operator of the vehicle forthwith removes
the vehicle from the premises. A vehicle shall be deemed connected if every
procedure required securing the vehicle to the wrecker or wrecker equipment so
that the vehicle may be safely towed has been completed at the time the owner
or operator arrives, including the attachment of any safety chains. The drop
fee for Class A or B wreckers may not exceed fifty dollars ($50). The drop fee
for a Class C wrecker may not exceed one hundred forty dollars ($140).
   An on-call wrecker service may charge an after-hours retrieval fee not to
exceed fifty dollars ($50) if the owner or operator of a towed vehicle needs to
access property in their vehicle or recover their vehicle after the vehicle has
been towed to the lot of an on-call wrecker service after normal business
hours. Normal business hours will be defined as being Monday through Friday
from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM. If the owner or operator of a vehicle being towed is
on scene when an on-call wrecker service responds, the operator of the wrecker
will be expected to give the owner or operator of the towed vehicle an
opportunity to retrieve any needed property in the vehicle at the scene.
Likewise, the wrecker operator will be responsible for notifying the owner or
operator of the towed vehicle that additional fees may apply if the towed
vehicle must be accessed or released after normal business hours. (Ord. #O17-
10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-811. Wrecker driver—Duty to remove accident debris.
   Whenever any driver of a wrecker removes a vehicle from the scene of an
accident on the streets, alleys, roads, highways, or thoroughfares within the
City of Cookeville, it shall be the duty of such driver and driver assistant to
simultaneously remove and carry away from the streets, alleys, roads, highways,
and thoroughfares at or about the scene of each accident or collision, all
glass, metal, and debris which may have been cast upon the streets, alleys,
roads, highways, and thoroughfares as a result of the accident or collision as
required in Tennessee Code Annotated, § 55-8-170. (Ord. #O17- 10-19, December
2017)
15-812. Accident reports.
   All accidents arising from or in connection with the operation of wreckers
which result in the injury or death to any person or damage to any property in
an amount exceeding the sum of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be reported
within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of the occurrence to the department
of Cookeville City police on a form to be furnished by the department. (Ord.
#O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-813. Towing place designated.
   (1)   The driver of the wrecker shall tow, transport, or convey the vehicle
to be towed to any place designated by the owner or operator of such vehicle.
It is unlawful for the owner, driver, or driver assistant of a wrecker or an
agent, employee, or representative of the owner or driver of a wrecker at the
scene of the accident to pressure or otherwise coerce or insist that the owner
or operator of a vehicle sign a work order or agreement at the scene of the
place from which the vehicle is to be transported for any repairs to be made on
such vehicle.
   (2)   The driver of the wrecker shall in all cases, before moving the
vehicle to be towed, ask the owner or operator of such vehicle the place to
which he or she desires the vehicle to be taken and shall transport such
vehicle to such place upon the towing charges being paid or secured. Otherwise,
the vehicle shall be towed or transported to the wrecker service operator's
storage lot.
   (3)   If the vehicle to be towed or transported is involved in an accident
and the owner or operator thereof is unable to give any instructions in his own
behalf, the driver of the wrecker shall tow or transport the wrecked vehicle to
the wrecker service operator's storage lot and it will be presumed and
considered prima facie evidence that the owner or operator of such vehicle
consents to and desires that his vehicle be towed or transported to such place.
   (4)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle is not available and a wrecker
has been summoned by a Cookeville city police officer as a result of a parking
violation, then the vehicle shall be towed or transported to the city police
tow-in lot or to the storage area of the permittee if the police officer so
orders. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
15-814. Storage facility requirements.
Each site to which vehicles are towed shall comply with the following
requirements, and no wrecker operator may take a vehicle to a storage lot which
does not meet these standards.
   (1)   No towing company shall tow a vehicle from private property under
orders of one not the owner of the vehicle to a storage lot which is outside
the geographic limits of the City of Cookeville. All permittees shall
immediately upon connecting the towing vehicle to a vehicle to be towed from
private property under orders of one not the owner of such vehicle, tow the
vehicle directly to a storage lot owned or operated by such permittee located
within the geographic limits of the City of Cookeville. Such towed vehicle
shall not be dropped or left at any other lot or on any other property without
the consent of the owner for any period of time. No towed vehicle shall be
stored on a public street.
   (2)   A storage site shall be fenced or enclosed on all sides in a manner
consistent with the administrative regulations described in the Cookeville
Zoning Code.
   (3)   The operator shall exercise reasonable care to keep towed vehicles and
their contents secure at all times.
   (4)   Personal property in vehicles must be released in accordance with
state law.
   (5)   Whenever a storage lot is closed or has a gate locked, a conspicuous
sign must be posted at the entrance of the storage lot which provides
instructions and a local telephone number for obtaining release of a vehicle
when the lot is not open. The local telephone number posted shall be answered
twenty-four (24) hours a day and someone must be available at the storage lot
to release vehicles within a reasonable time after inquiry is made.
   (6)   Any person operating an on-call wrecker service and maintaining a
storage lot shall maintain personnel with authority to accept payment and to
release any impounded vehicle available seven (7) days a week, twenty-four (24)
hours a day. If such actions occur outside the normal business hours outlined
in §
15-810, personnel must be available within a maximum one (1) hour period to
release or provide access to a vehicle upon the request of the owner.
   (7)   There shall be posted at the entrance to the impound lot nearest the
impound lot office a sign, at least twenty-four (24) inches by twenty-four (24)
inches, painted or printed white with red lettering the towing charge, the
storage rate per day, that no storage fee may be charged if the vehicle has
been held less than two (2) hours and that these conditions are required by
ordinance of the City of Cookeville Government. In addition, such sign shall
list the two (2) forms of payment accepted and state that no additional fee may
be charged for noncash payment. (Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL PARKING DISTRICTS
SECTION
   
15-901.   Purpose.
   
15-902.   Authorization.
   
15-903.   Applicability.
   
15-904.   Definitions.
   
15-905.   Parking privileges for permit holders.
   
15-906.   Designation of residential parking districts; dissolution of
residential parking districts.
   
15-907.   Installation of signs.
   
15-908.   Establishment and enforcement of hours.
   
15-909.   Exemptions.
   
15-910.   Residential parking permit-application and issuance.
   
15-911.   Adjacent residences eligible to participate.
   
15-912.   Resident parking permits.
   
15-913.   Guest parking permit-annual.
   
15-914.   Permit content.
   
15-915.   Replacement parking permits.
   
15-916.   Residential parking permit revocation.
   
15-917.   Parking permit fees.
   
15-918.   Permit parking penalty provisions.
15-901. Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish provisions to authorize residential
parking districts along city streets within the City limits of Cookeville.
(Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-902. Authorization.  
The establishment of residential parking districts within the City of
Cookeville shall be authorized by resolution by the City Council according to
this chapter. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-903. Applicability.  
Residential parking districts shall only apply to block faces of streets zoned
entirely as single family residential districts. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-904. Definitions.  
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
   (1)   “Block face” shall mean all the properties on one (1) side of a given
street existing between two (2) consecutive interesting streets
   (2)   “Dwelling unit” or “residence” shall mean a house, apartment,
condominium, mobile home, or other type of residence, in conformance with the
City's zoning code. Apartments, mobile homes, or other type of residence having
numbers or letters assigned to the street address shall be deemed a dwelling
unit.
   (3)   “Guest” shall mean any persons visiting a dwelling unit located in a
residential district.
   (4)   “Guest permit” shall mean a permit issued by the City of Cookeville to
residents of residential parking districts, limited to use by guests of the
resident within the district to which it is issued.
   (5)   “Motor vehicle” shall include any licensed automobile, truck, motor-
home, recreational vehicle, trailer, motorcycles, or other motor-drive form of
transportation.
   (6)   “Parking permit” or “residential parking permit” shall mean any valid
resident, guest, or daily parking permit issued by the City of Cookeville.
   (7)   “Peak period” shall mean the days of the week and times of the day
where parking reaches maximum occupancies
   (8)   “Qualifying petition” a formal written request that represents at
least two thirds or sixty-six percent (66%) of the households or occupants of a
proposed district.
   (9)   “Resident” shall mean a person who lives in a dwelling unit located in
a residential parking district.
   (10)   “Residential parking district” shall mean a residential area with
streets and boundaries designated by a City Council Resolution. A district
shall contain at least two (2) block faces. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-905. Parking Privileges for Permit Holders.  
Any motor vehicle properly displaying a valid residential parking permit for a
street within a residential parking district may park on that street during the
hours when parking on such street is prohibited to non-permitted vehicles.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all other motor vehicles parked
within a residential parking district shall be subject to the parking
restrictions and penalties as provided in this chapter. A residential parking
permit shall neither guarantee nor reserve to the holder thereof any particular
on-street parking space. A permitted vehicle shall obey all other parking
rules, regulations, and restrictions. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-906. Designation of Residential Parking Districts: Dissolution of
Residential Parking Districts.  
   (1)   Submitting a petition. In order to be considered for a residential
parking district designation, a resident(s) must submit a petition to the
Planning Department containing the signature of an adult member (each dwelling
unit will have one (1) vote) of at least two-thirds or sixty-six percent (66%)
of the dwelling units in the residential area.
      (a)   Petitions shall only be considered for areas which contain at least
two (2) adjacent block faces and must also include the block face(s) on the
opposite side of the street. The boundaries of and the streets within the
proposed permit parking district shall be clearly identified on each page of
the petition.
      (b)   The petition shall also state clearly that, if the district is
approved that participation in the program is mandatory, only those vehicles
with a permit shall be permitted to park in the residential parking district,
except days and times exempted if applicable, and an annual fee will be charged
for a parking permit for each vehicle.
      (c)   The necessary petition can be obtained from the Planning
Department. A cover letter explaining the reasons for the request and a map
showing the boundaries of the proposed parking permit district shall accompany
the petition.
   (2)   Upon receipt of petition. Upon receipt of a valid petition, the
Planning Department shall conduct a parking study of the area identified in the
petition. A residential parking district may be established only if the results
of the study demonstrate that both of the following criteria are satisfied
during peak periods or if other extenuating circumstances are present:
      (a)   At least fifty percent (50%) of the curbside parking spaces in the
proposed parking permit district were utilized during peak periods. For
purposes of this criterion, a legal curbside parking space shall be twenty
three (23) linear feet; and
      (b)   At least twenty-five percent (25%) of the curbside parking spaces
in the proposed parking district were utilized by nonresident parkers. For
purposes of this criterion, the latest available motor vehicle registration
information shall be used.
   (3)   Parking study report and recommendation. Upon completion of the
parking study, if the conditions of subsection (2) of this section are
established, or if other extenuating circumstances are found to be present, the
Planning Department shall make a report and recommendation to the Planning
Commission, based upon the petition and results of the study, on whether or not
to designate the proposed parking district or a portion thereof as a
residential parking district and the hours such restrictions are to be in
effect. The recommendation shall take the following into account:
      (a)   The effect on the safety of the residents of the proposed
residential parking district from intensive parking by nonresidents;
      (b)   The difficulty or inability of residents of the proposed
residential parking district to obtain adequate curbside parking adjacent to or
near their residences because of widespread use of available curbside parking
spaces by nonresident motorists;
      (c)   The likelihood of alleviating, by use of the residential parking
permit program, any problem of non-availability of residential parking spaces.
      (d)   The desire of the residents in the proposed residential parking
permit area for the institution of a residential parking district and the
willingness of those residents to bear the cost incidental to the
administration of the residential parking permit program.
   (4)   Planning Commission public hearing: Upon receipt of the report and
recommendation from the Planning Department, the Planning Commission shall hold
a public hearing on the petition. Upon completion of the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council to adopt or
reject a resolution designating the defined area as a residential parking
district.
   (5)   City Council public hearing. The City Council, on receipt of the
recommendation from the Planning Department and Planning Commission shall hold
a public hearing on the petition. Upon completion of the public hearing, the
City Council may reject the petition Or adopt a resolution designating the
defined area as a residential parking district.
   (6)   Creation of a residential parking district. A residential parking
district shall be created only where the City Council has found that
unrestricted parking creates a situation in which the streets cannot be used
for parking by the residents or their guests and that such unrestricted parking
substantially and unreasonably regularly interferes with the use of 50% of the
available public street parking, or when unrestricted parking is the source of
unreasonable noise, traffic hazards, environmental pollution, or of other
interference with the residential environment and detrimentally affects the
public welfare.
   (7)   Request to add or remove street segments to existing district.
Residents may submit a qualified petition to request adding or removing a block
face to an existing district. These petitions must be submitted to the Planning
Director which will evaluate the request. Residents of the proposed block face
will be given at least thirty a (30) day notice prior to implementation of the
residential parking district.
   (8)   Dissolution of residential parking districts.
      (a)   The designation process set forth in this section including a
petition of at least two-thirds or sixty-six percent (66%) of residents in an
existing residential parking district shall be utilized by the City Council in
determining whether to dissolve a residential parking district.
      (b)   The City Council at the Council's sole discretion, may by
resolution, dissolve any residential parking district authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-907. Installation of Signs.  
The residential parking designation shall not apply to any specific street
within the district until a sign giving adequate notice thereof has been
installed on that street. The Public Works Director will cause the installation
of such signs on the streets of an established residential parking district
indicating that there is no parking between specified hours except for vehicles
which display a valid residential parking permit. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-908. Establishment and Enforcement of Hours. 
Residential parking referenced in this chapter shall be in effect and enforced
on such days of the week and during such time periods as shall be determined by
the City Council and established by resolution, based upon sound traffic
engineering principles, traffic investigation, and studies made, and shall be
posted upon such streets. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
permitting parking during times or hours or by type of vehicle otherwise
prohibited in the City Code or by any provision of state law. (Ord. #O20-09-16,
Oct. 2020)
15-909. Exemptions.
   (1)   Vehicles. The vehicles listed in this section may park in a
residential parking district without a residential parking permit:
      (a)   Vehicles lawfully displaying a special identification license plate
or placard issued to a disabled person;
      (b)   Vehicles of disabled veterans;
      (c)   Vehicles readily identifiable as commercial, delivery, service,
utility, or construction vehicles, while actually engaged in providing
maintenance, repair, or service work to a residence in a program area;
      (d)   Emergency vehicles and other vehicles explicitly exempted from
observing parking regulations pursuant to applicable provisions of state law.
   (2)   Streets or street segments. Those streets or street segment(s) in
front of schools and parks which, as determined by the Planning Department, are
otherwise subject to parking restrictions that differ from those established
for a residential parking district. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-910. Residential Parking Permit-Application and Issuance.
   (1)   Permits issued by City Clerk. Parking permits for residential parking
districts shall be issued by the City Clerk.
   (2)   Information required for residential parking permits. The City shall
make available residential parking permit applications and shall issue permits
upon proper application thereof. Each application and reapplication shall be on
a form provided by the City and shall contain sufficient information to satisfy
the City as to the identity of the applicant including the address and daytime
telephone number of the applicant; the applicant's registered ownership; the
applicant's driver's license number; the license number, make, model, and year
of the vehicle; proof of current vehicle insurance and current registration;
and such other information as deemed necessary by the City. Permits shall be
issued within thirty (30) days of the City's receipt of a complete and
conforming application.
   (3)   Fees to accompany applications. Each application, reapplication, and
renewal application shall be accompanied by nonrefundable fees specified by
resolution of the City Council.
   (4)   Denial of parking permit. Parking permits shall not be issued to any
person who has outstanding parking tickets.
   (5)   Invalid permits. Parking permits become invalid and shall be returned
to the City when the permit holder moves out of a residential parking district.
(Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15.911. Adjacent Residences Eligible to Participate. 
Residences within one (1) block of any established residential parking district
may participate in the residential parking program. Those households located
within one (1) block who wish to participate may obtain any applicable parking
permits approved for the district. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-912. Resident Parking Permits.
    (1)   Quantity of permits issued. The number of resident parking permits to
be issued to each residence for which application is made shall be determined
by the parking conditions within each district and set forth by resolution of
the City Council. Resident parking permits are issued to the resident for the
resident's vehicle. The resident parking permit is not transferable between
vehicles. The resident permit is valid for one year after the date of issuance.
   (2)   Location of permits. Resident parking permits shall be affixed to the
inside bottom left of the driver's side rear windshield. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct.
2020)
15-913. Guest Parking Permit-Annual.  
   (1)   Quantity of permits issued.
The number of annual guests parking permits that will be available to each
residence for which application is made will be established by Resolution based
on findings of the parking study and the characteristics of the area proposed
for a residential parking district. Guest permits will be issued to each
residence for which application is made. Annual guest parking permits are
transferable among the resident's guest vehicles. Guest parking permits are to
be used only by the resident's bona fide transient guests. The guest permit is
valid for one year after the date of issuance.
   (2)   Location of permits. Annual guest parking permits shall be displayed
by hanging the permit from the rear view mirror. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-914. Permit Content.  
Each residential parking permit shall state the street(s) on or residential
parking district in which it is valid, the expiration date, and any additional
information required by the City. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-915. Replacement Parking Permits.  
   (1)   The City may issue a duplicate or replacement resident or guest permit
to any person who has qualified for and who has been issued a parking permit
under the provisions of this chapter. The permit holder must furnish proof that
said permit has been lost or destroyed, including submittal of a police report,
or the vehicle to which the original permit was affixed has been disposed of,
for which new vehicle registration must be provided.
   (2)   The duplicate or replacement parking permit will be reissued at the
standard cost of the original parking permit that it replaces. The cost of the
duplicate or replacement permit will not be pro-rated. Permit holders shall
report to the City a lost, stolen, or missing parking permit within five (5)
days of loss, at which time that permit shall be cancelled and a new permit
issued for a replacement fee. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-916. Residential Parking Permit Revocation. 
   (1)   Authorization to Revoke. The Chief of Police or his/her designee are
authorized to revoke the parking permits of any person on any of the following
grounds:
      (a)   Ineligibility for a permit under the terms of this chapter at the
time of the application;
      (b)   Ceasing to be eligible during the term of the permit;
      (c)   Failing to comply with or violating any condition imposed on the
issuance of a permit; or
      (d)   Failing to comply with or violating any provision of this chapter
or any related law or regulation.
   (2)   Surrender of permit. Upon written notification, the permit holder
shall surrender such permit to the requesting authority. The permit shall be
considered void on the fifth day after the date of notification. Failure to
surrender a revoked parking permit when requested shall constitute a violation
of this chapter. Upon revocation, parking permit fees will not be refunded.
   (3)   Reapplication for permit. Any person whose permit has been revoked
shall not be issued a new permit without reapplication and establishing
eligibility pursuant to this chapter.
   (4)   Appeal of revocation. The action the Chief of Police, or his/her
designee, to revoke a parking permit may be appealed to the City Manager or his
designee.
      (a)   Notice of appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10)
days after the revocation.
      (b)   If such an appeal is timely filed, revocation shall be stayed until
the City Manager or designee's decision is made. Upon failure of the permit
holder to file such notice within the ten (10) day period, the action of the
Chief of Police shall be final and conclusive.
      (c)   The hearing on the appeal shall be conducted pursuant to rules and
procedures established by the City. The City Manager's determination shall be
final. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-917. Parking Permit Fees. 
The parking permit fees for residential parking districts shall be established
by resolution of the City Council. Separate rates may be established for
different permit types and/or permit locations. (Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
15-918. Permit Parking Penalty Provisions. 
It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter to do any of the following,
which violations shall be subject to the civil parking penalties established by
the City Council:
   (1)   Violations. Unless exempted by the provisions of this chapter, no
person shall park a motor vehicle in any residential parking district without
proper permits. A violation of this section shall constitute an infraction
which shall be punishable as defined in Title 15, Chapter 6, Section 15-6201 of
the Cookeville Municipal Code.
   (2)   Representation. No person shall falsely represent himself as eligible
for a parking permit or furnish false information to the City in an application
for a residential parking district permit.
   (3)   Utilization. No permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
thereafter be assigned, transferred, or used for any consideration, monetary or
otherwise.
   (4)   Duplication not allowed. No person shall copy, produce or create a
facsimile of or counterfeit a parking permit, nor shall any person use or
display a facsimile or counterfeit residential parking permit.
   (5)   Dedicated use of permit. No person shall hold a valid parking permit
and allow the use or the display of such permit on a motor vehicle other than
that for which the permit was issued. Such conduct shall constitute an unlawful
act both by the person who holds the valid parking permit and the person who
displays the parking permit.
   (6)   Alterations. No person shall alter or deface a parking permit or
intentionally conceal an expiration date or otherwise attempt to present false
information as true and genuine, on the face of a parking permit which is
displayed in a vehicle parked on a City street.
   (7)   Display. No person shall fail to display or improperly display a
parking permit required and issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (8)   Responsibility of permit holders. It shall be the sole responsibility
of the owner, operator, manager, or driver of a vehicle for which a parking
permit has been issued to become familiar with the provisions for and
limitations on the use of the parking permits and ignorance of these provisions
and limitations shall not be claimed as a defense in any action brought for
illegal or improper use of the parking permit and shall not be sufficient
grounds to void any citation issued for any violation of this chapter. (Ord.
#O20-09-16, Oct. 2020)
TITLE 16
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS, ETC 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Related motor vehicle and traffic regulations:
title 15.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   OFFICIAL STREET MAP.
      
2.   STREET NAMES.
      
3.   STREET ACCEPTANCE AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
      
4.   CLOSURE AND ABANDONMENT OF STREETS OR RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
      
5.   EXCAVATIONS AND CUTS.
      
6.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS FOR STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS.
      
7.   PUBLIC PARKS, GROUNDS AND MUNICIPAL AREAS.
      
8.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES LOCATED WITHIN
THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
      
9.    TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURES
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL STREET MAP
SECTION
   
16-101.   Purpose.
   
16-102.   Procedure for adoption.
   
16-103.   Amendments.
   
16-104.   Identification.
   
16-105.   Location.
16-101. Purpose.
   Those streets for which the City of Cookeville is responsible for
maintenance and repair shall be depicted on an Official Street Map. The
Official Street Map shall also depict the official street names of all city
streets as provided in §
16-204 of this code.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-102. Procedure for adoption.
   The Cookeville Planning Commission shall review, approve and certify the
Official Street Map prior to its adoption by the Council of the City of
Cookeville. The council shall adopt the Official Street Map by ordinance
action.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-103. Amendments.
   The Official Street Map may be amended as necessary by the Council of the
City of Cookeville, provided that such amendments are first reviewed, approved,
and certified by the Cookeville Planning Commission.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-104. Identification.
   The Official Street Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor of
the City of Cookeville, attested by the City Clerk of the City of Cookeville,
under the following words: "This is to certify that this is the Official Street
Map for the City of Cookeville, Tennessee," together with the date of adoption,
or date of amendment.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-105. Location.
   The Official Street Map shall be located in the Office of the City Clerk of
the City of Cookeville and said map shall be the final authority as to the
current status of a street as an Official Street of the City of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 2
STREET NAMES
SECTION
   
16-201.   Planning commission approval required.
   
16-202.   Procedure.
   
16-203.   Appeal of planning commission decision.
   
16-204.   Depiction on Official Street Map.
16-201. Planning commission approval required.
   The Cookeville Planning Commission shall approve the naming or renaming of
streets within the City of Cookeville subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-202. Procedure.
   Proposals for naming or renaming streets may be made either by city
initiative or by receipt of a petition or request from property owners. The
following procedure shall apply for the naming or renaming of streets by the
planning commission.
   (1)   City initiated. The planning commission may consider the naming or
renaming of a street under its own initiative. The planning department shall
provide written notification to all property owners located on a street
proposed for naming or renaming at least fifteen (15) days prior to the meeting
at which the matter is to be considered by the planning commission. Said
written notification shall include the time, date and place of the meeting.
   (2)   Petitions or requests. Requests for street naming or renaming shall be
submitted to the planning department in writing and shall include suggested
street name and reasons for such a request. The property owners making such a
request shall provide proof in the form of a signed petition, or other written
documentation, that they have contacted all other property owners affected by
the proposed change and that said property owners concur with the request. A
nonrefundable fee payable to the City of Cookeville in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be submitted with any request for a street naming or
renaming. This fee shall not be required for the naming of new streets depicted
on final subdivision plats approved by the planning commission.
   (3)   E-911 review required. Prior to the consideration of any street
renaming the planning department shall submit the proposed street name to the
Putnam County E-911 Director for review and comment.
   (4)   Public hearing reqired. A public hearing shall be held by the planning
commission prior to considering the approval of any street naming or renaming.
A public hearing shall not be required for the naming of new streets depicted
on final subdivision plats approved by the planning commission.
   (5)   Effective date. Approval of a street naming or renaming shall become
effective thirty (30) days following approval by the planning commission unless
otherwise specified at the time of approval.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-203. Appeal of planning commission decision.
   The decision of the planning commission for the naming or renaming of a
street may be appealed to the Council for the City of Cookeville. Said appeal
shall be filed with the office of the city manager within thirty (30) days of
approval by the planning commission. The city council may overrule a decision
of the planning commission by a majority vote of the council.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-204. Depiction on official street map.
   Official street names shall be depicted on the Official Street Map of the
City of Cookeville. The adoption or amendment of the Official Street Map by the
Council of the City of Cookeville shall indicate the approval of the council of
any street name or renaming approved by the planning commission.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 3
STREET ACCEPTANCE AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION
   
16-301.   Purpose, authority, and jurisdiction.
   
16-302.   General procedure for street acceptance.
   
16-303.   Standards and procedures for acceptance of a street that is a part of
a new subdivision development.
   
16-304.   Standards and procedures for acceptance of a street that is not a
part of new subdivision development.
   
16-305.   Standards and procedures for acceptance of existing private streets.
   
16-306.   Standards and procedures for acceptance of streets in pre-existing
undeveloped right-of-ways.
   
16-307.   Procedure for adoption of streets by city council.
   
16-308.   Depiction on official street map.
   
16-309.   Fee schedule.
16-301. Purpose, authority, and jurisdiction.
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to define the procedures
and standards that are required before the City of Cookeville, Tennessee will
accept maintenance responsibility for a proposed public street. The procedures
and minimum standards are necessary in order to provide fair and equitable
treatment to all persons seeking to have a street accepted by the city, in
order to insure that all streets accepted are suitable for public use, and to
protect the Cookeville taxpayers from excessive and unnecessary expenditures
for streets and street maintenance.
   (2)   Authority. These street acceptance and construction standards are
adopted under the authority granted by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-2-201,
which entrusts the establishment and general supervision of streets to the
Council of the City of Cookeville; and by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 13-4-307,
which provides that the Council of the City of Cookeville shall receive the
recommendation of the planning commission prior to accepting or constructing
any street.
   (3)   Jurisdiction. These regulations shall govern the acceptance of all
streets for city maintenance within the corporate limits of the City of
Cookeville, Tennessee.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-302. General procedure for street acceptance.
   The procedure for the evaluation and acceptance of a street for city
maintenance involves the Cookeville Planning Department, the Cookeville Public
Works Department, the Cookeville Planning Commission and the Cookeville City
Council.
   There are four (4) primary circumstances that may lead to a request for the
acceptance of a street for city maintenance. These are as follows:
   (1)   Construction of a street that is a part of a new subdivision
development.
   (2)   Construction of a street that is not a part of a new subdivision
development.
   (3)   Existing private street.
   (4)   Construction of a street in a pre-existing undeveloped right-of-way.
   Unless otherwise specified in these regulations all streets proposed for
acceptance by the City of Cookeville shall meet the design and construction
standards specified in §
16-304(4) of these regulations.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-303. Standards and procedures for acceptance of a street that is a part of a
new subdivision development.
   Upon completion of all required improvements, all new streets shown on
approved and recorded subdivision plat proposed for acceptance for city
maintenance shall be submitted by the planning department to the Council of the
City of Cookeville for adoption as provided in §
16-307 of these regulations.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-304. Standards and procedures for acceptance of a street that is not a part
of new subdivision development.
   The following procedure shall apply for the acceptance for city maintenance
of all new private streets that are not a part of a new subdivision
development:
   (1)   Preliminary street plan/survey required. A preliminary street plan/
survey shall be required for all new streets not developed as a part of a new
subdivision. Said plan/survey shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor or
registered engineer and shall provide the following information:
      (a)   Date, approximate north point, and graphic scale;
      (b)   Current tax map and parcel designation according to the official
records of the Putnam County Property Assessor;
      (c)   Location sketch map;
      (d)   Names of adjoining property owners of record;
      (e)   Any portion of the street located within a floodable area;
      (f)   Street right-of-way;
      (g)   Location of street within right-of-way;
      (h)   Width of surfacing;
      (i)   Proposed street name.
   (2)   Procedure for review and approval of preliminary street plan/survey by
planning commission. The procedure for the review and approval of preliminary
street plan/survey by the planning commission shall be in accordance with the
Cookeville Subdivision Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval,
Section D, Procedure for Preliminary Plat Review, as adopted on April 24, 2000,
and including any amendments thereto.
   (3)   Street profile/street construction plan required. If, due to drainage,
slope, soil conditions or other concerns, the Cookeville Public Works
Department determines that a street profile/street construction plan is
necessary, said profile/plan shall be prepared and submitted to the public
works department.
   The street profile/street construction plan shall be prepared by a
registered engineer and shall provide information as determined necessary by
the Cookeville Public Works Department.
   (4)   Design and construction standards. All new streets proposed for public
dedication and acceptance by the City of Cookeville for city maintenance shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with the Cookeville Subdivision
Regulations, Article V, Streets-Design Standards and Specifications, and
Article VI, Streets-Construction Procedures and Specifications, as adopted on
April 24, 2000, and including any amendments thereto.
   (5)   Inspection procedures. Inspections of all phases of required street
improvements shall be completed in accordance with the Cookeville Subdivision
Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval, Section I, Inspection
Procedures, as adopted on April 24, 2000, and including any amendments thereto.
   (6)   Final street plan/survey required. Upon completion of required street
improvements or submittal of a financial guarantee as specified in §
16-304(8) of these regulations, a final street plan/survey shall be prepared by
a licensed surveyor or registered engineer. The final plan/survey shall conform
substantially with the preliminary street plan/survey; and in addition to the
information required on the preliminary plan/survey, shall provide the
following information:
      (a)   Location of completed pavement base and binder surface widths;
      (b)   Location of drainage ditches, tiles, pipes, culverts, etc.;
      (c)   Approved street name;
      (d)   Location of installed street name and traffic control signs;
      (e)   Location and sizes of all utilities within the street right-ofway;
      (f)   Appropriate certificates for approval as specified in §
16-304(8) of these regulations.
   (7)   Procedure for review and approval of final street plan/survey by
planning commission. The procedure for the review and approval of the final
street plan/survey by the planning commission shall be in accordance with the
Cookeville Subdivision Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval,
Section G, Procedure for Final Plat Review, as adopted on April 24, 2000, and
including any amendments thereto.
   (8)   Certifications. The following certificates shall be depicted and
signed on the original final street plan/survey before the Council of the City
of Cookeville will consider a street for acceptance for city maintenance:
      (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication. Certificate showing that
the applicant is the landowner and dedicates the street and right-ofway for
public use.
      (b)   Certificate of accuracy and precision. Certificate by a licensed
land surveyor or registered engineer of the accuracy of the plan/survey.
      (c)   Certificate of street construction. Certificate signed by the
public works department certifying that the street has been constructed to
required standards.
      (d)   Certificate of planning commission approval. Certificate signed by
the planning commission secretary and the director of planning certifying that
the planning commission has approved the plan/survey.
   This certificate shall not be signed unless the three above certifications
have been signed.
   (9)   Financial guarantee of improvements. The planning commission, at the
request of the developer, may accept a financial guarantee in lieu of
completion of certain street improvements. The procedure for the acceptance of
a financial guarantee shall be in accordance with the Cookevile Subdivision
Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval, Section H, Financial
Guarantees in Lieu of Improvements, as adopted on April 24, 2000, and including
any amendments thereto.
   (10)   Warranty of street improvements. Before the Council of the City of
Cookeville will consider for acceptance for city maintenance any new street not
involving subdivision development the developer shall submit a warranty of
street improvements. The procedure for the acceptance of a warranty of
improvements shall be in accordance with the Cookeville Subdivision
Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval, Section J, Warranty of
Improvements, as adopted on April 24, 2000, and including any amendments
thereto.
   (11)   Adoption by city council. The procedure for the adoption by the
Council of the City of Cookeville of a new street not involving subdivision
development shall be as specified in §
16-307 of these requlations.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-305. Standards and procedures for acceptance of existing private streets.
   The following procedure shall be followed for all existing private streets
proposed for acceptance for city maintenance:
   (1)   Written petition for acceptance required. A written petition for the
acceptance of an existing private street shall be submitted to the planning
department.
   (2)   Inspection and approval of public works department required.
   Upon submittal of a petition for the acceptance of an existing private
street, the public works department shall complete an inspection of the street.
The purose of this inspection shall be to determine whether the existing
private street meets the minimum standards for acceptance as specified in §
16-304(4) of these regulations. Should it be determined that an existing
private street does not meet the minimum standards for acceptance, the public
works department shall issue a written report specifying the deficiencies. A
copy of this report shall be provided to the petitioner.
   (3)   Minimum standards for acceptance. The minimum standards for the
acceptance of an existing private street shall be as specified in §
16-304(4) of these regulations. For existing streets not meeting the minimum
standards for acceptance, the standards and procedures specified in §
16-304 of these regulations shall apply.
   (4)   Final street plan/survey required. Upon determination by the public
works department that an existing private street meets the minimum standards
for acceptance a final street plan/survey shall be prepared in accordance with
§
16-304(6) of these regulations.
   (5)   Procedure for review and approval of final street plan/survey by
planning commission. The procedure for the review and approval of the final
street plan/survey by the planning commission shall be in accordance with the
Cookeville Subdivision Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat Approval,
Section G, Procedure for Final Regulations, Article II, Procedure for Plat
Approval, Section G, Procedure for Final Plat Review, as adopted on April 24,
2000, and including any amendments thereto.
   (6)   Certifications. The following certificates shall be depicted and
signed on the original final street plan/survey before the Council of the City
of Cookeville will consider a street for acceptance for city maintenance:
      (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication. Certificate showing that
the applicant is the landowner and dedicates the street and right-ofway for
public use.
      (b)   Certificate of accuracy and precision. Certificate by a licensed
land surveyor or registered engineer of the accuracy of the plan/survey.
      (c)   Certificate of street construction. Certificate signed by the
public works department certifying that the street has been constructed to
required standards.
      (d)   Certificate of planning commission approval. Certificate signed by
the planning commission secretary and the director of planning certifying that
the planning commission has approved the plan/survey.
   This certificate shall not be signed unless the three above certifications
have been signed.
   (7)   Warranty of street improvements. Before the Council of the City of
Cookeville will consider for acceptance for city maintenance an existing
private street the developer shall submit a warranty of street improvements.
   The procedure for the acceptance of a warranty of improvements shall be in
accordance with the Cookeville Subdivision Regulations, Article II, Procedure
for Plat Approval, Section J, Warranty of Improvements, as adopted on April 24,
2000, and including any amendments thereto.
   (8)   Adoption by city council. The procedure for the adoption of an
existing private street by the Council of the City of Cookeville shall be as
specified in §
16-307 of these regulations.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-306. Standards for procedures for acceptance of streets in preexisting
undeveloped right-of-ways.
   The standards and procedures specified in §
16-304 of these regulations shall be met for all streets located in pre-
existing undeveloped right-of-ways proposed for acceptance by the Council of
the City of Cookeville for city maintenance.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-307. Procedure for adoption of streets by city council.
   Upon approval by the Cookeville Planning Commission, the planning department
shall submit to the Council of the City of Cookeville a recommendation for the
acceptance of a street for city maintenance. As a part of the recommendation
the planing department shall specify the circumstances in which the street is
presented. The official acceptance of a street for city maintenance shall be by
ordinance action.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-308. Depiction on official street map.
   All streets adopted by the city council shall be depicted on the Official
Street Map of the City of Cookeville.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-309. Fee schedule.
   The following fee schedule shall apply for all streets, except those
involved in a new subdivision development, proposed for acceptance for city
maintenance:
   Review and recordation fee: $100.00
   Inspection fee: $200.00
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 4
CLOSURE AND ABANDONMENT OF STREETS OR RIGHT-OF-WAYS
SECTION
   
16-401.   Purpose.
   
16-402.   Definitions.
   
16-403.   Initiation of closure or closure and abandonment.
   
16-404.   Requests for closure or closure and abandonment.
   
16-405.   Fees for closure or closure and abandonment.
   
16-406.   Submittals required with abandonment requests.
   
16-407.   Departmental review required.
   
16-408.   Planning commission review required.
   
16-409.   Procedure for council approval.
   
16-410.   Compensation for closure.
   
16-411.   Compensation for abandonment.
16-401. Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for the closure or
closure and abandonment of streets and right-of-ways within the City of
Cookeville.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-402. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
   (1)   "Abandonment." The letting go of, or "vacating" of, public interest in
a property. After a street or right-of-way is abandoned, the public no longer
has a right to use the property for access.
   (2)   "Closure." The preventing of public vehicular use of a street or
right-of-way. When a street or right-of-way is closed without abandonment
public interest in the property is retained.
   (3)   "Right-of-way." The area dedicated for public use as a street or alley
whether developed or undeveloped.
   (4)   "Street." Any public street or alley, including right-of-way, within
the city.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-403. Initiation of closure or closure and abandonment.
   There are two (2) alternatives for the initiation of the closure or closure
and abandonment of a street right-of-way. First, the owners of an interest in
any real property abutting upon any street or right-of-way may request that the
council consider the closure or closure and abandonment of the street or right-
ofway.
   Second, the council may itself initiate the closure or closure and
abandonment of a street or right-of-way.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-404. Requests for closure or closure and abandonment.
   All requests for the closure or closure and abandonment of streets or right-
of-ways shall be submitted in writing to the planning department and shall
include the reasons for such a request. The request shall include proof in the
form of a signed petition, or other written documentation, that all other
property owners affected by the proposed closure or closure and abandonment
have been contacted and concur with the request.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-405. Fees for closure or closure and abandonment.
   Every request for the closure of a street or right-of-way, or any part
thereof, shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in the amount of $50.00.
If the request is also for the abandonment of a street or right-of-way the
nonrefundable fee shall be $100.00. These fees shall be used to defray the
administrative cost incurred in processing the petition and publishing, posting
and mailing notices, plus any consulting costs incurred by the city during the
review process.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-406. Submittals required with abandonment requests.
   Every request for the abandonment of a street or right-of-way, or any part
thereof, shall be accompanied by the following information:
   (1)   Survey prepared by a registered land surveyor indicating the specific
parcels abutting the street or right-of-way proposed for abandonment.
   (2)   Exact legal description of the portion of the street or right-of-way
proposed for abandonment prepared by a registered land surveyor.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-407. Departmental review required.
   Upon receipt of a request for the closure or closure and abandonment of a
street or right-of-way, or any part thereof, the planning department shall
notify all applicable city departments, including fire, police, public works,
water quality control, gas and electric departments. Comments shall be received
from these departments prior to the planning department submitting the request
to the planning commission for review.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-408. Planning commission review required.
   All proposals for the closure or closure and abandonment of a street or
right-of-way, whether city initiated or initiated as a result of a petition,
shall be reviewed by the Cookeville Planning Commission. The following
procedure shall apply for planning commission review of all proposals for the
closure or closure and abandonment of a street or right-of-way:
   (1)   All owners of real property abutting a street or right-of-way proposed
for closure or closure and abandonment shall be notified by the planning
department in writing of the time and place at which the planning commission
will consider the matter.
   (2)   The planning department shall provide a recommendation for or against
closure and/or abandonment and shall provide the comments from the applicable
city departments.
   (3)   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing prior to
considering the matter for action.
   (4)   The recommendation of the planning commission to the council shall be
for the approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval of the closure or
abandonment.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-409. Procedure for council approval.
   The Council of the City of Cookeville shall approve the closure and/or
abandonment of a street right-ofway, or any part thereof, with such conditions
or limitations as the council deems necessary and proper to preserve any public
use or benefit. Council approval may contain a provision retaining or requiring
conveyance of easements for construction, repair and maintenance of existing
and future utilities and services.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-410. Compensation for closure.
   Where a street closure has been initiated by request, the owners of property
signing the petition shall pay to the city, prior to the effective date of the
closure of the street, a sum equal to the cost of physical closure as required
by the department of public works. If the street closure has been initiated by
the city the payment of such sum shall not be required.
   Upon determination by the department of public works of the cost of physical
closure of the street, the city manager or designee shall notify the
representatives of the petitioners of the amount of required compensation. The
payment shall be delivered to the city manager or designee who, upon receipt of
payment, shall transmit it to the city clerk for deposit in the city's general
fund.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-411. Compensation for abandonment.
   The following provisions shall apply for compensation to the city for the
abandonment of a street or rightof- way, or any part thereof:
   (1)   Determination of payment amount. Where an abandonment has been
initiated by request, the owners of the property abutting the area vacated
shall pay to the city, prior to the effective date of the abandonment of the
area, a sum equal to the appraised value of the area vacated plus the full cost
of physical closure and street repairs as required by the department of public
works. Where the abandonment has been initiated by the city the payment of such
sum shall not be required.
   (2)   Conveyance of other property. Conveyance of other property acceptable
to the city may be made in lieu of the required payment, whether required to
mitigate the adverse impacts of the abandonment or otherwise.
   (3)   Appraisals. The city manager or designee shall determine the appraised
value of the area vacated based on an appraisal from a state-certified real
estate appraiser. The petitioner shall pay for the appraisal. If the city
manager or designee is not satisfied with the appraisal, the city manager or
designee may order a second appraisal from a state-certified appraiser. The
city shall pay for the second appraisal. The city manager or designee shall use
the appraisal having the highest value for the area vacated.
   (4)   Payment of compensation or conveyance. After determining the appraisal
for the value of the street or alley to be vacated, the city manager or
designee shall notify the representatives of the petitioners of the amount of
required compensation. The payment shall be delivered to the city manager or
designee who, upon receipt of payment, shall transmit it to the city clerk for
deposit in the city's general fund.
   If the petitioner has been authorized to deliver an instrument dedicating to
the city a parcel or parcels of land in lieu of cash payment, as contemplated
in §
16-411(2), the city manager or designee, at the petitioner's expense, may
either obtain a policy of title insurance insuring title of the property to the
city, or a certificate of title as to the title insurance insuring title of the
property to the city.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 5
EXCAVATIONS AND CUTS
SECTION
   
16-501.   Definitions.
   
16-502.   Excavation permit required.
   
16-503.   Applications.
   
16-504.   Fee.
   
16-505.   Deposit or bond.
   
16-506.   Safety restrictions on excavations.
   
16-507.   Restoration of streets, etc.
   
16-508.   Insurance.
   
16-509.   Supervision.
   
16-510.   Violation and penalty.
16-501. Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply throughout this chapter:
   (1)   "City clerk." The City Clerk of the City of Cookeville.
   (2)   "City manager." The City Manager of the City of Cookeville.
   (3)   "Director." The Director of the Cookeville Public Works Department, or
his designate.
   (4)   "Excavation." Shall include any excavation, cut, tunnel, bore or
similar activity which disturbs or has the potential to disturb any street,
alley or other public property.
   (5)   "Permittee." The person, firm, corporation, association, utility
district, or others specified on a permit for the excavation of a street, alley
or other public property.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-502. Excavation permit required.
   (1)   Unlawful to proceed without permit. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, corporation, association, or others, including utility districts
to make any excavation in or under any street, alley, or public property
without having first obtained an excavation permit as herein required, and
without complying with the provisions of this chapter. It shall also be
unlawful to violate, or vary from the terms of any excavation permit.
   (2)   Emergency circumstances. Any person maintaining pipes, lines, or other
underground facilities in or under the surface of any street, alley or public
property may proceed with an excavation without a permit when emergency
circumstances demand the work to be done immediately and a permit cannot
reasonably and practicably be obtained beforehand. The person shall thereafter
apply for a permit on the first regular business day on which the public works
department is open for business, and the permit shall be retroactive to the
commencement date.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-503. Applications.
   Applications for excavation permits shall be made to the director and shall
include the following:
   (1)   Location of the intended excavation;
   (2)   The size of the intended excavation;
   (3)   The purpose of the intended excavation;
   (4)   The person, firm, corporation, association, or others doing the actual
excavation;
   (5)   The name of the person, firm, corporation, association, or others for
whom the work is being done;
   (6)   Signed agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances
and laws relating to the work to be done;
   (7)   Specific time frames for the completion of the excavation and for the
completion of the restoration.
   Such application shall be rejected or approved by the director within
twenty-four (24) hours of its filing.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-504. Fee.
   The fee for excavation permits shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). Unless
specified by the director, each excavation shall require a separate excavation
permit.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-505. Deposit or bond.
   No excavation permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant has
filed with the city clerk a cash deposit. The amount of the deposit shall be
determined by the director and shall insure that the street, alley or public
property is restored to its original condition. If the restoration, or any
portion thereof, is completed by the city, or at the expense of the city, the
city shall deduct any incurred expense from this deposit. The balance shall be
returned to the applicant without interest after the street, alley or public
property is restored to its original condition. In lieu of a deposit the
applicant may deposit with the city clerk a surety bond in such form and amount
as the director shall deem adequate to cover the costs to the city if the
applicant fails to make proper restoration.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-506. Safety restrictions on excavations.
   Any person, firm, corporation, association, or others making any excavation
shall do so according to the terms and conditions of the application and permit
authorizing the work to be done. Sufficient and proper barricades and lights
shall be maintained to protect persons and property from injury by or because
of the excavation being made. If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a
temporary sidewalk shall be constructed and provided which shall be safe for
travel and convenient for users.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-507. Restoration of streets, etc.
   (1)   Restoration required. Any person, firm, corporation, association, or
others making any excavation in or under any street, alley, or public place in
the City of Cookeville shall restore the street, alley, or public property to
its original condition.
   (2)   Resurfacing by city. If approved by the director, subject to
authorization by the city manager, the city may complete any required
resurfacing. The director shall keep an accurate account of the expense to the
city, and the total cost shall be charged to the permittee.
   (3)   Time limitation for completion of restoration. The director shall
establish a time limitation for the completion of any restoration. This time
limitation shall be specified on the permit. It shall be unlawful to fail to
comply with this time limitation unless permission for an extension of time is
granted by the director.
   (4)   Failure to complete restoration within time limitation. When the
restoration of a street, alley, or public place is not completed within the
time limitation specified in the permit, the director shall give written notice
to the permittee that the city will complete the restoration and charge the
expense of doing the same to the permittee. The director shall keep an accurate
account of the expense to the city for the restoration, and the total cost
shall be charged to the permittee.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-508. Insurance.
   (1)   Certificate of insurance required. In addition to filing a cash
deposit or surety bond as specified in § 16-505, each person applying for an
excavation permit shall file with the city clerk a certificate of insurance.
The certificate of insurance shall indicate that the applicant is insured
against claims for damages for personal injury as well as against claims for
property damage which may arise from or out of the performance of the work,
whether such performance is by the permittee, any subcontractor, or anyone
directly or indirectly employed by the permittee.
   (2)   Coverage. Such insurance shall cover collapse, explosive hazards, and
underground work by equipment on the street, and shall include protection
against liability arising from completed operations.
   (3)   Amount of insurance. The amount of the insurance shall be prescribed
by the city clerk in accordance with the nature of the risk involved; provided,
however, that the liability insurance for bodily injury shall not be less than
$150,000 for each person and $350,000 for each accident, and for property
damages not less than $50,000 for any one (1) accident, and a $75,000
aggregate.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-509. Supervision.
   The director shall from time to time inspect all excavations and tunnels
being made in or under any street, alley, or other public property in the city
and see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   Notice shall be given to the director at least ten (10) hours before the
work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-510. Violation and penalty.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a civil offense and shall be
punishable by a civil penalty under the general penalty provision of this code,
by revocation of permit, or by both penalty and revocation. Each day a
violation shall be allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS FOR STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION
   
16-601.   Obstructing streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   
16-602.   Trees projecting over streets, etc., regulated.
   
16-603.   Trees, etc., obstructing view at intersections prohibited.
   
16-604.   Projecting signs and awnings, etc., restricted.
   
16-605.   Banners and signs across streets and alleys prohibited.
   
16-606.   Gates or doors opening over streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   
16-607.   Littering streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   
16-608.   Obstruction of drainage ditches.
   
16-609.   Abutting occupants to keep sidewalks clean, etc.
   
16-610.   Parades, etc., regulated.
   
16-611.   Operation of trains at crossings regulated.
   
16-612.   Animals and vehicles on sidewalks.
   
16-613.   Fires in streets, etc.
   
16-614.   Violations and penalty.
16-601. Obstructing streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   No person shall use or occupy any portion of any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or right of way for the purpose of storing, selling, or exhibiting
any goods, wares, merchandise, or materials.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-602. Trees projecting over streets, etc., regulated.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant to allow any limbs
of trees on his property to project out over any street or alley at a height of
less than fourteen (14) feet or over any sidewalk at a height of less than
eight (8) feet.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-603. Trees, etc., obstructing view at intersections prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner or occupant to have or maintain
on his property any tree, shrub, sign, or other obstruction which prevents
persons driving vehicles on public streets or alleys from obtaining a clear
view of traffic when approaching an intersection.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-604. Projecting signs and awnings, etc., restricted.
   Signs, awnings, or other structures that project over any street or other
public way shall be erected subject to the requirements of the building and
zoning codes. 1
1   Municipal code reference
   Building code:
title 12, chapter 1.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-605. Banners and signs across streets and alleys restricted.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or have placed any banner or
sign across or above any public street or alley.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-606. Gates or doors opening over streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying property to allow
any gate or door to swing open upon or over any street, alley, or sidewalk
except when required by law.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-607. Littering streets, alleys, or sidewalks prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to litter, place, throw, or track, or
allow to fall on any street, alley, or sidewalk any refuse, glass, tacks, mud,
concrete, rocks, gravel, or other objects or materials which are unsightly or
which obstruct or tend to limit or interfere with the use of such public ways
and places for their intended purposes.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-608. Obstruction of drainage ditches.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or cause the obstruction of
any drainage ditch in any public right of way.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-609. Abutting occupants to keep sidewalks clean, etc.
   The occupants of property abutting on a sidewalk are required to keep the
sidewalk clean. Also, immediately after a snow or sleet, such occupants are
required to remove all accumulated snow and ice from the abutting sidewalk.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-610. Parades, etc., regulated.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, club, organization, or other group to
hold any meeting, parade, demonstration, or exhibition on the public streets
without some responsible representative first securing a permit from the city
clerk.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-611. Operation of trains at crossings regulated.
   No person shall operate any railroad train across any street or alley
without giving a warning of its approach as required by state law. It shall
also be unlawful to stop a railroad train so as to block or obstruct any street
or alley for a period of more than five (5) consecutive minutes.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-612. Animals and vehicles on sidewalks.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, lead, or tie any animal, or
ride, push, pull, or place any vehicle across or upon any sidewalk in such a
manner to unreasonably interfere with or inconvenience pedestrians using the
sidewalk. It shall also be unlawful for any person to knowingly allow any minor
under his control to violate this section.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-613. Fires in streets, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to set or contribute to any fire in any
public street, alley, or sidewalk.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
16-614. Violations and penalty.
   Any violation of this chapter shall constitute a civil offense and shall be
punishable by a civil penalty under the general penalty provision of this code,
by revocation of permit, or by both penalty and revocation. Each day a
violation shall be allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. #002-01-01, Feb. 2002)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC PARKS, GROUNDS AND MUNICIPAL AREAS
SECTION
   
16-701.   Parks are open to the public at large; a Dogwood Pavilion Permit is
required for events at Dogwood Performance Pavilion.
   
16-702.   Operating hours of parks, city-maintained grounds, and public areas.
   
16-703.   Rules and regulations for city parks.
   
16-704.   Authority of park manager.
16-701. Parks are open to the public at large; a Dogwood Pavilion Permit is
required for events at Dogwood Performance Pavilion.
    It is generally accepted that all municipally owned parks and areas are
open and accessible to, and maintained for, the public at large. No municipal
park or facility within a municipal park with the exception of picnic shelters
at Cane Creek Park and the Dogwood Performance Pavilion may be reserved for
exclusive use. Picnic shelters at Cane Creek Park may be reserved on a fee
basis by contacting the Department of Leisure Services. The Performance
Pavilion at Dogwood Park may be made available for exclusive use by individuals
or organizations provided a Dogwood Pavilion Permit is obtained. A Dogwood
Pavilion Permit may be issued for the pavilion on a first come first served
basis only. The City of Cookeville does not provide nor guarantee exclusive use
of the area surrounding the pavilion structure. Prior to being issued a Dogwood
Pavilion Permit, the person or organization must complete a rental agreement
and pay the appropriate fees as outlined in the facility rental agreement. When
the Dogwood Performance Pavilion is not reserved it is available to the public
at large on a first come first served basis. (Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018, as
amended by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan. 2024)
16-702. Operating hours of parks, city-maintained grounds, and public areas.
   It shall be unlawful to loiter in or otherwise use any park or public area
outside the hours established by this section. Opening and closure hours for
all parks, city-maintained grounds and other public areas shall be established
by the city manager and posted at each respective area. A list of hours of
operation shall be located in the city clerk's office in the Cookeville
Municipal Building. Nothing in this section is to be construed as restricting
any official work or activity in said areas during restricted hours by any
department of the City of Cookeville.
(Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018)
16-703. Rules and regulations for city parks.
   The City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services provides parks,
recreation and leisure service facilities for the recreational use of the
public. To prevent abuse and misuse of the privileges and facilities provided,
the following rules and regulations governing public uses are adopted:
   (1)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply throughout this
chapter:
      (a)   "Department." The City of Cookeville Leisure Services Department.
      (b)   "Director." The Director of the Cookeville Leisure Services
Department, or their designee.
      (c)   "City clerk." The City Clerk of the City of Cookeville.
      (d)   "City manager." The City Manager of the City of Cookeville, or
their designee.
      (e)   "City code." A reference to, or a section of, the Cookeville
Municipal Code.
      (f)   "City council." The elected five-member legislative body of the
City of Cookeville.
      (g)   "Park" shall include any park, recreation area, or designated
natural area of the City of Cookeville. The following buildings are excluded
and are not a part of a park: Cane Creek Sportsplex; Cane Creek Recreation
Center; Cane Creek Gymnasium.
      Designated Parks are: Cane Creek Park, Capshaw Park, Cinderella Park,
City Lake Natural Area, Dogwood Park, Ensor Sink Natural Area, Franklin Avenue
Park, Park View Park, Walnut Park, West End Park.
      (h)   “Dogwood Pavilion Permit.” A permit obtained to reserve the
Performance Pavilion at Dogwood Park.
   (2)   Penalties. Any violation of these rules and regulations for the care
and management of the parks, recreation and leisure services facilities of the
City of Cookeville shall constitute a civil offense and shall be punishable by
a civil penalty under the general penalty provision of this code. Each day a
violation shall be allowed to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (3)   Rules and regulations. The following rules and regulations shall apply
for the parks, recreation and leisure services facilities of the City of
Cookeville:
      (a)   Abandonment of any vehicle or other personal property for longer
than 24 hours is prohibited. Any property so left may be impounded. In the
event unattended property interferes with a safe and orderly management of the
park area, it may be impounded immediately.
      (b)   Commercial notices or advertisements shall not be displayed, posted
or distributed on park area lands except in conjunction with a special use
events and then only for the duration of that special use event.
      (c)   No person shall erect any structure, stand, or platform, with the
exception of tents. Tents erected in Dogwood Park shall not be staked to the
ground. Penetrating the surface of the ground in Dogwood Park is prohibited.
      (d)   The fastening of any showcard, poster, or other advertising device
upon any park or park property is prohibited.
      (e)   Any concessionaire which through contractual agreement with the
department operates any concession shall supply and provide any required
permits for such operation.
      (f)   All concession areas staffed and operated by the Cookeville Leisure
Services Department shall be operated according to the "Concession Policy
Manual" of the department.
      (g)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages within park and recreation areas
is prohibited except as specifically allowed under other sections of this city
code.
      (h)   Commercial peddling and commercial soliciting of any kind is
strictly prohibited. However, distribution of expressive materials, including
but not limited to materials or objects with expressive content such as
newspapers, books, bumper stickers, pamphlets, handbills, leaflets, or
writings, or visual art such as paintings, prints, drawings, photography, or
sculpture is permitted. In the event a person or organization wishes to sell
these items or provide these items in exchange for a donation (collectively
hereinafter "vend"), such person or organization may do so upon issuance of a
vending permit as provided in Paragraph (5) of this section. This Section shall
not apply to transactions with authorized concessionaires within the park or
recreation facility. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prohibit
communication of an expressive message orally or by tangible means,
      (i)   Bicycle riders must comply with all applicable traffic regulations.
Bicycles shall not be ridden abreast of one another except on trails designated
as bicycle trails.
      (j)   All U.S. Coast Guard regulations and the requirements of the
Tennessee Boating Safety Act must be observed.
      (k)   Boat launching must be done within those boat launching areas
specifically built and designed for such purposes.
      (l)   Boats shall not be operated in a reckless manner and shall not
exceed five (5) miles per hour on Cane Creek Lake. City Lake is a no-wake zone.
      (m)   All occupants of any boat rented or leased from the City of
Cookeville must have and wear life preservers while in the boat.
      (n)   All occupants of private boats must have flotation devices as
required by the U.S. Coast Guard.
      (o)   No inner-tubes or rubber rafts are allowed on Cane Creek Lake.
      (p)   The following operations are prohibited:
         (i)   An operator knowingly permitting any other person to operate a
water craft in a reckless or negligent manner.
         (ii)   Any privately owned water craft used to carry passengers for
hire, or used in any other commercial operation, except as provided for in a
concessionaire agreement with the City of Cookeville.
         (iii)   No water craft on Cane Creek Lake shall be powered by an
outboard or inboard motor, with the exception of an electric trolling motor.
         (iv)   No water craft shall be allowed on Cane Creek Lake after dusk.
      (q)   The director may close or otherwise restrict the use of any body of
water when necessary to protect life or property, or for any other emergency.
Such restricted area shall be defined, whenever practicable, by signs, markers,
and through public notice.
      (r)   Camping, including tent, trailer, or other types of units, is
prohibited in all parks. No camping or temporary residence shall be permitted.
      (s)   Construction of any building, structure, utility or any other
entity upon, across, over, through, or under any park area, except in
accordance with the provisions of a valid permit and contract is prohibited.
      (t)   Noise.
         (i)   The playing of any radio, television sets, musical instruments,
loud speakers, or other devices for amplification of sound, and noise producing
devices such as electric generating plants or other equipment driven by motors
or engines in such a manner and at such times so as to unreasonably interfere
with use of the park by others is prohibited. This paragraph shall not be
construed to prevent expressive activity, including a performance.
         (ii)   The operation or use of public address systems, whether fixed,
portable, or vehicle mounted is prohibited except when such use or operation is
in connection with special use events, or other public gatherings, including
demonstrations. Such systems may not be used at Dogwood Performance Pavilion or
within the seating area of the pavilion at times when a Dogwood Pavilion Permit
has been issued, except by the holder of that permit as provided by Paragraph
(4) of this section, if such use would unreasonably interfere with the
permitted use of the pavilion by the permit holder. Notwithstanding the
foregoing limitation, such systems may be used adjacent to the pavilion seating
area, including the sidewalks on the west, south, and east sides of the
pavilion seating area and beyond.
         (iii)   Any artificial system, instrument, or device producing noise
permitted in accordance with this Section shall comply with Section
11-202 of this Code as applicable to a commercial use.
      (u)   No person shall disobey the lawful and reasonable order of a park
employee in the discharge of their duties, or disobey or disregard the notices,
prohibitions, instructions, rules or regulations on any park sign.
      (v)   Dogs, cats and other pets are prohibited unless they are crated,
caged, on a leash, or otherwise under physical restrictive control at all
times, except for dogs within the confines of designated dog parks.
      (w)   Dogs, cats, or other pets shall wear vaccination tags, and shall
not be allowed to bark loudly or otherwise disturb the peace and quiet of the
patrons of the park.
      (x)   All dogs, cats and other pets shall comply with the animal control
ordinance of the city code,
Title 10, Chapter 2, §
10-201 through §
10-208.
      (y)   The use or possession of explosives is prohibited as outlined in
The Tennessee State Fire Code, adopted, except for events conducted by the City
of Cookeville.
      (z)   The use or possession of fireworks and firecrackers is prohibited.
      (aa)   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry in any manner
whatever, with the intent to go armed, any razor, dirk, knife, blackjack,
brassknucks, pistol, revolver, rifle, shotgun, air rifle, air gun "BB gun", or
any other dangerous weapon such as hand-thrown spears, bows and arrows or
crossbows, or any other implements designed to discharge missiles in the air or
under the water which are capable of destroying animal life, except as
specifically permitted by, and in strict compliance with, T.C.A. § 13-17-1311.
      (bb)   The creation of any fire in any park outside a specifically
designed picnic grill, fireplace or other similarly designed enclosure
installed by the City of Cookeville is prohibited. Only approved material may
be used in the creation of such fires. No live plant material may be used for
the creation of any fire.
      (cc)   Throwing or dropping a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe heel, match
or other burning material is prohibited.
      (dd)   Fishing within park areas shall be in accordance with the laws and
regulations of the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency.
      (ee)   Digging for bait or for any other purpose is prohibited within all
park areas.
      (ff)   Anyone not removing all trash and debris which accumulate during
fishing shall be guilty of littering.
      (gg)   Any bass fish less than 15 inches in length which is caught during
the normal course of fishing must be immediately returned to the lake.
      (hh)   No person shall take or attempt to take for commercial purposes
any fish, turtles, or other forms of marine life by using any hand or power
equipment, or by trawls, nets, dredges or other equipment normally associated
with commercial fishing.
      (ii)   Flea markets, garage sales, rummage sales, and all other such
sales by a person, persons, or organizations for either private or nonprofit
purposes are prohibited in park and recreation areas.
      (jj)   Horses and other saddle animals are allowed only on trails so
designated as "horse trails".
      (kk)   Opening and closure hours for all parks and recreation areas shall
be established by the city manager upon recommendation of the director and
posted at each site, and shall be on file in the office of the city clerk and
the director. Nothing in this section shall restrict any official work or
activity in said areas during restricted hours by any department of the City of
Cookeville.
      (ll)   Entering or leaving any park or recreation facility except at
established entranceways or exits at established times is prohibited.
      (mm)   The installation and planting of any memorial tree, or any
memorial tree marker, without the permission of the director is prohibited.
      (nn)   Memorial trees may be planted in designated areas as defined
within the memorial tree guidelines at that time. Flush to the ground markers
may be purchased and will be installed by park crews upon approval by the
director.
      (oo)   The Department of Leisure Services shall have the authority to
make additional rules and regulations as is necessary to insure the orderly
growth and protection of the park, recreation and natural resource areas under
its control.
      (pp)   The director shall enforce rules and regulations relating to the
park, recreation, natural resources, historical, and cultural areas of the City
of Cookeville. The city manager shall be the appeal authority in cases where
the decision of the director is in dispute.
      (qq)   The creation or maintenance of a nuisance upon City of Cookeville
properties is prohibited.
      (rr)   Interfering with, encumbering, obstructing or rendering dangerous
any part of a park is prohibited.
      (ss)   The intentional or wanton destruction, defacement, or removal of
any natural or cultural feature or non-renewable natural resource is prohibited
without specific written permission from the director.
      (tt)   The intentional or wanton destruction, injury, defacement, removal
or disturbance in any manner of any public buildings, signs, equipment,
monument, marker, or other structure or of any relic, artifact, historic
structure or of any other similar public property is prohibited. The
intentional or wanton possession of park equipment is prohibited.
      (uu)   The gathering or collecting of natural products of a renewable
living resource such as plant material for personal use or for commercial sale
is prohibited. The destroying, digging, cutting, removing, or possession of any
tree, shrub, or other plant is prohibited.
      (vv)   No person shall molest, kill, wound, hunt, or remove any animal,
reptile, bird, or the eggs of such animals. This shall not apply to fish taken
from park waters.
      (ww)   Persons, corporations, or organizations conducting public
gatherings of any type, including but not limited to events, activities,
entertainment, meetings, assemblies, worship services, demonstrations, protests
or political rallies, within the general confines of a park or municipal area
involving 25 or more persons must notify the Director in writing a minimum of
three (3) business days in advance of the intended use whenever practicable.
This notice provision is not intended to require a permit or restrict use, but
is to enable the City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services to be aware
of planned activities that may affect staffing or services within the park,
such as lawn maintenance or custodial services. This advance notice requirement
shall not apply to any gathering that is not expected to involve 25 or more
persons and also shall not apply to gatherings for which notice is not
reasonably possible. This advance notice requirement shall not be construed
under any circumstance to prohibit spontaneous or other rapidly developing
gatherings, in response to developing events, such as demonstrations, protests,
or counter-protests in response to other activities.
      (xx)   No park or facility within a park with the exception of picnic
shelters at Cane Creek Park and Dogwood Performance Pavilion may be reserved.
         All play equipment, athletic facilities, parking areas, and other
amenities are for the use of the public at large.
      (yy)   Picnic shelters at Cane Creek Park are for use by reservation only
on a fee basis. Picnic Shelters at other Parks are available for use free of
charge on a first come, first served basis.
      (zz)   All garbage, papers, cans, bottles and waste material of any kind
must be disposed of only in provided trash receptacles, or removed from site.
      (aaa)   Polluting or contaminating in any manner any watershed or water
supply is prohibited.
      (bbb)   Fish entrails or other inedible parts of fish shall not be thrown
into fresh waters or onto park area lands.
      (ccc)   Depositing of any bodily waste in or on any portion of any
restroom facility or other public structure except into fixtures provided for
that purpose is prohibited. Placing any item in any of the plumbing fixtures in
such a station or facility for the purpose of interfering with or blocking the
plumbing is prohibited. All restroom facilities shall be used in a clean and
sanitary manner.
      (ddd)   Using the public waste containers for dumping of household or
commercial garbage or trash brought as such from private property is
prohibited.
      (eee)   Smoking is prohibited in all City of Cookeville buildings and
Dogwood Park.
      (fff)   In certain instances, it may be in the best interest of the City
of Cookeville to co-sponsor a special event or sporting event with an outside
entity. This shall be done via written agreement which spells out
responsibilities for all parties involved.
      (ggg)   Swimming and bathing are prohibited except in designated aquatic
facilities specifically designed for such.
      (hhh)   Violators of posted rules governing the use of aquatic facilities
will be subject to removal from the premises if the violation is flagrant or
repeated or the continued presence of the violator would create a hazardous
condition in the area.
      (iii)   Specific rules governing the usage of municipal aquatic
facilities in the City of Cookeville can be found in the "Aquatic Policy
Manual" of this department.
      (jjj)   Motorized vehicles shall be limited to roadways and parking lots
within parks. Motorized vehicles are prohibited on grass, designated trails and
park sidewalks, with the exception of maintenance vehicles of the City of
Cookeville or authorized contractor.
      (kkk)   All operators of motor vehicles in parks must conform to all
traffic rules and regulations of the City of Cookeville and the State of
Tennessee.
      (lll)   The speed limit in all parks and recreation areas is 15 m.p.h.
      (mmm)   No driver shall stop, park, or leave any vehicle, whether
attended or unattended, upon the paved or maintained surface of a road or
parking area so as to leave less than ten (10) feet of the width of the same
traffic lane for the free or unobstructed movement of other vehicles, except in
the event of an accident or as otherwise directed by an authorized person.
      (nnn)   Pedestrians have right-of-way over motor vehicles in all parks.
      (ooo)   Operating a motor vehicle in areas other than established
roadways, parking areas, or designated routes is prohibited.
      (ppp)   All operators of motorcycles, trail bikes, off-road vehicles and
other motorized vehicles must conform to the same rules and regulations as
those of any other motor vehicle.
      (qqq)   No person shall grease, lubricate, or make repairs to any
vehicle, except those of a minor nature, and then only in case of emergency.
      (rrr)   Water skiing is prohibited on all bodies of water in park areas.
   (4)   Dogwood Pavilion Permit.
      (a)   The Dogwood Performance Pavilion may be used by the public at large
at any time a Dogwood Pavilion Permit has not been issued for use by another
person or organization. In the event a Dogwood Pavilion Permit has been issued,
the Pavilion will be exclusively available to the permit holder for the
duration indicated on the permit. The seating areas around the pavilion may not
be restricted for exclusive use and must remain open to the public at large for
any lawful purpose.
      (b)   A Dogwood Pavilion Permit holder may not restrict any lawful
activity within the seating area of the pavilion or the surrounding sidewalks,
including the use of the sidewalks on the west, south, and east areas of the
pavilion seating area, including but not limited to any demonstration or
protest consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
      (c)   Any person or organization desiring a Dogwood Pavilion Permit may
request the same from the City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services,
which shall be issued on a first come, first served basis. An application for a
Dogwood Pavilion Permit should be submitted at least three (3) business days
prior to the proposed use to provide the Department ample processing time to
the review the application, determine the applicability of this section, and to
ensure adequate staffing as may be needed.
      (d)   A Dogwood Pavilion Permit will not be denied if requested in
compliance with this Chapter, unless a prior permit has been issued for the
same time period, or if the City of Cookeville has an event utilizing the
Pavilion.
   (5)   Alcoholic beverages. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding in this
or any other ordinance, no alcoholic beverages may be consumed in any municipal
park, except in Dogwood Park for a specific City of Cookeville Conceived and
Produced Event when the City has issued a Special Event Permit for its own
event. No third parties are eligible to obtain a permit that would allow the
sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages in Dogwood Park or any municipal
park.
   (6)   Vending permit.
      (a)   Persons or organizations may distribute (other than vending)
expressive matter as discussed by Paragraph (3)(h) of this Section without a
vending permit.
      (b)   Persons or organizations may vend expressive matter as discussed by
Paragraph (3)(h) of this Section, but a vending permit is required.
         (i)   A vending permit may be obtained by submitting an application to
the City of Cookeville Department of Leisure Services. An application must be
received three (3) business days prior to the proposed vending activity to
provide the Department ample processing time to review the application and
determine the applicability of this section. The advance application period may
be waived by the Cookeville Leisure Services Department if the applicant
indicates a hardship, that the proposed use is in response to a rapidly
developing circumstance, or other good cause. A vending permit will not be
denied unless it appears that the purpose is purely commercial in nature
unconnected to the distribution of an expressive matter.
         (ii)   A vending permit may be issued for up to 30 days at a time.
         (iii)   There will be no charge for the issuance of a vending permit.
         (iv)   All materials and any tents, temporary structure, or stand,
must be removed from the park during the park's closing hours.
         (v)   A vending permit will not be issued for purely commercial
peddling or solicitation unconnected to the distribution of an expressive
matter.
   (7)   Purpose. It is intended that all rules under
Title 16, Chapter 7  of this code be prescribed and enforced in a content-
neutral manner with regard to every person, organization, or expressive
message. The City of Cookeville makes a finding that the restrictions herein
are narrowly-tailored to permit free and open expression, and to preserve the
open and peaceful public use of the City of Cookeville parks for all persons
and entities. (Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018, as amended by Ord. #O-23-12-25, Jan.
2024)
16-704. Authority of park manager.
   The park manager employed by the City of Cookeville Leisure Services
Department shall have the authority to issue citations to city court to any
individual violating the provisions of
title 16, chapter 7, §
16-703 of the Cookeville Municipal Code.
(Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018)
CHAPTER 8
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND SUPPORT STRUCTURES
LOCATED WITHIN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION
   
16-801.   Purpose.
   
16-802.   Applicability.
   
16-803.   Definitions.
   
16-804.   Pre-application conference.
   
16-805.   Alternatives for locating within the right-of-way.
   
16-806.   General standards applicable to all alternatives.
   
16-807.   Collocation.
   
16-808.   Replacement of existing support structure.
   
16-809.   New wireless communication support structure requirements.
   
16-810.   Appeals.
   
16-811.   Non-applicability.
16-801. Purpose.
   These provisions are established for the following purposes:
   (1)   The City Council of the City of Cookeville seek to facilitate the
availability of reliable, personal wireless communication services for its
citizens and the public by permitting the placement of wireless communication
facilities and associated structures within the public right-of-way in the
city.
   (2)   The installation, expansion, and maintenance of wireless communication
facilities and associated structures within the public right-of-way may have
significant impact upon:
      (a)   Aesthetic values and historic character of the city;
      (b)   Safe use and passage on or along the rights-of-way by the public;
and/or
      (c)   Properties and property values in the city in areas where such
structures are placed.
   (3)   The Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "Act") and regulations
promulgates with respect to the Act by the Federal Communications Commission
("FCC") authorize local governments to enact reasonable, non-discriminatory
regulations for the placement, expansion, height, and maintenance of wireless
communication facilities and associated structures.
   (4)   Provisions of this Chapter are subject to Sections 65-21-201 through
65-21-205 of Tennessee Code Annotated.
   (5)   As provided in this Chapter, the city seeks to mandate, where
feasible, the collocation of wireless communication facilities on existing
support structures in the public right-of-way as opposed to new structures.
   (6)   The City of Cookeville is not obligated to permit the installation of
wireless communication facilities or support structures in the right-of-way
owned by the City of Cookeville. The City of Cookeville, in its sole and
absolute discretion may decline to permit any wireless communication facilities
or support structures to be installed or constructed in the right-of-way owned
by the City of Cookeville.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-802. Applicability.
   (1) These provisions shall apply to any wireless communication facilities
and related accessory equipment or support structure located within the public
right-of-way in the City of Cookeville, excluding the right-of-ways of
Interstate 40 and State Highway 111.
   (2)   For wireless telecommunication support structures located within the
right-of-way of the State of Tennessee, documentation of approval by the State
of Tennessee for site specific locations of facility installations within the
State of Tennessee right-of-way shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a
permit from the City of Cookeville, if such approval is required by the State
of Tennessee.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-803. Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply throughout this chapter:
   (1)   "Abandonment" or "Abandon(s)" means that, following the placement of
wireless communication facilities (and associated accessory equipment) or
support structures in the city pursuant to a permit issued to a provider or an
applicant, any of the following has occurred: (a) for any reason the facilities
cease to be used to transmit signals, data or messages or otherwise be used for
their intended purposes for a period of ninety (90) days; (b) the city revokes
the permit for placement and use of those facilities due to nonpayment of
applicable fees, the failure of the provider or applicant to comply with
conditions in the permit or in this ordinance concerning them, or other valid
reason; or (c) the provider or applicant fails to perform any of its
responsibilities, obligations and requirements in this ordinance or in a permit
that relate to the installation, construction, maintenance, use or operation of
the facilities, accessory equipment or support structures, and that breach
remains uncured for a period of sixty (60) days after the city provides written
notice of the breach to the provider or applicant.
   (2)   "Accessory Equipment" means any equipment other than an antenna that
is used in conjunction with wireless communication facility arrangements. This
equipment may be attached to or detached from a wireless communication
technology support structure, and includes, but, is not limited to, cabinets,
optical converters, power amplifiers, radios, DWDM and CWDM multiplexers,
microcells, radio units, fiber optic and coaxial cables, wires, meters,
pedestals, power switches, and related equipment on or in the immediate
vicinity of a support structure.
   (3)   "Antenna" means communications equipment that transmits and receives
electromagnetic radio signals, is attached to a wireless communication support
structure and is used to communicate wireless service.
   (4)   "Applicant", whether singular or plural, means a personal wireless
service provider, an entity that is authorized by a personal wireless service
provider to apply for or receive a permit to install, construct, modify or
maintain a wireless communication facility and related accessory equipment or
support structure in the city, or an entity certificated by the State of
Tennessee to provide telecommunication service.
   (5)   "Application" means a formal request submitted to the city for a
permit to install, construct, modify or maintain a wireless communication
facility and related accessory equipment or support structure.
   (6)   "City" means the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
   (7)   "City Council" means the City Council of the City of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
   (8)   "City Manager" means the person appointed by the City Council as the
City Manager of the city. The City Manager includes any employee of the city or
other person designated by that manager to perform the responsibilities in this
Chapter.
   (9)   "Collocation" means the placement or installation of a new wireless
communication facility or related accessory equipment on an existing pole or
other support structure that is owned, controlled or leased by a utility, the
city, or other person or entity, or the replacement of an existing pole or
other support structure that is owned, controlled or leased by a utility, the
city, or other person or entity with a pole or other support structure of the
same height and diameter.
   (10)   "Monopole" means a support structure that consists of a single pole,
designed and erected on the ground or on top of a structure, to support
communications antennas and connected appurtenances.
   (11)   "Personal Wireless Service Provider" or "Provider" means an entity
that provides personal wireless communication services to the public or
citizens of the city on a commercial basis and is authorized by the FCC to
provide those services.
   (12)   "Private Property" means real property located in the city that does
not lie within the right-of-way.
   (13)   "Right-of-Way", whether singular or plural, means a strip of public
land acquired by reservation, dedication, prescription, or condemnation and
occupied or intended to be occupied by a public street, road, alley, public
utility or other public facilities. For the purposes of this chapter, this term
shall not include right-of-way of Interstate 40 and State Highway 111.
   (14)   "Stealth Technology" means a method(s) of concealing or minimizing
the visual impact of a wireless communication facility (and associated
accessory equipment) and support structure by incorporating features or design
elements which either totally or partially conceal such facilities or
equipment. The use of these design elements is intended to produce the result
of having said facilities and associated structures blend into the surrounding
environment and/or disguise, shield, hide or create the appearance that the
facilities are an architectural component of the support structure.
   (15)   "Transmission Equipment" means equipment that facilitates
transmission for any Federal Communications Commission-licensed or authorized
wireless communication service, including, but not limited to, radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, and regular and backup
power supply. The term includes equipment associated with wireless
communications services including, but not limited to, private, broadcast, and
public safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed
wireless services such as microwave backhaul.
   (16)   "Utility" means any entity and, for purposes of paragraphs (a), (b),
(c), (d), (e), and (f) of this subsection, a city, that owns, controls,
operates, or manages any facility used or to be used for or in connection with:
      (a)   The generation, production, transmission, or distribution of
electricity to or for the public, for compensation, for lights, heat, power, or
other uses;
      (b)   The production, manufacture, storage, distribution, sale, or
furnishing of natural or manufactured gas, or a mixture of same, to or for the
public, for compensation, for light, heat, power, or other uses;
      (c)   The transporting or conveying of gas, crude oil, or other fluid
substance by pipeline to or for the public, for compensation;
      (d)   The diverting, developing, pumping, impounding, distributing, or
furnishing of water to or for the public, for compensation;
      (e)   The transmission or conveyance over wire, in air, or otherwise, of
any message by telephone or telegraph for the public, for compensation; or
      (f)   The collection, transmission, or treatment of sewage for the
public, for compensation.
   (17)   "Utility, Overhead" means utility infrastructure that is located
primarily above ground as determined by the city. For purposes of these
regulations, overhead utilities include but are not limited to power lines and
communications lines.
   (18)   "Utility Pole" means a structure originally constructed for the
support of electrical, telephone, cable television or other video services,
street lighting, or other similar cables and located within the public right-
of-way or utility easements. A pole originally installed for the primary
purpose of supporting wireless telecommunications equipment, regardless of the
timeframe between pole installation and connection/implementation of
transmission equipment, is considered a wireless communication support
structure, and is not a utility pole.
   (19)   "Utility, Underground" means utility infrastructure that is located
primarily underground as determined by the city. For purposes of these
regulations, utilities include but are not limited to water lines, sanitary
sewer lines, storm sewer lines, culverts, natural gas lines, power lines, and
communications lines. This definition does not include electric transformers,
switch boxes, telephone pedestals and telephone boxes, traffic boxes, and
similar devices which are ground mounted.
   (20)   "Wireless Communications Facility" means the set of equipment and
network components including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations,
cabling, and antenna or related equipment, used to provide wireless data and
telecommunication services.
   (21)   "Wireless Communication Support Structure" or "Support Structure",
whether singular or plural, means a freestanding structure designed or used to
support, or capable of supporting, small cell technology and wireless
communication facilities, including, but not limited to, utility poles, street
light poles, traffic signal structures, or a sign.
   (22)   "Wireless Communication System" means a network of remote antenna
nodes that distributes radio frequency signals from a central hub through a
high capacity signal transport medium to a specific area. The term includes
mini commercial towers, small cells, distributed antenna systems, mini cell, or
similar systems.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-804. Pre-application conference.
   Prior to the construction or installation of any wireless communication
facility, accessory equipment, or support structure, applicants and/or
providers must contact the City of Cookeville Codes Department and request a
pre-application conference. Upon receipt of this request, Codes Department
Staff will set up the meeting which shall include all applicable City of
Cookeville staff, the applicant, and any applicable utility providers. This
meeting will allow for early coordination by identifying existing structures
that might be suitable for collocation and identifying any other items which
are in conformance/nonconformance with the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Code,
and/or the provisions of these regulations. The meeting will provide an
opportunity for an initial discussion regarding proposed structure locations,
design, and the permit application submittal and approval process. Coordination
with utilities for possible use of preexisting structures will be required.
Applicants should supply the provider's preferred locations, structure design
style and structure height two (2) weeks prior to the pre-application meeting
or upon request for such meeting.
(Ord. #O17-09- 16, Oct. 2017)
16-805. Alternatives for locating within the right-of-way.
   There are three (3) alternatives for the location of any wireless
communication facility, accessory equipment or support structure within the
right-of-ways located in the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville:
   (1)   Collocation. Collocation is the preferred alternative for locating a
wireless communication facility and accessory equipment within the right-of-
way. The provisions of Section 16.807 of this Chapter shall apply for
collocation of any wireless communication facility and/or accessory equipment.
   (2)   Replacement of existing support structure. Replacement of an existing
support structure is the second most preferred alternative for locating a
wireless communication facility and accessory equipment within the right-of-
way. The provisions of Section
16-808 of this Chapter shall apply for replacement of existing support
structures to accommodate wireless communication facilities.
   (3)   New Support Structure. The least preferred alternative for locating a
wireless communication facility and/or accessory equipment within the right-of-
way is the installation of a new support structure. This alternative shall not
be permitted until it has been verified that collocation and replacement of
existing support structure alternatives as described in Sections
16-805(1) and
16-805(2) are not viable options. The provisions of Section
16-809 of this Chapter shall apply for the installation of any new support
structure.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-806. General standards applicable to all alternatives.
   (1)   Certificate of insurance required. Prior to installing the facilities
or support structures, the applicant shall provide the city a certificate(s) of
insurance with the City of Cookeville as an additional insured, evidencing that
the applicant has obtained and will maintain the following types of insurance
in connection with its operations on or use of the right-of-way:
      (a)   General Liability coverage insuring the risk of claims for damages
to persons or property arising from or related to the installation,
construction, maintenance, operation or any use of facility or support
structure placed on or along the right-of-way by the applicant (or any of their
contractors) with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence with a general
policy aggregate of $ 3,000,000.00; and
      (b)   Workers Compensation Insurance as required by state statute. The
General Liability coverage shall list the city as an additional insured, and
may be provided through a combination of a primary and umbrella policies. All
insurance policies shall be furnished by insurers who are acceptable to the
city and authorized to transact business in the State of Tennessee. On an
annual basis following initial installation, the applicant also shall furnish
the city a certificate indicating that the above-noted coverage remains and
will remain in effect.
   (2)   Installers shall comply with the National Electric Safety Code (NESC)
and all other laws, rules and regulations of the State of Tennessee.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-807. Collocation.
   (1)   To the extent practical, all facilities and associated accessory
equipment that are placed in the public right-of-way shall be attached to a
pre-existing support structure that is owned, or controlled by a utility, the
city or other entity.
   (2)   All attachments to city owned pre-existing support structures within
the public right-of-way shall be made in accordance with all applicable
policies of the Cookeville Electric Department. The following criteria will
apply to attachments to pre-existing support structures:
      (a)   The accessory equipment shall, if reasonably possible, be placed at
least eight (8) feet above the ground, electric meters shall be placed in
accordance with all applicable policies of the Cookeville Electric Department;
      (b)   The color of antenna and accessory equipment shall be compatible
with that of the support structure;
      (c)   The facility (including the accessory equipment) shall not be
illuminated;
      (d)   The proposed installation will not cause harm to the public or pose
any undue risk to public safety;
      (e)   The proposed installation will not interfere with vehicular
traffic, passage of pedestrians, or other use of the right-of-way by the
public; and
      (f)   The proposed installation will not disturb conditions on the right-
of-way or the applicant can demonstrate its ability and financial resources to
restore the subject area to its pre-existing condition following installation.
   (3)   Permit not required. Collocation opportunities located within right-
of-way in the City of Cookeville do not require installation of a new support
structure. No wireless communication support structure permit is required for
antennas locating on existing utility poles (as defined by this Chapter) or
other existing support structures. These locations must adhere to all other
applicable federal, state, and local zoning codes, building codes or permits.
(Ord. #O17- 09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-808. Replacement of existing support structure.
   (1)   If a pre-existing support structure identified for collocation of
wireless communication facilities has been determined unable to sufficiently
support additional attachments associated with the wireless communication
facility, a request to replace the existing support structure, at the
applicant/provider's expense, can be made to the utility, the city or other
entity. A proposed replacement structure shall meet the needs of all existing
attachments while accommodating the additional wireless communication
technology facilities.
   (2)   Maximum height. Any replacement of an existing support structure shall
not exceed an additional five (5) feet in height of the existing support
structure, provided it does not exceed a maximum height of fifty (50) feet. A
height that is in excess of what is permitted may be approved by staff if it
integrates stealth technology that better meets the objectives of these
regulations.
   (3)   Any proposed replacement of an existing utility pole or support
structure must safely accommodate existing attachments, and is subject to
approval by the Cookeville Electric Department, or other utility, or other
entity.
   (4)   All attachments to city owned support structures within the public
right-of-way shall be made in accordance with all applicable polices of the
Cookeville Electric Department. In additional, the following criteria shall
apply to attachments to any replaced support structures:
      (a)   The accessory equipment shall, if reasonably possible, be placed at
least eight (8) feet above the ground, electric meters shall be placed in
accordance with all applicable policies of the Cookeville Electric Department;
      (b)   The color of antenna and accessory equipment shall be compatible
with that of the support structure;
      (c)   The facility (including the accessory equipment) shall not be
illuminated;
      (d)   The proposed installation will not cause harm to the public or pose
any undue risk to public safety;
      (e)   The proposed installation will not interfere with vehicular
traffic, passage of pedestrians, or other use of the right-of-way by the
public; and
      (f)   The proposed installation will not disturb conditions on the right-
of-way or the applicant can demonstrate its ability and financial resources to
restore the subject area to its pre-existing condition following installation.
   (5)   Permit not required. Replacement of existing support structures for
the location of wireless communication facilities shall be considered a
collocation. No wireless communication support structure permit is required for
replacement of an existing support structure. These locations must adhere to
all other applicable federal, state, and local zoning codes and building codes
or permits.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-809. New wireless communication support structure requirements.
   (1)   If the applicant demonstrates that no collocation opportunities exist
and no replacement of existing support structures is feasible in the area where
a technologically documented need for a wireless communication facility exists,
the applicant may request that a new pole or other support structure be
installed in that area for purposes of constructing the facilities. Before any
new support structure is permitted, each of the following must occur:
      (a)   The applicant must have provided the city written evidence that no
practical collocation or support structure replacement opportunity exists. This
evidence shall include, but not be limited to, affidavits, correspondence, or
other written information that demonstrates that the applicant has taken all
commercially reasonable actions to achieve collocation or pole replacement in
the requested location or area.
      (b)   That the applicant has pursued but been denied access to all
potential collocation and support structure replacement sites in the subject
area (and the reasons for any such denial(s), and otherwise show that the
applicant is unable to collocate on or replace an existing support structure.
   (2)   Permit required. A provider or applicant must obtain a permit from the
City of Cookeville Codes Department before placing, installing, or constructing
any wireless communication technology facility support structure (and
associated accessory equipment) within any public right-of-way.
   (3)   Application submittal. All proposed wireless communication support
structures within public right-of-way shall be subject to administrative review
and approval by the Codes Department. The factual determination approving or
rejecting such plans shall be made in accordance with requirements of this
ordinance and any other applicable city codes or regulations. One application
for multiple proposed support structures within the same wireless communication
system is encouraged whenever possible. At a minimum, each application for a
permit shall contain all of the following:
      (a)   A written description and map showing the coverage area of the
provider's existing facilities in the general and site-specific areas that are
the subject of the application.
      (b)   A statement of the telecommunications objectives for the proposed
location, whether the proposed facility is necessary to prevent or fill a gap
or capacity shortfall in the applicant or provider's service area, whether it
is the least obtrusive means of doing so, and whether there are any alternative
sites that would have fewer aesthetic impacts while providing comparable
service.
      (c)   A statement by an authorized representative that the applicant or
provider holds all applicable licenses or other approvals required by any
agency of state or federal government with authority to regulate
telecommunications facilities that are required in order for the applicant to
construct the proposed facility.
      (d)   A statement by an authorized representative that the applicant or
provider is in compliance with all conditions required for such license and
approvals.
      (e)   A full description of the number and dimensions of all wireless
communication support structures proposed to be installed.
      (f)   A site development plan, signed and sealed by a professional
engineer registered in Tennessee, showing the proposed location of the support
structure and existing structures within five hundred (500) feet of the
proposed site. For applications in which multiple support structures are
proposed, an overall site development plan showing all proposed locations
within the city limits must be provided.
      (g)   A vertical profile sketch or drawing of the support structures and
foundations, signed and sealed by a professional engineer registered in
Tennessee, indicating the height of the support structure and the placement of
all antennas and equipment enclosures.
      (h)   Photographs from each proposed support structure location, taken in
at least four directions.
      (i)   Description of whether other overhead utilities exist within five
hundred (500) feet of the proposed antenna location.
   (4)   Processing of application. The city shall review and take final action
on applications for new wireless communication support structures within sixty
(60) days of submittal of a completed application. This time period will not
begin until the filing fee is submitted and the application is deemed complete
by staff. Staff shall notify the applicant once the application is deemed
complete and provide the deadline for the staff review period. Staff shall
either approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. If staff does
not make a final decision within the required sixty (60) days, the application
shall be deemed to be approved as submitted.
   (5)   Location and design requirements.
      (a)   A new wireless communication support structure is subject to design
review and approval by city staff. The design criteria required for the new
wireless communication system is determined by the type of location and
conditions of that location in which the facility is to be located.
      (b)   Collocations: Other than the pre-application conference, no
administrative review by staff is required for wireless communication
facilities collocating on existing telecommunications structures, utility poles
(as defined by this regulation) or other existing structures. These locations
do not require the installation of a new support structure. Collocations must
adhere to all other applicable federal, state, utility, and city policies or
codes, zoning codes, building codes or permits.
      (c)   Temporary, mobile or wheeled cellular antenna towers within the
public right-of-way are prohibited, with the exception of providing service
during a special event or in the case of an emergency as determined necessary
by the City Manager.
      (d)   Maximum height. New wireless communication support structures shall
not exceed a height ten (10) feet higher than the height of utility poles or
street light poles adjacent to the proposed location, but in no case shall
exceed fifty (50) feet in height. If no utility or street light poles are
adjacent to the proposed location, a new wireless communication support
structure shall not exceed fifty (50) feet in height. A height that is in
excess of what is permitted may be approved by staff if it integrates stealth
technology that better meets the objectives of these regulations.
      (e)   New wireless communication support structures shall be monopole
structures and shall not exceed twenty-four (24) inches in diameter.
      (f)   New wireless communication support structures shall be designed and
constructed to accommodate a minimum of two (2) service providers.
      (g)   New wireless communication support structures located within a
public right-of-way shall not interfere with other utilities, functionality of
sidewalks, visibility, or other matters of public safety.
      (h)   New wireless communication support structures shall not be
illuminated, except in accord with state or federal regulations, or unless
illumination is integral to the stealth technology, such as a design intended
to look like a street light pole.
      (i)   New wireless communication support structures shall not include
advertisements and may only display information required by a federal, state,
or local agency. Such display shall not exceed one (1) square foot in area,
unless required by state or federal regulations, or unless a larger display is
integral to the stealth technology. Such display shall not exceed the width of
the pole, unless a wider sign is integral to the stealth technology such as a
design which integrates a decorative banner.
      (j)   If a new wireless communication support structure is located in an
area with primarily underground utilities, or where no adjacent overhead
utility lines exist, it shall not utilize overhead utility lines.
      (k)   In instances where an antenna is proposed to be constructed within
a district with established public or private design control measures, efforts
shall be made to adhere to any established design control measures or existing
furnishing or fixture styles within the district. Where additional local design
review processes exist, such as Certificates of Appropriateness, such approvals
may be required.
      (l)   If the new support structure(s) are to be located outside of public
right-of-way on private property, installations will be subject to provisions
of Section 206.17 of the City of Cookeville Zoning Code regulating Wireless
Communication Tower Structures and Antenna Arrays.
      (m)   The use of cooling fans is discouraged. When needed, fans with
lower noise profiles must be used.
      (n)   New wireless communication support structures in the public right-
of-way shall not be located within five hundred (500) feet of an existing
wireless communication system support structure in the right-of-way. Multiple
carriers are permitted and encouraged to locate on one support structure, where
possible. Closer locations may be approved by city staff if applicant provides
documentation with justification.
      (o)   Shrouds, risers, and conduits shall be used to reduce the
appearance of external cabling.
      (p)   All support structures, antennas, brackets, cabling, risers,
shrouds, and conduits shall be uniform grey or black in color, or other color
as approved by city staff.
      (q)   Cylindrical antennas are encouraged, unless another antenna style
is integral to the stealth technology as approved by city staff.
      (r)   There shall be no more than a four (4) inch offset between the pole
and pole mounted equipment enclosures.
      (s)   New wireless communication support structures should be located to
avoid obstructing the view of building facades by placing the tower at a
corner, intersection or along a lot line.
      (t)   Facilities in residential areas are strongly encouraged to be
collocations.
      (u)   Wireless communication support structures and antenna or related
equipment located in residential areas shall be camouflaged by stealth
technology. Examples of appropriate stealth technology for residential areas
includes, at a minimum, support structures with all cables, wires, transmission
equipment, electric meters, power equipment, etc. installed inside the wireless
communication support structure. Other types of stealth technology or other
methods which will reduce the visual impact may be approved by city staff.
      (v)   In residential areas, a wireless communication support structure
shall not be located closer than the height of the proposed tower to an
existing or proposed residential structure, or no closer than thirty (30) feet,
whichever is greater.
   (6)   Evaluation criteria. Evaluation of the proposal shall be based upon
the following criteria and shall be subject to administrative approval by city
staff:
      (a)   All new wireless communication support structure applications will
be reviewed by all applicable City Departments to determine impact on existing
utilities in the rights-of-way.
      (b)   The extent to which the proposal is consistent with the purposes of
these regulations.
      (c)   The extent to which the proposal minimizes the impact on adjacent
land uses, especially in terms of visual impact.
      (d)   The extent to which the proposed facility is camouflaged (i.e., use
of stealth technology).
      (e)   The extent to which the proposed facility conforms to the character
of the surrounding area (i.e., buildings, street lighting, signs).
   (7)   Maintenance. All wireless communication facilities and associated
support structures must be installed, erected, maintained and operated in
compliance with applicable federal and state laws and regulations, including,
but not limited to, regulations of the FCC. Wireless communication facilities
and support structures must at all times be maintained in good and safe
condition. On no more frequent than a triennial basis, the Codes Department may
request that the provider or applicant, at their expense, furnish certification
from a professional engineer who is licensed in the State of Tennessee that the
facilities and support structures are in sound condition. Should that engineer
deem those structures unsound, the provider or applicant shall furnish to the
Codes Department a plan to remedy any unsafe conditions or structural defect(s)
and take that remedial action at the provider or applicant's expense to be
completed within a reasonable amount of time determined by the Codes
Department.
   (8)   Abandonment. If a Provider or Applicant abandons any facility
(including the accessory equipment) or an associated support structure
(collectively "facilities" for purposes of this section) that is located on the
right-of-way, the following rights and obligations shall exist. The city may
require the provider or applicant, at their expense, to remove and reclaim the
abandoned facilities within sixty (60) days from the date of written notice of
abandonment given by the city to them and to reasonably restore the condition
of the property at which the facilities are located to that existing before
they were installed. If the provider or applicant fails to remove and reclaim
its abandoned facilities within such 60-day period and the facilities are
located on the right-of-way, the city shall have the rights to (a) remove them
and charge its expense of any such removal operation to the account of the
provider or applicant, (b) purchase all abandoned facilities at the subject
location from the provider or applicant in consideration for $1.00, (c) at the
city's discretion, either resell the abandoned facilities to a third party or
dispose and salvage them; provided that the proceeds of any resale of abandoned
facilities by the city to a third party shall be credited to the account of the
applicant or provider that used those facilities before the abandonment, and
(d) charge any expense incurred by the city to restore the right-of-way to the
account of the provider or applicant.
   (9)   Fees. The Applicant for a permit to place a wireless communication
technology support structures within the public right-of-way shall pay the
following types of fees as set out below:
      (a)   All applicants shall pay to the city a non-refundable permit
application filing fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) per support
structure.
      (b)   The wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual permit
renewal fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per support structure.
      (c)   The annual permit renewal fee provided for in section
16-809(9)(b) shall be payable annually on or before October 1 of each calendar
year for the portion of the wireless communication systems within the public
right-of-way on January 1 of that year and a pro-rated permit fee, based upon
the calendar quarter in which the application is filed, shall be paid at the
time of the application for a wireless telecommunication permit for all new
portions of the system.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-810. Appeals.
   (1)   Reconsideration/Appeal. Any applicant that desires reconsideration of
an administrative decision by the Codes Department to deny a request for a
permit to place a facility or support structure within the right-of-way may
seek review, modification or reversal of that decision by the City Manager by
submitting a request for reconsideration with the City Manager's Office within
thirty (30) calendar days following the Codes Department decision.
   (2)   Any applicant that desires reconsideration of an administrative
decision by the City Manager to deny a request for a permit to place a facility
or support structure within the right-of-way may seek review, modification or
reversal of that decision by the City Manager to the City Council by submitting
a request for reconsideration with the City Clerk within thirty (30) calendar
days following the City Manager's decision. That request for reconsideration
will be considered by the City Council at a regular Council meeting that will
be conducted as soon as practical after the request for reconsideration is
made. If no request for reconsideration is submitted, the decision of the Codes
Department will be final.
   (3)   Additionally, the applicant may appeal any decision by the City
Council made pursuant to this Chapter to a court of record in the manner
provided by the laws of the State of Tennessee. If no appeal of those decisions
of the City Council is made, those will be deemed final.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
16-811. Non-applicability.
   The placement of an antenna(s), facilities or equipment related to the
following types of wireless communication services are exempt from regulation
under this ordinance: (a) amateur radio service that is licensed by the FCC if
the facilities related thereto are not used or licensed for any commercial
purpose; (b) facilities used by any federal, state or local government or
agency to provide safety or emergency services; and (c) any "eligible
facilities request" as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 1455(a). Further, the provisions
in this Chapter are applicable only to wireless communication facilities
located within the public right-of-way and are supplemental to, and not
intended to alter, affect or modify the provisions of Section 206.17 of the
Cookeville Zoning Code regulating Wireless Communication Tower Structures and
Antenna Arrays located outside of the public right-of-way.
(Ord. #O17-09-16, Oct. 2017)
CHAPTER 9
TEMPORARY STREET CLOSURES
SECTION
   
16-901.   Purpose.
   
16-902.   Definitions.
   
16-903.    Temporary street closure permit required.
   
16-904.   Application fee required.
   
16-905.    Clean-up deposit required.
   
16-906.   Exemptions.
   
16-907.   Temporary street closure permit application.
   
16-908.   Temporary street closure permit issuance standards.
   
16-909.   Financial assurance/liability insurance required.
   
16-910.   Notification of businesses affected by the temporary street closure.
   
16-911.   Anti-noise regulations.
   
16-912.   Nondiscrimination.
   
16-913.   Approval, denial, and revocation.
   
16-914.   Limit on number of temporary street closure permits.
   
16-915.   Event sponsor responsibilities.
16-901.  Purpose . 
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide procedures for the issuance of
temporary street closure permits with the general intent of promoting public
safety and welfare; providing the City with a standard logistical timeframe to
accommodate requests for temporary street closures; ensuring temporary street
closures do not interfere with the daily activities of the community; ensuring
streets and sidewalks remain accessible and safe; and ensuring access to public
property by other members of the community not involved in the requested event.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-902.  Definitions. 
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   (1)   "City Manager." The City Manager or city employee designated by the
City Manager to act on his/her behalf.
   (2)   "City Sponsored Event." Any event solely planned, administered,
coordinated, held, and paid for by the City of Cookeville.
   (3)   "Co-sponsored Event." Any event planned, administered, coordinated,
held, and paid for in conjunction with another event sponsor and the City of
Cookeville.
   (4)   "Event." Any public gathering to be conducted on public or private
property within the City of Cookeville.
   (5)   "Event Sponsor." Any organizer, promoter, coordinator, person, group,
corporation, partnership, governing body, association, or any other public or
private organization, or owner of property that is responsible for the event
requiring a temporary street closure.
   (6)   "Financial Assurance." Liability insurance which shall indemnify and
hold harmless the City of Cookeville and its agents, officers, and employees
from any liability or causes of action which might arise by reason of granting
a temporary street closure permit, and from any cost incurred in clean-up of
the event.
   (7)   "Independent Event." Any event not co-sponsored or sponsored by the
City of Cookeville.
   (8)   "Permit." An approved temporary street closure permit application.
   (9)   "Private Gathering." Any event held on private property and is not
open to the public. A private gathering shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter unless a street closure is requested.
   (10)   "Public Gathering." Any public activity to be conducted within or on
any public property and conducted within any street or intersection with the
City of Cookeville.
   (11)   "Temporary Street Closure." A condition created by an event, private
gathering, or public gathering to be conducted within or on any street or
intersection within the City of Cookeville that requires one or more lanes of
travel to be closed for a public safety purpose.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-903. Temporary street closure permit required. 
   An event sponsor seeking a temporary street closure permit shall submit an
application to the Cookeville Police Department not less than thirty (30) days
prior to the date on which the temporary street closure is needed. Late
applications may be considered at the City Manager's discretion.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-904.  Application fee required. 
   A non-refundable application fee of $100.00 must be submitted with the
completed application. The application fee may be waived at the City Manager's
discretion.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-905.  Clean-up deposit required. 
   A refundable cash deposit or other security of $250.00 must be submitted
with the completed application to cover any cost incurred by the City in clean-
up of the event. The clean-up deposit fee may be waived at the City Manager's
discretion.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-906. Exemptions. 
   A temporary street closure permit, application fee, and clean-up deposit
shall not be required for the following events:
   (1)   Funeral processions;
   (2)   Governmental agencies acting within the scope of its function; and
   (3)   Extempore events deemed exempt by the City Manager including, but
limited to, temporary construction and necessary repair events. The Cookeville
Police Department must be notified prior to the temporary street closure.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-907. Temporary street closure permit application. 
   For temporary street closures, an application for a permit shall be made
upon a form provided by the City of Cookeville and shall contain the following
information:
   (1)   The name of the event sponsor requesting the temporary street closure;
   (2)   The name, email, address, and phone number of the individual
representing the event sponsor;
   (3)   The date and beginning and ending hours of the request;
   (4)   A description of the reason for the request;
   (5)   The location, route, streets, and/or intersections, in which the
temporary street closure will occur and a map of the same, and indicate where a
temporary street closure is required; and
   (6)   Such information deemed reasonably necessary by the City Manager.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-908. Temporary street closure permit issuance standards. 
   The City Manager will decide on whether to issue a temporary street closure
permit after the application has been reviewed by the Cookeville Police
Department and City Clerk. An incomplete application will be returned to the
event sponsor and will not be considered for approval. Issuance of a temporary
street closure permit will be granted after a consideration of the application
and from such other information as may otherwise be obtained, and all the
following circumstances exist:
   (1)   The event sponsor has not knowingly and with intent to deceive, made
any false, misleading, or fraudulent statements of material fact in the
application or in any other document required pursuant to this chapter;
   (2)   The event sponsor has met the standards in this chapter and has
submitted in advance any required fees, deposits, and assurances, and has
agreed to such conditions as are imposed in the permit;
   (3)   The times, duration, and size of the event will not cause undue
hardship to adjacent businesses or residents;
   (4)   There are no other events requiring a temporary street closure for the
same time and location that have been or will be granted, unless the parties
have agreed to work in conjunction;
   (5)   The concentration of persons and the temporary street closure will not
unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection, or ambulance service,
or with the movement of fire and police equipment;
   (6)   The event sponsor has not previously held a temporary street closure
permit and demonstrated an inability or unwillingness to conduct an event
pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-909. Financial assurance/liability insurance required. 
   The event sponsor shall provide proof of liability insurance in the amount
of one million dollars ($1,000,000) and naming the City of Cookeville as
additional insured for the date and times of the event. Proof of insurance
shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a permit. Failure to provide proof
of liability insurance will result in the permit being denied.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-910. Notification of businesses affected by the temporary street closure. 
   The event sponsor shall notify all businesses around the temporary street
closure, concerning the date and times, at least ten (10) days prior to the
temporary street closure. Failure to provide notification may result in the
suspension of the permit by the Cookeville Police Department and may result in
the event sponsor being ineligible for any future temporary street closure
permits.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-911.  Anti-Noise Regulations. 
   The anti-noise regulations of
Title 11, Chapter 2 of the Cookeville Municipal Code are applicable for any
event requiring a temporary street closure permit. The event sponsor shall
obtain a special noise permit, if required as specified in Title 11, Chapter 2,
Section
12-202. of the Cookeville Municipal Code. Failure to obtain a special noise
permit, if required, may result in the suspension of the permit by the
Cookeville Police Department and may result in the event sponsor being
ineligible for any future temporary street closure permits.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-912. Nondiscrimination. 
   The City of Cookeville shall uniformly consider each application for a
temporary street closure permit based upon its merits and shall not
discriminate in granting or denying permits under this chapter based upon
political, ethnic, religious, race, disability, or gender related grounds.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-913. Approval, denial, and revocation. 
   Permit applications shall be approved, denied, or revoked as follows:
   (1)   Approval. The submitted temporary street closure permit application
and all requested additional documentation shall be reviewed by the Cookeville
Police Department and City Manager. Upon review, completed applications that
meet the standards provided in this chapter shall be approved for a temporary
street closure permit. The approved temporary street closure permit application
shall be given to the City Clerk and a temporary street closure permit shall be
issued to the event sponsor.
   (2)   Denial. If a temporary street closure permit application is denied,
the reasons for denial shall be identified with reference to the standards in
this chapter with which the temporary street closure permit application would
conflict. No denial shall be arbitrary, capricious, or without factual basis.
   (3)   Revocation. The Cookeville Police Department shall have the authority
to revoke a temporary street closure permit instantly upon violation of the
standards set forth in this chapter or when a public emergency arises where the
Cookeville Police Department resources required for that emergency are so great
that any police services provided for the temporary street closure would hinder
the welfare and safety of persons or property.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-914. Limit on number of temporary street closure permits. 
   No individual event sponsor shall be issued more than four (4) temporary
street closure permits in a calendar year.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
16-915. Event sponsor responsibilities. 
   The Cookeville Police Department and/or the City Manager may require the
event sponsor provide, at the event sponsor's expense, traffic control devices
such as traffic cones, barricades, directional signals, etc.; an Emergency
Management Agency Event Plan, if determined necessary by the City of
Cookeville; volunteer traffic control personnel and/or off-duty police
officers; sanitary facilities; or other needed material or equipment. Failure
to provide any of the requirements specified for the day of the activity may
result in the suspension of the permit by the Cookeville Police Department.
(Ord. #O22-12-29, December 2022)
TITLE 17
SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL 1
1   Charter reference
   Hospital facilities:
art. IX.
   Municipal code reference
   Animal control:
title 10.
   Existing building code:
title 12.
   Property maintenance regulations:
title 13.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION.
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
SECTION
   
17-101.   Applicability.
   
17-102.   Definitions.
   
17-103.   General standards.
   
17-104.   Standards for residential solid waste.
   
17-105.   Apartment and condominiums picked up residentially.
   
17-106.   Non-residential and commercial solid waste.
   
17-107.   Collection of leaves, lawn clippings, brush, construction debris and
other debris.
   
17-108.   Requirements for private refuse collectors.
   
17-109.   Disposal of refuse.
   
17-110.   Dumping in streams, ditches, storm sewers, and sanitary sewers
prohibited.
   
17-111.   Burning of refuse without prior approval prohibited.
   
17-112.   Issuance of citations.
   
17-113.   Violations.
   
17-114.   Enforcement and remedies.
17-101. Applicability.
   The following regulations governing refuse collection shall apply to each
owner, occupant, tenant, sub-tenant, lessee, or others using or occupying any
building, house, structure, or grounds within the corporate limits of the City
of Cookeville where refuse materials or substances as defined in this chapter
accumulate or are likely to accumulate.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001)
17-102. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following terms shall have the meanings
as indicated:
   (1)   "Solid waste." The term "solid waste" as hereinafter referred to in
this chapter, shall include garbage; rubbish; ashes; and all other putrescent
and non-putrescent, combustible materials originating from the preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food; market refuse; and waste from the handling
and sale of produce and other similar unwanted materials; but shall not include
sewage, human body wastes, or recognizable industrial by-products, from all
residences and establishments, public and private.
   (2)   "Refuse." All putrescent wastes, except sewage and human body wastes,
including vegetable and animal offal and carcasses of dead animals, but
excluding recognizable industrial by-products, from all public and private
residences and establishments.
   (3)   "Rubbish." All non-putrescent waste materials from all public and
private residences and establishments.
   (4)   "Collector." Any person, firm, corporation, or political subdivision,
which collects, transports, or disposes of any refuse within the corporate
limits of the City of Cookeville.
   (5)   "Enforcement officer." The Director of the City of Cookeville
Department of Public Works or other city official appointed or designated by
the City Manager of the City of Cookeville to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   (6)   "Infectious wastes." The term "infectious waste" means waste which
contain pathogens with sufficient virulence and quantity so that exposure to
the waste by a susceptible host could result in an infectious disease. For
purposes of this policy, the following waste shall be considered to be
infectious waste:
      (a)   "Human blood and blood products." Waste human blood and blood
products such as serum, plasma, and other blood components.
      (b)   "Pathological wastes." Pathological wastes, such as tissues,
organs, body parts, and body fluids.
      (c)   "Contaminated sharps." All discarded sharps (e.g. hypodermic
needles, syringes, Pasteur pipettes, broken glass, scalpel blades) used in
patient care or which have come into contact with infectious agents during use
in medical, research, or industrial laboratories.
   (7)   "Construction waste." The term "construction waste" shall mean
materials from construction, demolition, remodeling, construction site
preparation, including but not limited to rocks, trees, debris, dirt, bricks,
fill, plaster, and all types of scrap building materials.
   (8)   "Dumpster." The term "dumpster" shall mean steel waste receptacles of
not less than 4 cubic yards and not more than 40 cubic yards designed for the
storage of solid waste. The containers shall meet industry standards for
service.
   (9)   "Roll out container." The term "roll out container" shall mean a
standard city issued 96-gallon container designed for the storage of solid
waste prior to collection.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as amended by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-103. General standards.
   The following general standards shall apply for the collection of refuse in
the city:
   (1)   Standards for refuse containers. The volume of all refuse containers
and dumpsters shall be adequate to accommodate the refuse of any residential or
non-residential use. Specific standards for containers and dumpsters shall as
specified herein and as determined by the director of the department of public
works. All refuse containers and dumpsters shall be securely covered except
when refuse is being deposited or removed therefrom.
      It shall be the responsibility of the director of the department of
public works or his designee to determine the adequate volume of all containers
and dumpsters.
   (2)   Unlawful use of containers and dumpsters. No person shall deposit
refuse in a privately or publicly owned container or dumpster without the
expressed permission of the owner of said container or dumpster.
   (3)   Disposal of diapers, animal feces, and cat litter. Alldiapers, animal
feces, cat litter and similar wastes shall be placed in durable plastic bags
adequately sealed before being placed in a refuse container.
   (4)   Disposal of paints, stains, and similar materials. Paints, stains and
similar materials still in their liquid form shall not be placed in refuse
containers or dumpsters and shall not be collected by the department of public
works as a part of regular collection.
   (5)   Scavenging and salvaging unlawful. No person shall remove or attempt
to remove materials from any refuse container or dumpster belonging to another
person or business. All materials placed in a refuse container or dumpster
shall be the property of the City of Cookeville or the authorized collector.
   (6)   Hazardous materials. Highly flammable, combustible, explosive or
hazardous materials shall not be placed in refuse containers or dumpsters and
shall not be collected by the department of public works as a part of regular
collection. Such materials shall be disposed of as prescribed by state and
local laws.
   (7)   Syringes and other medical waste. All syringes and other medical waste
shall be placed in sealed, puncture proof containers prior to being placed in a
refuse container for collection by the department of public works or the
authorized collector.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as amended by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-104. Standards for residential solid waste.
   (1)   All residents shall be provided one 96 gallon roll out container at no
charge to properly store one
   (1)   week's accumulation of refuse.
   (2)   Residential households who regularly exceed ninety six (96) gallons of
garbage a week may obtain a second container for a one-time user fee.
   (3)   Only refuse in the container shall be collected. Additional refuse
left on the ground will not be picked up.
   (4)   The refuse roll out container shall not be filled to overflowing as to
prevent the lid from fully closing. Container lids are to be closed for
collection.
      If the overflow of refuse is regular, the city shall notify the resident
to obtain an additional container.
   (5)   All residents except those approved for special assistance due to
handicap, Illness or infirmity shall place their refuse containers at curbside
or at the edge of the street no later than 7:00 A.M. on the day of collection.
      Containers must be removed from the curb, street, or alleyway no later
than 7:00 P.M. on the day of collection.
   (6)   The container shall be placed in such a manner as not to interfere
with overhead power lines or tree branches, parked cars, vehicular traffic, or
in any other way that would constitute a public hazard or nuisance. Containers
are to be at least four (4) feet from any tree, pole, mailbox, fire hydrant,
etc and at least ten (10) feet away from any cars parked in the street.
   (7)   Each resident shall be responsible for keeping the container clean and
sanitary in compliance with health and sanitation requirements and shall keep
container lid closed at all times.
   (8)   The container is not to be painted, abused, mutilated, altered or
modified in any manner.
   (9)   Each resident or owner shall be responsible for replacing the refuse
container if it is damaged or destroyed by the resident or owner as a result of
his negligence, by the payment of the purchase price expended by the city for
the purchase of said refuse container.
   (10)   The city shall replace any refuse container that is worn out by
normal wear and tear, or if it is stolen or damaged by a person other than the
resident to whom it is assigned.
   (11)   Residents that are not in compliance with the city's roll out
container rules and regulations will be notified by placement of a sticker on
the container. The sticker will be clearly marked what compliance is not being
met.
      If the resident does not meet the compliance by the next week's
collection day, the container will not be emptied.
   (12)   Any resident moving to another location within the city limits, or
out of the city limits, shall be responsible for notifying the public works
department. The roll out container shall remain at the original assigned
location. Additional containers purchased by any resident shall also remain at
the original assigned location unless the resident is moving to another
location inside city limits.
   (13)   An exemption may be made by any resident who is unable to push the
roll out container to the curb due to handicap, illness or infirmity. A
doctor's statement is required by the public works department for the roll out
container to be serviced in a location other than curbside.
   (14)   Household material that will not fit into a roll out container such
as appliances, furniture, large boxes, etc. may not be set out with the regular
garbage. These bulk items will be collected separately on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month by calling the public works department. All items must
be placed at curbside for collection.
   (15)   Highly flammable, combustible, explosive or hazardous materials shall
not be placed in containers for regular collection, but shall be disposed of as
prescribed by the state and local laws.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-105. Apartments and condominiums picked up residentially.
   Apartments, condominiums or any other private properties that, at the
discretion of the city, are allowed to receive refuse container service shall
comply with the following conditions:
   (1)   The owner or association shall be responsible for any damage caused to
private driveway surfaces by city sanitation trucks collecting refuse
containers or dumpsters.
   (2)   The owner or association shall be financially responsible for
replacing the roll out container if it is damaged, destroyed or stolen by a
tenant.
      Payment shall be made to the city for the purchase price expended by the
city for the container.
   (3)   The complex must have an area for sanitation vehicles to turn around
as sanitation trucks will not be allowed to back into a complex.
   (4)   The city will assess a fee, based on quantity and frequency of
collections for multi-family residential uses; said fee shall be set by the
city manager or his designee.
(Ord. #00-06-08, Sept. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-106. Non-residential and commercial solid waste.
   The following general standards shall apply for the collection of non-
residential and commercial refuse n the City.
   (1)   Fee to be assessed. The city will assess a fee, based on quantity and
frequency of collections for non-residential and commercial uses; said fee
shall be set by the city manager or his designee.
   (2)   Standards for non-residential refuse containers. If determined as
necessary by the director of public works or his designee, non-residential uses
shall be required to obtain a dumpster. When dumpsters are not required by the
public works department, then all non-residential refuse containers shall meet
the requirements specified in
17-104 (1) of this chapter.
   (3)   Location and screened requirements for dumpsters. All dumpsters shall
be located and screened as specified in the city zoning code and as determined
by the director of public works or his designee.
   (4)   Standards for dumpster pads and approaches. Pads and approaches for
all dumpsters shall be installed as per the specifications of the department of
public works.
   (5)   Every commercial establishment serviced by the city shall place all
garbage in a city approved container, and shall maintain the container and the
surrounding area in a clean, neat and sanitary condition. All containers shall
be cleaned and disinfected on a regular basis.
   (6)   Any establishment that is serviced by the city shall be required to
have a container or containers that is of sufficient size and number to
accommodate the weekly accumulation of refuse. Containers shall at all times be
kept in a place easily accessible to city equipment as approved by the director
of public works or his designee. At no time shall objects, obstructions, or
vehicles hinder in any way whatsoever the servicing of said containers.
   (7)   Businesses using regulation ninety six (96) gallon roll out containers
for collection shall provide sufficient containers to properly store one (1)
week's accumulation of refuse. All businesses requiring any combination of four
(4) or more regulation ninety six (96) gallon containers, for weekly service
shall be required to acquire regulation dumpsters for service.
   (8)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit commercial establishments or
private residents from removing their own solid waste or from contracting with
a private collector for such removal.
   (9)   In no event shall public or private dumpsters or roll-off containers
be placed on a public street, right-of-way or public property without express
consent from the director of public works or his designee.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as replaced by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-107. Collection of leaves, lawn clippings, brush, construction debris, and
other debris.
   The following general standards shall apply for the collection of leaves,
lawn clippings, brush, construction debris, and other debris:
   (1)   Residential collection. The city will provide free residential pick up
of leaves, lawn clippings, brush and other debris. Any such material must be
brought to curbside or edge of street. No leaves, brush, or any other debris
shall be left on the street. During the months of March through September
leaves shall be placed in strong durable bags for collection.
   (2)   Commercially generated materials. In no case will it be the
responsibility of the City of Cookeville Department of Public Works to pick up
limbs, tree trunks, or other debris resulting from tree trimming or removal by
a private contractor, or any scrap lumber or other debris resulting from
construction or remodeling work.
   (3)   Construction debris. Construction debris shall be deposited in a
construction roll-off container, or alternative provisions, approved by the
director of the department of public works or his designee, shall be made to
prevent any material from blowing away.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-108. Requirements for private refuse collection.
   All persons, firms or corporations involved in the collection of refuse
shall comply with the following regulations:
   (1)   Collection interval. All refuse (including garbage and rubbish) as
heretofore defined shall be collected on a sufficiently frequent basis to
prevent the occurrence of nuisances and public health problems and at a minimum
interval of at least once in any seven (7) consecutive day period. The
collection of refuse shall be under the jurisdiction of the City of Cookeville
Department of Public Works.
   (2)   Permits. No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business
of collecting refuse or removing the contents of any refuse container (other
than the owner of such containers) for any purpose whatsoever, who does not
possess a permit to do so from the director of the department of public works.
Such permits may be issued only after the applicant's capability of complying
with the requirements of this chapter has been fully determined.
      Such permits may be suspended or revoked upon the violation of any of the
terms of this chapter.
   (3)   Collection vehicles. The collection of refuse shall be by means of
vehicles with beds constructed of impervious materials and easily cleanable and
so constructed that there will be no leakage of liquids draining from the
refuse onto public streets and thoroughfares. Provisions shall be made to
prevent the scattering of refuse over the streets and thoroughfares by
effective coverings or closed truck beds.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-109. Disposal of refuse.
   The disposal of refuse in any quantity by any individual, householder,
establishment, firm, or corporation in any place, public or private, other than
at the site or sites designated by the Cookeville City Council or City Manager
is expressly prohibited. All disposal of refuse shall be by methods approved by
the director of the department of public works or his designee and such methods
shall include the maximum practical, rodent, insect, and nuisance control at
the place of disposal.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-110. Dumping in streams, ditches, storm sewers, and sanitary sewers
prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to dump refuse in
any form into any stream, ditch, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, or other drain
within the City of Cookeville.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-111. Burning of refuse without prior approval prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn or attempt
to burn refuse on private or public property within the corporate limits of the
City of Cookeville without first securing the approval of the Cookeville Fire
Department.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-112. Issuance of citations.
   It shall be the duty of the director of the department of public works or
his designee to issue citations requiring the proper handling of refuse on
private and public premises to owners, occupants, tenants, or lessees of such
properties where violations of this chapter are known to exist and providing
that such violations be corrected within the time specified by the citation.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-113. Violations.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
shall fail or refuse to obey any notice or order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as renumbered by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
17-114. Enforcement and remedies.
   Pursuant to authority by Tennessee Code Annotated, § 6-54-113, the City of
Cookeville Department of Public Works is hereby designated and authorized to
pursue the enforcement provisions and remedies specified in said section of
Tennessee Code Annotated.
(Ord. #001-06-08, Sept. 2001, as added by Ord. #006-10-23, Dec. 2006)
TITLE 18
WATER AND SEWERS 1
1   Municipal code references
   Building, utility and housing codes:
title 12.
   Refuse disposal:
title 17.
   CHAPTER
      
1.   WATER SERVICES ORDINANCE.
      
2.   SEWER USE ORDINANCE.
CHAPTER 1
WATER SERVICES ORDINANCE 2
2   Municipal code reference
   Plumbing code:
title 12, chapter 2.
SECTION
   
18-101.   Definitions.
   
18-102.   Applications for water service.
   
18-103.   Unauthorized water taps.
   
18-104.   Tampering with water facilities, etc.
   
18-105.   Point of delivery for water service; responsibility for installation
and maintenance of facilities.
   
18-106.   Interruption of water service.
   
18-107.   Uses of water causing disturbances to the system.
   
18-108.   Fluoridation of water supply.
   
18-109.   Water main extensions and connections.
   
18-110.   Water connection charges.
   
18-111.   Connections for fire protection.
   
18-112.   Water hydrant and sprinkler charges.
   
18-113.   Cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, etc.
   
18-114.   Access to customer's premises for reading meters, etc.
   
18-115.   Application fees required for water and/or sewer service.
   
18-116.   Application fee exemption.
   
18-117.   Meter tests.
   
18-118.   Adjustment of bills due to leakage or wastage.
   
18-119.   Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   
18-120.   Service charges.
   
18-121.   Water rate schedule.
   
18-122.   Wholesale water rates.
   
18-123.   Applicability of rules and regulations.
   
18-124.   Miscellaneous provisions.
18-101. Definitions.
   (1)   "Auxiliary intake." Any piping connection or other device whereby
water may be secured from a source other than that normally used.
   (2)   "By-pass." Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the water
may be diverted around any part or portion of a water purification plant.
   (3)   "Cross-connection." Any physical connection whereby the public water
supply is connected with any other water supply system, whether public or
private, either inside or outside of any building, in such manner that a flow
of water into the public water supply is possible either through the
manipulation of valves or because of ineffective check or back pressure valves,
or because of any other arrangement.
   (4)   "Customer." A person, firm, or corporation obtaining service from the
Cookeville Department of Water Quality Control.
   (5)   "Department." The City of Cookeville Department of Water Quality
Control.
   (6)   "Director." The Director of the City of Cookeville Department of Water
Quality Control.
   (7)   "Interconnection." Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby
the public water supply is connected directly with a sewer, drain, conduit,
pool, storage reservoir, or other device which does or may contain sewage or
other waste, or liquid which would be capable of importing contamination to the
public water supply.
   (8)   "Person." Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, or association and any municipal or private corporation
organized or existing under the laws of this or any other state or country.
   (9)   "Public water supply." The water works system furnishing water to the
City of Cookeville, Tennessee, for general use and which supply is recognized
as the public water supply by the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation.
   (10)   "Service line." A water line extending from the water main that is
generally serving only one customer.
   (11)   "State." The State of Tennessee.
   (12)   "Tap." A connection or the point of connection to a water main.
   (13)   "Water main." A water line, usually 2 inches or larger, which is the
main supplier of water to an area and to which service lines are connected.
(1970 Code, § 13-101)
18-102. Applications for water service.
   Each prospective customer desiring water service from the Cookeville
Department of Water Quality Control shall make application at the city hall in
Cookeville, Tennessee, stating the type of service desired, size of connection
desired, and that the applicant agrees to comply with all ordinances of the
City of Cookeville regulating water and sewer service. In the event the
applicant is entitled to water service in accordance with the rules and
regulations established by the department, the department shall make necessary
arrangements to furnish these services at the point of delivery hereinafter
defined.
(1970 Code, § 13-102)
18-103. Unauthorized water taps.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
plumbing business to tap or cut any water main, water pipe, or sewer line
belonging to the department, Tennessee, or to tap or cut any water main, water
pipe, or sewer line over which the department exercises control.
(1970 Code, § 13-103)
18-104. Tampering with water facilities, etc.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, or interfere with, the
operation of any water meter through which water is supplied by the department,
or to in any way tamper with or interfere with any of the water facilities of
the city or to make improper connections thereto so as to evade, or attempt to
evade, the payment of lawful service and connection charges to the city.
   Any person tampering with or interfering with the water facilities of the
city shall be presumed to have done so with the intent to evade or attempt to
evade the payment of lawful service and connection charges to the city.
(1970 Code, § 13-104)
18-105. Point of delivery for water service; responsibility for installation
and maintenance of facilities.
   The point of delivery for water service shall be the place, as designated by
the department, on the customer's premises, where water is to be delivered by
the department to the premises. All piping and equipment beyond the point of
delivery must be installed and maintained by the customer. Any and all meters,
valves, connections, or other equipment furnished by the Department shall be
and remain the property of the Department. Each customer must provide a
suitable enclosure for meters larger than 2" and exercise proper care to
protect the property of the Department located on the premises of the customer,
and in the event of loss or damage to property of the Department located on the
customer's premises, arising through wilful action or neglect of the customer,
the said customer shall pay the cost of all repairs or replacements necessary
to repair the damage caused by such willful action or negligence. In the event
the said customer refuses to pay for the said damage, the Department may add
the charge to the monthly utility bill and/or discontinue service. Any and all
connection and disconnection charges incurred as a result thereof, shall be
paid in full prior to service being restored.
(1970 Code, § 13-105)
18-106. Interruption of water service.
   The department will use reasonable diligence to provide a regular and
uninterrupted supply of water, but in case the supply of water should be
interrupted or disturbed for any cause, the department shall not be liable for
damages resulting therefrom.
(1970 Code, § 13-106)
18-107. Uses of water causing disturbances to the system.
   Water service must not be used in such a way as to cause unusual or abnormal
fluctuations or disturbances to the system. In the event of a use by the
customer to cause abnormal or unusual fluctuations or disturbances to the water
supply system the department shall give notice to the customer that the
offending use must cease, or service will be discontinued, and in the event
such use is not discontinued or the customer's consumption is not adjusted so
as to end the unusual or abnormal fluctuations or disturbances to the system,
water service will be discontinued to the customer. (1970 Code, § 13-107)
18-108. Fluoridation of water supply.
   The department by and through its director, is hereby authorized and
instructed to fluoridate its water supply and, to add such chemicals as
fluorine to the water supply in accordance with the Tennessee Department of
Environment and Conservation approval as will adequately provide for the
fluoridation of said water supply.
(1970 Code, § 13-108)
18-109. Water main extensions and connections.
   Developers or property owners desiring to make extensions or additions to
the Cookeville Water System shall obtain approval of plans and specifications
from the department and from the State of Tennessee. The department shall have
the right to specify or approve the size (and type) of pipe to be installed and
to inspect the laying of said pipe and to refuse service if the installation
does not meet the department's specifications.
   Water main extensions inside the city limits not requiring planning
commission approval, shall be limited to 100 feet at the expense of the
department, with the balance of the extension at the expense of the developer
or property owner. If planning commission approval is required, all cost
associated with the water main extension shall be the responsibility of the
developer or property owner.
Water main extension outside the city limits shall be at the expense of the
developer or property owner except for capital improvement projects approved by
the city council.
   All connections to existing mains shall be made by the department with the
developer or customer either furnishing or paying the total cost of all labor,
overhead and material used.
(1970 Code, § 13-109, as amended by Ord. #O12-06-14, June 2012)
18-110. Water connection charges – Effective January 1, 2024.
   (1)   Except as provided in paragraph (4) of this section, those customers
inside the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville shall pay a water
connection fee established at the time of meter installation. The connection
fees are listed below:
   For 5/8" x 3/4" Meter   connection fee   $ 2,500.00
   For 1" Meter      connection fee   $ 3,000.00
   For 2" Meter      connection fee   $ 6,600.00
   Over 2" Meter      connection fee   cost of labor, overhead, and materials
   (2)   Except as provided in paragraph (4) of this section, those customers
outside the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, provided a water main
is adjacent to the property, shall pay a water connection fee established at
the time of meter installation. The connection fees are listed below:
   For 5/8" x 3/4" Meter   connection fee   $2,700.00
   For 1" Meter      connection fee   $3,200.00
   For 2" Meter      connection fee   $ 6,700.00
   Over 2" Meter      connection fee   cost of labor, overhead, and materials
   (3)   For the above connection charge, the department will furnish all
necessary labor and materials to bring water service to the customer's
property, including the meter, meter setter, and meter box for sizes 2" and
under. Customer shall pay for all labor, overhead, and materials for sizes over
2". The entire installation remains the property of the department.
   (4)   Water connection charges withindevelopments where the water system has
been installed at the expense of the developer, including the meter box, meter
setter, and service line to the customers property, shall be $500 for a 5/8" x
3/4" meter, $450 for a 1" meter, and $1,500 for a 2" meter - all inside the
City Limits. Outside the City Limits, an additional cost of $100 per meter
shall be added. The customer shall pay the connection fee established at the
time of meter installation. (1970 Code, § 13-110, as amended by Ord. #000-07-
24, July 2000, and Ord. #004-06-10, July 2004, and Ord. #O12-06-15, June 2012,
and Ord. #O23-11-21, Dec. 2023)
18-111. Connections for fire protection.
   Connections to the city water system for the purpose of providing fire
protection shall be made by the department. The customer shall pay the
department the total cost of materials, labor and overhead to provide the
connection at the customer's property line.
   The estimated cost of making the connection shall be paid prior to the
connection being made. After the actual cost of the connection is determined,
the customer shall be refunded any over-payment they may have made or shall be
billed for any under-payment.
(1970 Code, § 13-111)
18-112. Water hydrant and sprinkler charges.
   A rental charge of sixty-five dollars ($65.00) per year per hydrant, will be
collected from all customers having hydrants located on private property; where
hydrants are used exclusively for fire protection for this property. Water
shall not be used from these hydrants for any purpose other than fire
protection.
   Each customer having a sprinkler system shall be required to pay fifty
dollars ($50.00) per year for up to six hundred (600) sprinkler heads. The
charge for each head in addition to the six hundred (600) shall be five cents
($0.05) per head, per year.
   Failure to pay the annual fire protection charge within sixty (60) days
after being billed, failure to pay any balance due on connection charge within
sixty (60) days after being billed, or use of water for any purpose other than
fire protection shall result in water service to the fire protection system
being discontinued.
(1970 Code, § 13-112)
18-113. Cross-connections, auxiliary intakes, etc.
   (1)   Compliance. The City of Cookeville Department of Water Quality Control
is to comply with Tennessee Code Annotated,§§ 68-221-101 and 68-221-104, as
well as the Rules and Regulations for Public Water Supplies, legally adopted in
accordance with this code, which pertain to cross connections, auxiliary
intakes, bypasses, and inter-connections, and establish and effective, ongoing
program to control these undesirable water uses.
   (2)   Regulated. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a cross-
connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or interconnection to be made; or allow
one to exist for any purpose whatsoever unless the construction and operation
of same have been approved by the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation, and the operation of such cross-connections, auxiliary intake,
by-pass or inter-connection is at all times under the direct supervision of the
director.
   (3)   Statement required. Any person whose premises are supplied with water
from the public water supply, and who also has on the same premises a separate
source of water supply or stores water in a uncovered or unsanitary storage
reservoir from which the water stored therein is circulated through a piping
system, shall file with the director a statement of the non-existence or
unapproved or unauthorized cross-connection, auxiliary intakes, by-passes, or
inter-connections. Such statement shall also contain an agreement that no
cross-connections, auxiliary intake, bypass, or interconnection will be
permitted upon the premises.
   (4)   Inspections. It shall be the duty of the department to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply
where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and reinspections based on the potential health
hazards involved shall be as established by the director and as approved by the
Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation.
   (5)   Right of entry. The director or his authorized representatives shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time, any property served by a
connection to the Cookeville Public Water Supply for the purpose of inspecting
the piping system or systems thereof for cross-connections, auxiliary intakes,
by-passes, or inter-connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (6)   Violations. Any person who now has cross-connections, auxiliary
intakes, bypasses, or inter-connections in violation of the provisions of this
ordinance shall be allowed reasonable time within which to comply with the
provisions of this section. After a through investigation of existing
conditions and an appraisal of the time required to complete the work, the
amount of time shall be designated by the director, but in no case greater than
ninety (90) days. If the violation is not corrected within the allotted time or
there is an imminent threat to the water supply, then the director shall
discontinue the public water supply service at any premises upon which there is
found to be a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or inter-connection,
and service shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary
intake, by-pass, or interconnection has been discontinued.
   (7)   Protective devices. Where the nature of the use of the water supplied
to premises by the department is such that it is deemed:
      (a)   Impractical to provide an effective air-gap separation.
      (b)   That the owner and/or occupant of the premises cannot or is not
willing to demonstrate to the official in charge of the system, or his
designated representative, that the water use and protective features of the
plumbing are such as to propose no threat to the safety or potability of the
water supply.
      (c)   That the nature and the mode of operation within a premise are such
that frequent alterations are made to the plumbing.
      (d)   There is likelihood that protective measures may be subverted,
altered, or disconnected.
   The director, or his designated representative, shall require the use of an
approved protective device on the service line serving the premises to assure
that any contamination that may originate in the customers premises is
contained therein. The protective devices shall be a reduced pressure zone type
backflow preventer approved by the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation as to manufacture, model, and size. The method of installation of
backflow prevention devices shall be approved by the director prior to
installation and shall comply with the criteria set forth by the of Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation. The installation shall be at the
expense of the owner or occupant of the premises.
   The department shall have the right to inspect and test the device or
devices on an annual basis or whenever deemed necessary by the director or his
designated representative. Water service shall not be disrupted to test the
device without the knowledge of the occupant of the premises.
   Where the use of water is critical to the continuance of normal operations
or protection of life, property, or equipment, duplicate units shall be
provided to avoid the necessity of discontinuing water service to test or
repair the protective device or devices. Where only one unit is installed and
the continuance of service is critical, the director shall notify, in writing,
the occupant of the premises of plans to discontinue water service and arrange
for a mutually acceptable time to test and/or repair device. The water system
shall require the occupant of the premises to make all repairs indicated
promptly, and the expense of such repairs shall be borne by the owner or
occupant of the premises. These repairs shall be made by qualified personnel,
acceptable to the director.
   (8)   Unsafe drinking water. The potable water supply made available on the
properties served by the public water system shall be protected from possible
contamination as specified herein. Any water outlet which could be used for
potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system
must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
      Water Unsafe For Drinking
   Minimum acceptable sign shall have black letters one inch (1") high located
on a red background.
   (9)   Penalties. Any person who neglects or refuses to comply with any of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) and
each day of continued violation shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to the foregoing fines and penalties, the director shall discontinue
the public water supply service at any premises upon which there is found to be
a cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass, or inter-connection, and service
shall not be restored until such cross-connection, auxiliary intake, by-pass,
or inter-connection has been discontinued.
   (10)   Parts invalid. Should any part, or parts, of this section be declared
invalid for any reason, no other part, or parts, of this section shall be
affected thereby.
   (11)   Parts in conflict. All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict
with this section shall be hereby repealed; and that this section shall take
affect ten (10) days after adoption of the ordinance comprising this section.
(1970 Code, § 13-113, as replaced by Ord.#07-09-26, Oct. 2007)
18-114. Access to customer's premises for reading meters, etc.
   Identified city employees shall have access to customer's premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters, testing, repairing,
removing, or exchanging any or all equipment belonging to the department and it
shall be the customer's responsibility to keep the meter box uncovered and to
refrain from any action which would interfere with the reading of the meter or
the proper maintenance of the meter by the department.
(1970 Code, § 13-114)
18-115. Application fees required for water and/or sewer service.
   Each residential customer desiring water and/or sewer service from the water
quality control department shall be required to pay a non-refundable
application fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per meter, except when more
than one (1) meter is provided for the convenience of the water quality control
department and the consumption on the separate meters is combined for billing
purposes. All customers, other than residential customers, desiring water
service from the water department shall pay a non-refundable application fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00) per meter, except when more than one meter is provided
for the convenience of the water department. This section does not apply to
applications for temporary service.
(Ord.#002-06-16, June 2002, as amended by Ord.#08-09-19, Sept. 2008)
18-116. Application fee exemption.
   Any City of Cookeville utility ratepayer having utility service for a
minimum ofthree (3) years with no more than three (3) late penalty charges in
any twelve (12) month period and no more than one (1) reconnection charge due
to nonpayment of account; and/or one (1) return check charge in any twelve (12)
month period may be exempt from application fees. Service charges are not
subject to exemption.
(Ord. #002-06-16, June 2002; as amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
18-117. Meter tests.
   The department, at its own expense, will make periodical tests and
inspections of its meters in order to maintain a high standard of accuracy of
said meters. The department will make additional tests or inspections of its
meters at the request of the customer. If tests made at a customer's request
show that the meter is accurate within three percent (3%), either slow or fast,
no adjustment will be made in the customer's bill, and the testing charge of
ten dollars ($10.00) per meter will be paid by the customer, said amount to be
included in the next bill sent to the customer by the department. In case the
test shows the meter to be in excess of three percent (3%), either slow or
fast, an adjustment shall be made in the customer's bill over a period of not
to exceed thirty (30) days prior to the date of such test, and cost of making
the test shall be borne by the department.
(1970 Code, § 13-122)
18-118. Adjustment of bills due to leakage or wastage.
   In the event of a leakage or wastage of water by the improper functioning of
equipment beyond the point of service which results in abnormally high bills
for water and/or sewer service, and upon proper assurance to the department
that said leakage or wastage has been repaired or eliminated, the customer's
bill will be adjusted by an amount to be determined by averaging the bills for
water and sewer service for the three (3) months immediately prior to the
beginning of said leakage by subtracting this amount from the bill for which
adjustment is desired, and adjusting said bill by one-half (1/2) of the result,
provided however, that the adjustment will be made for only one month's bill,
the month to be determined by the customer. If it can be determined that the
nature of the water leak was such that the water could not have gotten into the
sewer system, the sewer bill shall be adjusted to reflect the normal charge for
the period when there is abnormal water usage. Such sewer charge adjustment
shall be made for a period of not to exceed twelve (12) consecutive months and
shall be made only when the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The department is aware, either through customer notification or
internal system monitoring, of abnormal water usage;
   (2)   Application is made within three (3) months of restored normal usage
for an adjustment;
   (3)   After notification to the customer of abnormal usage the customer can
document that reasonable efforts were made to curtail the abnormal usage.
(1970 Code, § 13-123)
18-119. Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   (1)   Issuance of bills. The City of Cookeville shall issue utility bills in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the
city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   (2)   Disconnect of service for unpaid balance. The City of Cookeville shall
disconnect utility accounts for an unpaid or past due balance in accordance
with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the city
manager and in effect at the time the account is being processed for
disconnect.
(1970 Code, § 13-124, as replaced by Ord. #004-10-19, Oct. 2004)
18-120. Service charges.
   (1)   Connection charge. A service charge of twenty dollars ($20) shall be
collected for each service connection. Any request for service received after
2:00 P.M. will be processed the next business day.
   (2)   (Reserved)
   (3)   Reconnection charge due to nonpayment of account. When service has
been disconnected by the water quality control department for nonpayment of
account, a service charge of forty dollars ($40) shall be collected to restore
service. Effective January 1, 2021, service will only be restored during normal
business hours if the service was disconnected for nonpayment of account.
   (4)   Returned checks. A twenty dollar ($20) service charge (for all
utilities or a single service) will be charged for each check returned by the
bank or e-check processor unpaid. If it is determined by the finance director
that the returned check was caused by bank error then the twenty dollar ($20)
service charge shall be waived. (Ord. #002-06-16, June 2002; as amended by Ord.
#O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
18-121. Water rate schedule.
   Effective July 1, 2024–Rates for users of water within the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $10.10 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $4.88 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2024–Rates for users of water outside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $15.15 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $7.32 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2025–Rates for users of water inside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $11.10 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $5.09 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2025–Rates for users of water outside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $16.65 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $7.64 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2026–Rates for users of water inside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $12.10 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $5.09 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2026–Rates for users of water outside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $18.15 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $7.64 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2027–Rates for users of water inside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $13.10 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $5.09 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2027–Rates for users of water outside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $19.65 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $7.64 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2028–Rates for users of water inside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $14.10 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $5.09 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2028–Rates for users of water outside the corporate limits
of the City of Cookeville shall be as follows:
Zero usage (base charge)               $21.15 minimum bill
All gallons over zero usage            $7.64 per 1,000 gallons
   Water storage rate effective July 1, 2009–Water storage rate for users of
water within and outside the corporate limits of the City of Cookeville shall
be as follows:
Each 1,000 gallons per month            $0.19 per 1,000 gallons
The cities of Baxter and Algood, and all utility districts shall pay rates as
established by contract with the City of Cookeville (see section 13-126).
The rates listed above are net. Bills will be rendered monthly in accordance
with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Policies approved by the city
manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill. (1970
Code, § 13-126, as amended by Ord. #000-07-04, July 2000, Ord. #003-06-16, July
2003, Ord. #004-06-09, July 2004, Ord. #007-06-17, June 2007, Ord. #08-06-10,
June 2008, Ord. #09-06-12, June 2009, Ord. #009-08-14, Aug. 2009, Ord. #013-08-
14, Sept. 2013, Ord #O19-03-01, March 2019, Ord. #O20-04-06, April 2020, and
Ord. #O24-05-13, June, 2024)
18-122. Wholesale water rates.
   The price for water to utility districts and municipalities shall be the
price specified in a written contract between the department and the utility
district or municipality. Any water taken in excess of the quantity specified
in the contract shall be billed at the then effective outside rate applicable
to all outside customers, provided however, the city may, at its discretion,
adjust all or any part of this over-run charge if the over-run was caused by a
verifiable line break.
(1970 Code, § 13-127)
18-123. Applicability of rules and regulations.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all customers receiving water
and/or sewer service from the department whether the service is based upon
contract, agreement, signed application or otherwise. The rules and regulations
set forth in this chapter shall be and are a part of each and every agreement,
contract, or arrangement whereby water and/or sewer service is furnished to
customers by the department, and all customers are required to be governed by
the rules and regulations as herein set out. A copy of these provisions shall
be kept open to inspection at the office of the City Clerk of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
(1970 Code, § 13-128)
18-124. Miscellaneous provisions.
   (1)   Rules and regulations. The city is authorized to make, promulgate,
alter, amend, or repeal such rules and regulations as are reasonably necessary
to control the use of the Cookeville Water System. The violation of any such
rules and regulations shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (2)   Severability. If any provision, paragraph, word, article or section of
this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions, paragraphs, words, sections and chapters shall not be
affected and shall continue in full force and effect.
   (3)   Conflict. All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances
inconsistent or conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
   (4)   Effective date. This chapter shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage, approval and publication, as provided by law.1
(1970 Code, § 13-129)
1   This chapter was taken from Ord. #094-05-12 which passed second reading
June 2, 1994.
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE ORDINANCE
SECTION
   
18-201.   Purpose and policy.
   
18-202.   Scope and applicability.
   
18-203.   Definitions and abbreviations.
   
18-204.   General regulations.
   
18-205.   Domestic use requirements.
   
18-206.   Industrial and commercial use requirements.
   
18-207.   Charges and fees.
   
18-208.   Administration.
   
18-209.   Private sewage disposal and holding tank wastes.
   
18-210.   Sewer construction and connection.
   
18-211.   Enforcement.
   
18-212.   Miscellaneous provisions.
18-201. Purpose and policy.
   This chapter sets uniform requirements for discharges into the wastewater
collection and treatment system and enables the City of Cookeville to comply
with the administrative provisions of the Clean Water Act, PL 92-500, and the
applicable effluent limitations, national standards of performance, toxic and
pretreatment effluent standards, and any other discharge criteria which are
required or authorized by state or federal law, and to derive the maximum
public benefit by regulating the quality and quantity of wastewater discharged
into the Cookeville Sewer System. This chapter provides a means for determining
wastewater volumes, constituents and characteristics, and the issuance of
permits to certain users, in order to:
   (1)   Prohibit and/or regulate the contribution of wastewater which may
cause operational or maintenance difficulties or deterioration of the sewers,
force mains, pumping stations and other structures appurtenant to the
wastewater treatment system as hereinafter defined;
   (2)   Establish control of the contribution of wastewater which requires
greater treatment expenditures that are required for equal volumes of normal
domestic waste;
   (3)   Establish pretreatment requirements for industrial waste before
discharge to public sewers as required in 40 C.F.R., Part 403, as amended;
   (4)   Establish a uniform procedure for design, installation, inspection,
operation and maintenance of private wastewater treatment and disposal systems,
extension of public sewer systems, laterals and connections to sewer mains.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-202. Scope and applicability.
   This chapter shall be deemed part of all residential, commercial,
industrial, and public contracts for receiving wastewater collection and
treatment services from the city and shall apply to all service received
whether the service is based upon contract, agreement, signed application, or
other mutual understanding. All customers are required to be governed by the
rules and regulations as herein set out. A copy of these provisions shall be
kept open to inspection at the office of the City Clerk of Cookeville,
Tennessee.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-203. Definitions and abbreviations.
   (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter and unless the context
specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms shall have the following
meanings.
      (a)   "The Act" means the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.
      (b)   "Approval Authority." The Tennessee Division of Water Resources
Director or his/her representative(s).
      (c)   "Authorized representative." An authorized representative of an
industrial user may be:
         (i)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (ii)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively;
         (iii)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above, if such a representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates. The authorization must
be made in writing by an individual described in subparagraphs (i) or (ii) of
this paragraph, must specify either an individual or position having
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
Industrial discharge originates and/or the overall responsibility for the
environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization must be
submitted to the Control Authority. A new written authorization must be
submitted to the Control Authority when a different individual or position has
responsibility for the overall operation of the facility.
      (d)   "Best Management Practices" or "BMPs" means schedules or
activities, prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to implement the prohibitions listed in Tennessee Rule
0400-40-14-.05 (1)(a) and (2). BMP's also include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage and
leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
      (e)   "BOD, (biochemical oxygen demand)" shall mean the quantity of
oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures (standard methods) in five days at 20 degrees Centigrade
(68° Fahrenheit) expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (f)   "Building drain" shall mean that part of the lowest horizontal
piping of a drainage system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and
other drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the
building sewer, beginning five (5) feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
      (g)   "Building sewer" shall mean the extension from the building drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
      (h)   "Categorical Pretreatment Standards" are limitations on pollutant
discharges to publicly owned treatment works (POTWs), promulgated by EPA in
accordance with Section 307 of the Clean Water Act that apply to specific
process wastewaters of particular industrial categories.
      (i)   "City" shall mean the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
      (j)   "Combined sewer" shall mean a sewer receiving all wastewater
including a surface runoff. Combined sewers, as defined, are prohibited by any
user.
      (k)   "Commercial and industrial use" shall mean all uses with the
exception of domestic use as defined in this chapter.
      (l)   "Compatible pollutant" means BOD, suspended solids, nitrogen,
animal and vegetable oil and grease, pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, and such
additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future specified and
controlled in this city's NPDES permit for its wastewater treatment works where
said works have been designed and used to reduce or remove such pollutants.
      (m)   "Composite sample." A sample consisting of several effluent
portions collected during a 24-hour period. When used in this chapter it shall
mean a sample in which the portions of sample are proportionate to the flow and
combined to form a representative sample.
      (n)   "Connection" shall mean any physical tie or hookup made to a sewer
line owned, operated and maintained by the city.
      (o)   "Connection charge" shall mean that charge levied to defray the
expenditure required to process the application, make the connection, inspect
the sewer lateral and service, and approve the discharge permit.
      (p)   "Control Authority" refers to the City of Cookeville Department of
Water Quality Control and its Director or his authorized representative(s).
      (q)   "Cooling water" shall mean the water used for heat exchange and
discharged from any system of condensation, air conditioning cooling,
refrigeration, or other such system, but which has not been in direct contact
with any polluting material.
      (r)   "Customer" shall mean any person who receives sewer service from
the city under either an express or implied contract requiring such person to
pay the city for such service.
      (s)   "Department of Water Quality Control or Department" shall mean the
Department of Water Quality Control of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee.
      (t)   "Direct discharge." The discharge of treated or untreated
wastewater directly to the waters of the State of Tennessee.
      (u)   "Director" shall mean the Director of the Department of Water
Quality Control for the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, or his authorized
representative.
      (v)   "Domestic use" of the facilities of the wastewater system shall be
defined and limited to single family, multi-family, apartment or other dwelling
unit or dwelling unit equivalent containing sanitary facilities for the
disposal of domestic wastewater and used for residential purposes only.
      (w)   "Environmental Protection Agency " or "EPA" means the Environmental
Protection Agency, an agency of the United States. Where appropriate the term
may also be used as a designation for the Administrator or other duly
authorized officials of said agency.
      (x)   "Extra strength wastewater" shall be defined as any wastewater that
has any characteristic or combination of characteristics exceeding the
characteristics of normal domestic wastewater and that require effort or
expenditure over and above that required for treatment of normal domestic
wastewater.
      (y)   "Garbage" shall mean solid wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage,
and sale of produce.
      (z)   "Grab sample." An individual sample collected over a period of time
not exceeding 15 minutes.
      (aa)   "Holding tank waste." Any waste from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum pump
tank trucks.
      (bb)   "Incompatible pollutant" means any pollutant which is not a
compatible pollutant as defined in this chapter.
      (cc)   "Indirect discharge." The discharge or the introduction of non-
domestic pollutants from any source regulated under section 307(b) or (c) of
the Act (33 USC 1317), into the POTW, including holding tank wastes.
      (dd)   "Industrial wastes" are the liquid wastes, other than domestic
wastewater, resulting from processes or operations employed in industrial or
commercial establishments.
      (ee)   "Industrial user" means a source of indirect discharge which does
not constitute a discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to
section 402, of the Act.
      (ff)   "Inspector" shall mean the Inspector of the Department of Water
Quality Control of Cookeville, Tennessee.
      (gg)   "Interference" means a discharge which, alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the
POTW, its treatment process or operations, or its sludge processes, use or
disposal, or exceeds the design capacity of the treatment works or the
collections system.
      (hh)   "National Categorical Pretreatment Standard," "Pretreatment
Standard," or "Standard" means any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with section 307 (b) and (c) of the
Federal Clean Water Act, which applies to Industrial Users. This term includes
prohibitive discharge limits established pursuant to Tennessee Rule 0400-40-
14-.05.
      (ii)   "National Prohibitive Discharge Standard or Prohibitive Discharge
Standard." Any regulation developed under the authority of section 307(b) of
the Act and 40 CFR Section 403.5.
      (jj)   "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System or NPDES permit."
A permit issued to a POTW pursuant to section 403 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1342).
      (kk)   "Natural outlet" shall mean any point of discharge into a water
course, pond, ditch, lake, stream, or other body of surface or ground water.
      (ll)   "New source."
         (i)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which is
commenced after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards under
section 307(c) of the Federal Clean Water Act which will be applicable to such
source, if such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that
section, provided that:
            (A)   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located; or
            (B)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            (C)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity, as the existing source should
be considered.
         (ii)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of parts 2 and 3 of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
the existing process or production equipment.
         (iii)   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            (A)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous onsite
construction program:
               1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               2.   Significant site preparation work including cleaning,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
            (B)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purpose
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this paragraph.
      (mm)   "Normal domestic wastewater or normal wastewater" shall contain a
daily average of not more than 300 mg/l of suspended solids; 300 mg/l of BOD5;
800 mg/l of COD; 60 mg/l of TKN; 30 mg/l ammonia nitrogen; 100 mg/l animal and
vegetable oil and grease; and contain only compatible pollutants as defined
above.
      (nn)   "OSHA" refers to the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration.
      (oo)   "Pass-through." means a discharge which exits the POTW into waters
of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase
in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
      (pp)   "Permit or wastewater discharge permit." A permit issued by the
city to an industrial user describing the conditions for discharge into the
POTW, as set forth in this chapter.
      (qq)   "Person, enterprise, establishment, or owner" shall mean any
individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or group using the
Cookeville Sewer System.
      (rr)   "pH" shall mean the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of
hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution. A stabilized pH will be
considered as a pH which does not change beyond the specified limits of 5 to
10.5 when the waste is subjected to aeration.
      (ss)   "Pollutant." Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological
material, radioactive material, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural wastes discharged
into water.
      (tt)   "Pretreatment." The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such a pollutant into the POTW. The
reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological
processes, process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R.
section 403.6(d).
      (uu)   "Pretreatment requirements." Any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment
Standard imposed on an industrial user.
      (vv)   "Properly shredded garbage" shall mean the wastes from the
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
(V2) inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
      (ww)   "Public sewer" shall mean a sewer controlled by the Control
Authority.
      (xx)   "Publicly owned treatment works or POTW." A treatment works as
defined by section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned in this
instance by the city. This definition includes any sewers that convey
wastewater to a treatment works, but does not include pipes, sewers, or other
conveyances not connected to a facility providing treatment. The term also
means the City of Cookeville, a municipality, as defined in section 502 (4) of
the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1362).
      (yy)   "Sanitary sewer" is a sewer intended to receive domestic
wastewater and industrial waste, without the admixture of surface water and
storm water.
      (zz)   "Sanitary wastewater" shall mean wastewater discharging from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, including apartment houses and hotels,
office buildings, factories or institutions, and free from industrial
wastewater, storm and surface water.
      (aaa)   "Sewage" shall mean a combination of the water-carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial
establishments, together with such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be
present.
      (bbb)   "Sewer system" shall mean all facilities for collecting, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater.
      (ccc)   "Sewer" shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying wastewater.
      (ddd)   "Sewer lateral" shall consist of the pipe line extending from any
sewer main of the city to private property.
      (eee)   "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
      (fff)   "SIC" means the standard industrial classification of users based
upon the SIC manual prepared by the Office of Management and Budget.
      (ggg)   "Significant Industrial User." Any industrial or commercial user
of the city's wastewater disposal system who:
         (i)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards,
         (ii)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater), or
         (iii)   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5 percent or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the wastewater
treatment plant, or
         (iv)   Is designated as such by the city on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      (hhh)   "Significant Noncompliance." A violation of one or more of the
following shall constitute significant noncompliance:
         (i)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which sixty-six percent or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits, as
defined by Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-?03(1);
         (ii)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as
those in which thirty-three percent or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product
of the numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous
limits, as defined by Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.03(1) multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants). TRC calculations for pH are not required by this rule.
         (iii)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
as defined by Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.03 (daily maximum, long term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the POTW determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-
through (including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public);
         (iv)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment and has resulted in
the POTW's exercise of its emergency authority under State Pretreatment
Requirements in Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14 under subpart (6)(a)6(ii) of this
rule to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (v)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
         (vi)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
         (vii)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
         (viii)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include
a violation of Best Management Practices, which the POTW determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
      (iii)   "Slug." Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge.
      (jjj)   "Standard methods" shall mean Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater," published by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution
Control Federation. Standard methods used shall be the latest approved methods
recognized in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
      (kkk)   "State." State of Tennessee.
      (lll)   "Storm sewer" or "storm drain" shall mean a pipe or conduit,
ditch or canal which carries storm and surface waters and drainage, cooling
water or other unpolluted water, but excludes wastewater.
      (mmm)   "Suspended solids" shall mean solids that either float on the
surface of or are in suspension in wastewater, and which are measurable as
prescribed by "standard methods" and expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (nnn)   "Unpolluted water or waste" shall mean any water or wastewater
containing no free or emulsified grease or oil; acid or alkali, phenols or
other substances imparting taste and odor in receiving waters, toxic and
poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or solution, and noxious or
odorous gases and/or other polluting materials.
      (ooo)   "User." Any customer who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution of wastewater into POTW.
      (ppp)   "Wastewater" shall mean the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, singular or in
any combination, together with such ground, surface and storm water as may be
present.
      (qqq)   "Wastewater treatment plant" shall mean any arrangement of
devices and structures used for treating wastewater, or, in the case of the
city plant, may also be referred to as POTW (publicly owned treatment works.)
      (rrr)   "Waters of the state." All waters public or private, on or
beneath the surface of the ground, which are contained within, flow through, or
border upon the state or any portion thereof except those bodies of water
confined to and retained within the limits of private property in single
ownership which do not combine or effect a junction with natural surface or
underground waters.
      (sss)   "Wye" shall mean any mechanical connection for a service lateral.
      (ttt)   "SFU or single family unit" means a single family unit is a
single family house or its equivalent based on the volume of wastewater
estimated to be used. A SFU is currently calculated to use 180 gpd.
   Terms not otherwise defined herein shall be as adopted in the latest edition
of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by
the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   (2)   Abbreviations. In this chapter the following abbreviations shall stand
for the following:
      (a)   "BOD" represents Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
      (b)   "CFR" represents Code of Federal Regulations.
      (c)   "COD" represents Chemical Oxygen Demand.
      (d)   "EPA" represents Environmental Protection Agency.
      (e)   "mg/l" represents milligrams per liter which is equivalent to parts
per million.
      (f)   "NH3-N" represents ammonia-nitrogen.
      (g)   "NPDES" represent National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      (h)   "OSHA" represents Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
      (i)   "POTW" represents Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      (j)   "RCRA" represents Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      (k)   "SIC" represents Standard Industrial Code.
      (l)   "SWDA" represents Solid Waste Disposal Act.
      (m)   "TSS" represents Total Suspended Solids.
      (n)   "u/l" represents micrograms per liter which is the equivalent to
parts per billion.
      (o)   "U.S.C." represents United States Code.
(Ord. #17-09-17, October 2017, as amended by Ord. #O22-10-24, November 2022)
18-204. General regulations.
   (1)   Permits required. All users must obtain a permit from the Department
of Water Quality Control prior to connection of sewer service. In addition, all
significant industrial users must obtain a discharge permit prior to discharge
into the POTW.
   (2)   Prohibited discharges. No person shall discharge, deposit, cause,
allow to be discharged or deposited into the POTW anything that causes pass
through or interference or contains the following:
      (a)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
of an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system or at
any point in the system be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading
be more than ten percent (10%) of the Lower Explosive Limit (LEL) of the meter.
Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene,
naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides,
waste streams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F or 60°C using
the test method specified in 40 CFR 261.21, and any other substances which the
City, State or EPA has notified the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the
system.
      (b)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW, such as, but
not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch (½")
in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshing's, entrails, whole blood or feathers from slaughterhouses, ashes, and
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, strings, cloth, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastics, tar, asphalt residue, petroleum products, mud, or glass
grinding or polishing wastes.
      (c)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.)
released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which will cause interference
at the POTW. No water or wastes shall be discharged to the public sewer in
"slugs" so that the flow rate or concentration of pollutants causes
sufficiently sudden changes in the wastewater as it arrives at the wastewater
treatment plant to interfere with proper operation.
      (d)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by the appropriate
authority having control over their use and which will or may cause damage or
hazards to the sewerage facilities or personnel operating the system.
      (e)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage which will
increase the hydraulic load on the treatment system. Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated storm sewers, or to a natural outlet. Approval from the State may be
required to discharge to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
      (f)   Any wastewater causing discoloration of the POTW effluent such as,
but not limited to, dye wastes or vegetable tanning solutions, in sufficient
quantity to cause such discoloration of the POTW effluent.
      (g)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through at the POTW,
and any oil and grease that results in separation and adherence to POTW
structures and appurtenances in excess of normal domestic wastewater.
      (h)   Discharges which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case, discharges with a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 10.5.
      (i)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singularly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitations set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard. Toxic
pollutants shall include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified
pursuant to Section 307(a) of the act.
      (j)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singularly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a
public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
      (k)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludge's or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use
or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under Section 405 of
the Act, any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used.
      (l)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
state permit or the receiving water quality standard.
      (m)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
60°C (140°F) or causes the influent to the wastewater treatment plant to exceed
40°C (104°F).
      (n)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in at quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
      (o)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      (p)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except properly permitted
discharges at points designated by the POTW.
   (3)   Restricted discharges. (a) No person or user shall discharge
wastewater which exceeds the following concentrations unless an exception is
permitted as provided in this chapter. Dilution of any wastewater discharge for
the purpose of satisfying these requirements shall be considered a violation of
this chapter.
Parameter Monthly Average* Concentration (mg/L)
Parameter Monthly Average* Concentration (mg/L)
Copper    5.0
Chromium  5.4
Nickel    4.7
Cadmium   0.18
Lead      1.87
Mercury   0.0007
Silver    1.16
Zinc      5.0
Cyanide   0.34
Toluene   4.19
 
*Based upon 24-hour flow-proportionate composite samples.
Parameter Monthly Average* Concentration (mg/L)
Parameter                 Monthly Average* Concentration (mg/L)
Benzene                   0.28
1,1,1-Trichlorethane      3.98
Ethylbenzene              0.55
Carbon Tetrachloride      1.98
Chloroform                5.11
Tetrachloroethylene       2.5
Trichloroethylene         1.8
1,2 Transdichloroethylene 0.21
Methylene Chloride        2.63
Phenols, Total            5.0
Naphthalene               0.21
Total Phthalates          6.0
 
Total Phthalates is the sum of Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, Butyl
Benzylphthalate, Di-N-butylphthalate and Diethylphthalate.
*Based on composite or grab samples as required in 40 CFR 136.
      (b)   No person or user shall discharge any waters or wastes which cause
the wastewater leaving the POTW to exceed any established by the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation.
   (4)   Categorical Pretreatment Standards. Upon the promulgation of federal
categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the
federal standard, if more stringent than the limitations imposed under this
section for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede the
limitations imposed under this section. The affected user shall come into
compliance with said limitations within the time allotted in the Federal
Categorical Regulation.
   (5)   Limitations on strength. It is the intent of this chapter to regulate
all discharges of compatible wastes in excess of the concentrations shown below
based on composite samples:
 
Constituent    Daily Average Concentration (mg/l)
BOD5           300
TSS            300
COD            800
NH3-N          30
TKN            60
Oil and Grease 100
 
   (6)   Exceptions. Nonresidential users of the Cookeville Sewer System may
apply for an exception to the Restricted Discharge limitations listed in
subsection 3(a) of this section. Exceptions can be granted according to the
following guidelines subject to the appeals procedure provided in §
18-211 :
      (a)   All exceptions granted under this paragraph shall be temporary and
subject to revocation at any time by the Control Authority upon a reasonable
notice.
      (b)   The user requesting the exception must demonstrate to the Control
Authority that he is making a concentrated and serious effort to maintain high
standards of operation control and housekeeping levels, etc., so that
discharges to the Cookeville Sewer System are being minimized. If negligence is
found, permits will be subject to termination.
      (c)   The user requesting the exception must demonstrate that compliance
with stated concentration and quantity standards is technically or economically
infeasible and the discharge will not:
         (i)   Interfere with the normal operation of the Cookeville POTW.
         (ii)   Limit the sludge management alternatives available and increase
the cost of providing adequate sludge management.
         (iii)   Pass through the POTW in quantities and/or concentrations that
would cause the POTW to violate its pass-through limits or NPDES permit.
      (d)   The user must agree in writing that, should the discharge cause any
of the occurrences listed in paragraph (c) above, the discharge shall be
immediately discontinued.
      (e)   The user must show that the exception, if granted, will not cause
the discharger to violate any federal pretreatment standards, including
categorical standards if applicable, unless the exception is granted under
provisions of the applicable pretreatment regulations.
      (f)   At such time that the levels of pollutants must be reduced because
of violations of any of the provisions of section 3(b) above, all users shall
be required to reduce their discharge levels by a sufficient amount to meet the
standard being violated. Users shall be required to reduce their discharge
levels in accordance with their contribution to the system.
   (7)   Other restrictions. No statement in this chapter is intended or may be
construed to prohibit the Control Authority from establishing specific
wastewater discharge criteria more restrictive where wastes are determined to
be harmful or destructive to the facilities of the Cookeville Sewer System,
create a public nuisance, cause the discharge of the Cookeville Sewer System to
violate effluent or stream quality standards, or exceed industrial pretreatment
standards for discharge to municipal wastewater treatment system as imposed or
as may be imposed by the State and/or the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (8)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges,
if applicable, shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than the
federal requirements and limitations or the requirements and limitations of
this chapter.
   (9)   Right of revision. The City reserves the right to establish more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed
necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
18-201  of this chapter.
   (10)   Protection from accidental discharge. Each user shall provide
protection from accidental discharge into the sewer of prohibited materials or
other wastes regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the
user's expense. Detailed plans showing the facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the Control Authority for review, and shall be approved
by the Control Authority before construction of the facility.
   The review and approval of such plans and operating procedures will in no
way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as
necessary to provide the protection necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (11)   Prohibition of dilution. No User shall ever increase the use of
process water, or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or
complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a
discharge limitation. The Control Authority may impose mass limitations on
Users who are using dilution to meet applicable Pretreatment Standards or in
other cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   (12)   Prohibition of extraneous water. It shall be unlawful for any
builder, contractor, property owner, or other persons to cause or permit
surface water, storm water, ground water, rain water, street drainage, roof
drainage, basement drainage, subsurface drainage or yard drainage from any
source whatsoever to be emptied into any sanitary sewer, either directly or
indirectly.
   (13)   Prohibition of unpolluted water. Unpolluted water shall not be
discharged through direct or indirect connections to a sewer line unless such
discharge is expressly allowed in the users discharge permit.
   (14)   Other prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit, or permit to be deposited in any sewer or manhole any item or object
which would interfere with the operation of the POTW, including but not limited
to wood, rock, stone, improperly shredded garbage or any other refuse or solid
wastes.
   (15)   Limitations on garbage grinders. Waste from garbage grinders shall
not be discharged into the POTW except where such grinders are installed as a
part of a residential dwelling, unless written approval is obtained from the
Control Authority. Such approval may be revoked at any time by the Control
Authority, if so desired. Such grinders must shred the waste to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in
the POTW sewers. Garbage grinders shall not be used for the grinding of
plastics, paper products, inert materials or garden refuse.
   (16)   Limitations on point of discharge. No person shall discharge any
substance directly into a manhole or other opening in a POTW sewer other than
through an approved building sewer unless he shall have been issued a permit by
the Control Authority. The user shall be required to pay all applicable permit
fees and charges.
   (17)   Private sewage disposal. The disposal of sewage by means other than
the use of the available sanitary sewage system shall be in accordance with
local, county and state law. The disposal of sewage by private disposal systems
for new construction shall be permissible only in those instances where service
from the sanitary sewage system is not available.
   (18)   Carnivals, circuses, and transient groups. Whenever carnivals,
circuses, or other transient groups of persons come within the area of the City
of Cookeville such groups of transients shall provide a sanitary method for
disposal of sewage and human excrete. Failure to provide such sanitary method
of disposal and to make all reasonable changes and corrections proposed by the
Control Authority shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (19)   Tampering with sewer facilities. It shall be unlawful for any person
to tamper or interfere with any of the sewage facilities of the city or to make
improper connections thereto so as to evade, or attempt to evade, the payment
of lawful service and connection charges to the city.
   Any person tampering with or interfering with the sewage facilities of the
city shall be presumed to have done so with the intent to evade or attempt to
evade the payment of lawful service and connection charges to the city.
   (20)   Access to customer's premises. Identified City employees shall have
access to customer's premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
reading meters, testing repairing, removing, or exchanging any or all equipment
belonging to the Department of Water Quality Control.
   Also, the Director, and other duly authorized employees of the Department of
Water Quality Control bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which this city holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   (21)   Interruption of service. The city shall not be liable for any damage
resulting from failure or overflow of any sewer main, service pipes or valve,
or by discontinuance of the operation of its wastewater collection, treatment
and disposal facilities, for repair, extensions, or connections or from the
accidental failure of the wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
facilities from any cause whatsoever. In cases of emergency the City shall have
the right to restrict the use of its wastewater collection, treatment and
disposal facilities in any reasonable manner for the protection of the City and
the Cookeville Sewer System.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-205. Domestic use requirements.
   A formal application for either original or additional service must be made
at the office of the Department of Water Quality Control or other specified
locations, and be duly approved before connection is made. The receipt by the
City of a prospective customer's application for service shall not obligate the
city to render the service. If the service applied for cannot be supplied in
accordance with this section and the city's rules and regulations and general
practice, the connection charge will be refunded in full, and there shall be no
liability of the City to the applicant for such service.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-206. Industrial and commercial use requirements.
   (1)   Permits. Connection permits are required for all commercial and
industrial users. Discharge permits are required for all significant industrial
users.
      (a)   Application. An application for original, additional, or
continuation of service must be made at the office of the Department of Water
Quality Control or other specified locations, and must be dully approved before
connection is made. The application shall be in the prescribed form of the
Department of Water Quality Control. In support of this application, the user
shall submit the following information:
         (i)   Name, address, and SIC number of applicant;
         (ii)   Volume of wastewater to be discharged by category (i.e.,
contact cooling water, non-contact cooling water, process wastes, sanitary
sewage);
         (iii)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including the
presence of any of the pollutants listed under §§
18-204(2) and
18-204(3), and the concentrations, if known, as well as any other pollutants
listed on the application form;
         (iv)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (v)   Average and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any;
         (vi)   A site plan/floor plan drawing to an approximate scale showing
the property, water distribution system and sewer layout, indicating existing
and proposed pretreatment and/or equalization facilities and the location of
all floor drains and connections to the sewer system;
         (vii)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes,
including quantities of all materials on the premises which are, or could be,
discharged; and
         (viii)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Control
Authority to be necessary to evaluate the permit application.
      The receipt by the City of a prospective customer's application for
service shall not obligate the city to render the service. If the service
applied for cannot be supplied in accordance with this chapter, or the city's
rules and regulations and general practice, the application shall be rejected
and there shall be no liability of the City to the applicant for such service.
      The Control Authority will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Control Authority may issue a wastewater discharge permit
subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
      (b)   Confidential information. All information and data on a user
obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit application, permits and
monitoring programs and from inspections shall be available to the public or
any other governmental agency without restriction unless the user specifically
requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Control
Authority that the release of such information would divulge information,
processes, or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the user which would be detrimental to the user's competitive position.
      When requested by the person furnishing the report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available to
governmental agencies as required to administer and enforce the pretreatment
program. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
      (c)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly
subject to all provisions of this chapter and all other regulations, user
charges and fees established by the city. The conditions of wastewater
discharge permits shall be uniformly enforced in accordance with this chapter,
and applicable state and federal regulations. Permit conditions may include the
following:
         (i)   Statement of duration; Permits shall be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed five years. If application for permit renewal has
been made in accordance with the requirements of this section, the existing
permit shall remain in force until a new permit is issued.
         (ii)   Statement that the permit is non-transferable.
         (iii)   Effluent limits. Limits will be based on:
            (A)   Applicable general pretreatment standards,
            (B)   Categorical Pretreatment Standards,
            (C)   Local limits,
            (D)   State and local laws, and
            (E)   Best Management Practices.
         (iv)   Reporting requirements. This includes POTW or self-monitoring,
sampling, reporting, notification and record keeping requirements,
identification of the pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling
frequency, and sample type.
         (v)   Unit charges for violation of limitations on wastewater
strength.
         (vi)   Requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
         (vii)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection
and sampling facilities.
         (viii)   Whenever deemed necessary, such as newly constructed
industries, the Control Authority may require Users to designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the User's compliance with the requirements of this ordinance.
         (ix)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the Control Authority and
allowing access to records by employees of the Department and other authorized
persons. Records shall be available for inspection and copying by the Control
Authority.
         (x)   Requirements for submitting certification statements of data
accuracy.
         (xi)   Requirements for notification to the Control Authority of any
new processes or any substantial changes in the existing process or in the
volume or characteristics of the existing discharge.
         (xii)   The Control Authority may require any User to develop, submit
for approval, and implement such a plan or take such other action that may be
necessary to control Slug Discharges. Alternatively, the Control Authority may
develop such a plan for any User. An accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan shall address, at a minimum, the following:
            (A)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
            (B)   Description of stored chemicals;
            (C)   Procedures for immediately notifying (the Superintendent) of
any accidental or Slug Discharge, as required by §
18-206 of this chapter; and
            (D)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or
Slug Discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
         (xiii)   Requirements to control slug or accidental discharges and for
notification of slug or accidental discharges to the Control Authority.
         (xiv)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements.
         (xv)   Any applicable compliance schedule.
         (xvi)   Other conditions to ensure compliance with this chapter.
      (d)   Permit modification. The terms and conditions of the permit may be
subject to modification and change by the Control Authority during the life of
the permit, as limitations or requirements are modified and changed. The user
shall be informed of any proposed changes in his permit at least thirty (30)
days prior to the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in
the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance as
determined by the Control Authority.
      (e)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a
specific user for a specific operation and shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (2)   Sampling and analytical requirements. Sampling and analysis shall be
conducted in accordance with procedures established by the administrator
pursuant to Section 304(h) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR Part 136 as
amended. All reports of sampling and analysis shall identify the analytical
method used as well as the person's name who conducted the sampling and
analysis.
   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease,
sulfide, and volatile organic compounds. For sampling required in support of
baseline monitoring and 90-day compliance reports, a minimum of four (4) grab
samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide
and volatile organic compounds for facilities for which no historical history
is available. For facilities with historical data available for grab samples,
the POTW may authorize a lower minimum. For all other pollutants, 24-hour
composite samples must be obtained through flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the POTW. Where time-proportional composite sampling is
authorized by the POTW, the samples must be representative of the discharge and
the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented in the
Industrial User's file.
   (3)   Reporting requirements, (a) Permit limit violations. If sampling
performed by an Industrial user indicates a violation, the user shall notify
the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation and shall provide
written notice of the violation within 5 days of becoming aware of the
violation. This written notice shall include an explanation of the cause of the
violation, and steps being taken to correct the violation and prevent future
violations. Such notification shall not relieve the user of liability for any
damage caused to the POTW by the discharge, or from any enforcement action
which may be taken by the city as a result of the violation.
      The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis for the parameter(s)
violated and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the director within
30 days after becoming aware of the violation.
      Reporting requirements for Industrial Users upon effective date of
Categorical Pretreatment Standard-Baseline Report.
      Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical Pretreatment
Standard, or 180 days after the final administrative decision made upon a
category determination submission under Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.06(1)(d),
whichever is later, existing Industrial Users subject to such categorical
Pretreatment Standards and currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge
to a POTW shall be required to submit to the Control Authority a report which
contains the following information listed in subparagraphs (i)-(vii) of this
paragraph. At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, New Sources,
and sources that become Industrial Users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable categorical Standard, shall be required to submit to the Control
Authority a report which contains the information listed in subparagraphs (i)-
(vii) of this paragraph. New Sources shall also be required to include in this
report information on the method of pretreatment the source intends to use to
meet applicable pretreatment standards. New Sources shall give estimates of the
information requested in subparagraphs (iv) and (v) of this paragraph:
         (i)   Identifying Information. The User shall submit name and address
of the facility including the name of the operator and owners.
         (ii)   Permits. The User shall submit a list of any environmental
control permits held by or for the facility.
         (iii)   Description of Operations. The User shall submit a brief
description of the nature, average rate of production, and Standard Industrial
Classification of the operation(s) carried out by such Industrial User. This
description should include a schematic process diagram which indicates points
of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.
         (iv)   Flow Measurement. The User shall submit information showing the
measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW
from regulated process streams and other streams as necessary to allow the use
of the combined waste stream formula of Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.06(5). The
Control Authority may allow for verifiable estimates of these flows where
justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
         (v)   Measurement of Pollutants.
            (A)   The User shall identify the Pretreatment Standards applicable
to each regulated process.
            (B)   In addition, the User shall submit the results of sampling
and analysis identifying the nature and concentration of regulated pollutants
in the discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations. In cases where the Standard required compliance with a BMP or
pollution prevention alternative, the User shall submit documentation as
required by the Control Authority or the applicable Standards to determine
compliance with the Standard.
            (C)   The User shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph.
            (D)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other waste streams are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the User should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined waste stream
formula of Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.06(5) in order to evaluate compliance
with the Pretreatment Standards. Where an alternative concentration has been
calculated in accordance with Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.06(5) this adjusted
limit along with supporting data shall be submitted to the Control Authority.
            (E)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40
CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, or where the Administrator of the EPA determines that
the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures, including procedures suggested by the POTW or other parties,
approved by the Administrator of the EPA.
            (F)   The Control Authority may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
            (G)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place,
of sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (vi)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by an authorized
representative of the Industrial User and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether Pretreatment Standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance and/
or additional pretreatment is required for the Industrial User to meet the
Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. This certification must state that the
information submitted is to the best of the authorized representatives
knowledge and belief to be true, accurate, and complete per Tennessee Rule
0400-40-14-.06(1)(b)2.
         (vii)   Compliance Schedule. If additional Pretreatment and/or
Operation and Maintenance will be required to meet Pretreatment Standards; the
shortest schedule by which the Industrial User will provide such additional
pretreatment or Operation and Maintenance. The completion date established for
the applicable Pretreatment Standard shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable Pretreatment Standard.
      (b)   POTW Sampling of Industrial Users. The POTW will sample in lieu of
the Industrial User. The POTW will work with a lab to ensure all pollutants
within the Industry's permit are sampled according to their permit. The
sampling reports will be forwarded to both the Industrial User and POTW for
review. The POTW has the ultimate control of the sampling requirements,
procedures, and schedule; however, the Industrial User will also evaluate the
sampling reports and sign stating whether the Industrial User is in violation.
The Industrial User is still required to oversee their sampling reports to
ensure their awareness of their discharge parameters in relation to their
Industrial permit and to certify that they are operating within their permit
limits. Control Authority approval is required for an Industrial User to
monitor and schedule its own sampling with a lab.
      (c)   Permit limit violations. If sampling performed by the POTW/
Industrial user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the city within 24
hours of becoming aware of the violation and shall provide written notice of
the violation within 5 days of becoming aware of the violation. This written
notice shall include an explanation of the cause of the violation, and steps
being taken to correct the violation and prevent future violations. Such
notification shall not relieve the user of liability for any damage caused to
the POTW by the discharge, or from any enforcement action which may be taken by
the city as a result of the violation.
      The POTW/Industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis for
the parameter(s) violated and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the
Control Authority within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. Repeat
analysis is not required if:
         (i)   The POTW/User samples the Industrial User at a frequency of at
least once per month, or
         (ii)   The POTW/User performs sampling at the Industry between the
time of initial sampling and the time when the POTW/User receives the results
of this sampling.
      (d)   Schedule. Within 90 days following the date for final compliance
with applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of new
sources, within 90 days of commencement of discharge, any industrial user
subject to the categorical pretreatment standards shall submit to the Control
Authority, a report containing the information described in subparagraphs (2)
(d)-(f) of Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.12. The report shall state whether the
applicable categorical standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary
to bring the user into compliance. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the user, and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether Pretreatment Standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional Operation and Maintenance (O
& M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the Industrial User to meet
the Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
      The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the Industrial User to
meet the applicable categorical Pretreatment Standards. Not later than 14 days
following each date in the schedule and the final date for compliance, the
Industrial User shall submit a progress report to the Control Authority
including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the Industrial User to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between such progress
reports to the Control Authority.
      (e)   Periodic compliance reports. All significant industrial users whose
discharge is monitored, are required to submit to the Control Authority
monitoring reports at the intervals specified in the users permit. The reports
should be received in the office of the Department no later than the 15th day
of the month following the reporting period. This report shall contain the
results of all sampling and analyses, performed in accordance with § 18-206(2),
of the discharge for the reporting period, as well as all flow measurements,
even if the sampling is performed more frequently than required. This report
shall include a statement that the information submitted is to the best of the
authorized representatives knowledge and belief to be true, accurate, and
complete per Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.06(1)(b)2. The report shall be signed
by an authorized representative of the user. Any violations detected during
self-monitoring are subject to the reporting requirements of §
18-206 (3)(c).
      In cases where the Pretreatment Standard requires compliance with a Best
Management Practice (or pollution prevention alternative), the User shall
submit documentation required by the POTW or Pretreatment Standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the User in the same month in which the
compliance/monitoring report is due. These reports must be based on sampling
and analysis performed in accordance with the techniques described in 40 CFR
Part 136 and amendments thereto.
      The Industrial User shall be required to retain for a minimum of 3 years
any Best Management Practice records or records of monitoring activities and
results (whether or not such monitoring activities are required by this rule)
and shall make such records available for inspection and copying by the POTW.
The period of retention shall be extended during the course of any unresolved
litigation regarding the Industrial User or POTW or when requested by the POTW.
      (f)   Notice of discharges. Significant Industrial Users are required to
notify the POTW immediately of any changes to its facility affecting potential
for a slug discharge. Users shall notify the Control Authority immediately upon
accidental discharge or slug discharge in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken to minimize damage to the POTW and the receiving
waters.
      This notification shall be followed within five (5) days of the date of
occurrence by a detailed written statement describing the cause of the
violation and a plan including specific required actions for the satisfactory
correction of the violation and prevention of future violations of the same
nature. Such notification will not relieve users of liability for any expense,
loss, or damage to the sewer system, treatment plant, or treatment process, or
for any penalties or fines imposed on the city on account thereof under state
and federal law.
      (g)   Notice to employees. In order that employees of users be informed
of the City's requirements, users shall make available to their employees
copies of this chapter together with such other wastewater information and
notices which may be furnished by the Control Authority from time to time
directed toward more effective water pollution control. A notice shall be
furnished and permanently posted on the user's bulletin board advising
employees whom to call in case of a violation of this chapter. Employees shall
be informed that immediate reporting of accidental and slug discharges is
required.
      (h)   Discharge of hazardous wastes. All industrial users shall notify
the Control Authority, the Tennessee Department of Environment and
Conservation, Division of Solid Waste Management and the EPA Region IV Waste
Management Division Director in writing of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261 (RCRA). The notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other).
      If the industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste
per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent such information is known and readily
available to the user: An identification of the hazardous constituents
contained in the wastes, an estimate of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and an
estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastewater expected to be
discharged during the following 12 months.
      Notification shall be provided within 180 days of discharge. Notification
need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged; however,
advance notification of substantial change is required.
      Industrial users are exempt from notification requirements if:
         (i)   The pollutants are already monitored and reported under the
user's permit requirements; or
         (ii)   Less than 15 kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes are
discharged within a calendar month.
         If new regulations identify additional characteristics of hazardous
wastes or list new hazardous wastes, notification of the appropriate
authorities by the industrial user is required within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
         If notification is required, the industrial user shall certify that it
has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes
generated to the degree it has determined economically feasible.
         (iii)   Additional sampling. All sampling performed in accordance with
40 CFR part 136, by an industrial user subject to the reporting requirements of
a pretreatment permit shall submit the results for all sampling. This includes
sampling that is done in addition to the required sampling of the users permit.
   (4)   Pretreatment.
      (a)   Criteria for pretreatment. Any wastewater discharge from a
significant industrial user whose discharge violates EPA regulations, any
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or the limitations set out under
§§
18-204 (2) and
18-204 (3) of this chapter shall pretreat at the point of origin in a private
wastewater treatment plant provided, maintained and operated by the owner.
      Any discharge exceeding only the "limitations on strength" provisions of
this chapter (§
18-204(5)) may be pretreated at the point of origin in a private wastewater
treatment plant provided, maintained and operated by the owner, or the user may
pay the applicable surcharge as contained in §
18-207(6).
      (b)   Design and construction. All users who elect or are required to
construct new or additional facilities for pretreatment shall submit at least
two complete sets of plans, specifications, and other pertinent information
relative to the proposed construction to the Control Authority for approval.
Plans and specifications submitted for approval must bear the seal of a
professional engineer registered to practice engineering in the State of
Tennessee. Written approval from the Control Authority must be obtained before
construction of new or additional facilities may begin. The plans,
specifications, and other pertinent information submitted to the city for
approval will be retained as file material for future reference with one
approved copy returned to the user.
      (c)   New pretreatment facilities for existing sources. In the event new
or additional pretreatment facilities for existing sources are required under
the provisions of this chapter, the user shall be issued a compliance schedule
for completion of the facilities. This compliance schedule shall include
milestone deadlines for completion of design, start of construction, completion
of construction, start-up of facilities and full compliance with all
limitations. During the compliance schedule time period, the industrial user
shall submit written progress reports to the Control Authority not less often
than every three months. In the event the user is making a good faith effort to
comply but is prevented from compliance due to circumstances beyond the user's
control, deadlines may be extended by the Control Authority. Time limits
imposed by federal pretreatment regulations shall take precedence over any
compliance schedule issued by the city.
      (d)   Inspection of facilities. A permit for the operation of a new or
existing pretreatment or equalization system shall not be issued until and
unless the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Control
Authority and written approval for operation is issued to the owner by the
Control Authority. The Control Authority shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any state of construction. The applicant for the permit shall notify the
Control Authority when the work is ready for final inspection.
      (e)   Maintenance of facilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
owner to maintain all wastewater treatment or equalization facilities in good
working order at all times. The Department of Water Quality Control must be
notified in writing when pretreatment facilities will not be or are not
operative by reason of equipment malfunction, emergency, routine maintenance,
or any reason whatsoever. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to repair
and maintain all pretreatment facilities on a high priority basis.
   (5)   Monitoring facilities. All significant industrial users shall be
required to install a monitoring facility (a monitoring facility is a manhole
or other suitable facility approved by the Control Authority which includes a
metering device with suitable accommodations for composite sampling). When, in
the judgment of the Control Authority, there is a significant difference in
wastewater constituents and characteristics produced by different operations of
a single user, the Control Authority may require that separate monitoring
facilities be installed for each separate source of discharge.
   Monitoring facilities that are required to be installed shall be constructed
and maintained at the user's expense. The purpose of the facility is to enable
inspection, sampling and flow measurement of wastewaters produced by a user. If
sampling or metering equipment is also required by the Control Authority it
shall be provided and installed at the user's expense. Such sampling equipment
shall be required by the Control Authority only after sampling by the city
establishes the existence of significant variations in concentrations or
constituents of the user's discharge.
   Operation, maintenance, sampling, and testing shall be performed by the
Control Authority at the user's expense. Wastewater samples will be made
available to the industry if requested.
   The monitoring facility will normally be required to be located on the
user's premises outside of the building. The Control Authority may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
monitoring facility to be constructed in the public street right-of-way with
the approval of the public agency having jurisdiction of the right-of-way. The
monitoring facility shall be located, so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
   If the monitoring facility is inside the user's fence, special accommodation
must be made so City personnel can have access without communicating with plant
personnel before entry, such as for surprise sampling visits.
   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring facilities
shall be constructed in accordance with the Control Authority's requirements
and all applicable local agency construction standards and specifications.
When, in the judgment of the Control Authority, an existing user requires a
monitoring facility, the user will be so notified in writing. Construction must
be completed within 180 days following written notification unless an extension
is granted by the Control Authority.
   (6)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors.
      (a)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Control Authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease from food establishments or grease, petroleum,
grit, or other harmful ingredients from any other establishment; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
      (b)   Grease interceptors shall be sized and installed according to the
Fats, Oil, and Grease (FOG) Management Program as it currently exists and
amended in the future. The FOG Management Program is available at the City of
Cookeville Department of Water Quality Control and on the Department's website.
The FOG Program, developed by the Control Authority, may also have requirements
for design specifications for interceptors, acceptable manufactures for "under
sink" interceptors, cleaning frequency, and reporting requirements for
interceptor pumping and/or cleaning.
      (c)   The Control Authority will determine the minimum capacity and
specifications for interceptors for establishments that produce or handle
grease or fluid, grit, or other floatable or settable pollutants not covered by
the FOG Management Program based on the process and flow.
      (d)   When a grease or sand interceptor is required for an existing user,
the user shall be notified in writing by the Control Authority. Grease and sand
interceptors required for existing users shall be installed within 90 days of
notification.
      (e)   Interceptors shall be located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Such interceptors shall be routinely inspected, pumped,
cleaned, and repaired as necessary for proper operation of the interceptor and
in accordance with the City's FOG Management Program by the User at their
expense.
      (f)   Manifests for pumping and hauling the waste from the interceptor
shall be kept on file at the facility for a minimum of 3 years.
      (g)   Facilities that do not pump their interceptor on a routine basis,
causing overflows or blockages within the sanitary sewer collection system,
will be required by the Control Authority to pump said interceptor on a
compliance schedule determined by the Control Authority. Pump manifests shall
be submitted to the Control Authority for a period of time to be determined by
the Control Authority.
   (7)   Inspection. The Control Authority and representatives of the State and
EPA bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   The facilities of any user may be inspected to ascertain whether the
purposes of this chapter are being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the Control Authority as well as representatives of the
State and EPA ready and immediate access at any time to all parts of the
premises for the purpose of inspection or sampling or in the performance of any
of their duties. The Control Authority shall have the right to set up on the
user's property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering
operations.
   If, during an inspection of his facility, the user is found to be in
violation of his discharge permit, then such user shall be financially
responsible and shall pay for any and all damages, including sampling and
analytical costs.
   (8)   Safety. While performing the necessary work on private properties
referred to in the above paragraph, the Control Authority shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the user, and the user
shall be held harmless for injury or death to the Department of Water Quality
Control employees, unless the owner/occupier of the property caused injury,
death or damage.
   (9)   Revocation of permit. Any user who violates any condition of his
permit, this chapter, or any applicable state and federal regulations is
subject to having his permit revoked. Violations which may result in permit
revocation include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (a)   Intentional failure of a user to accurately report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of his discharge;
      (b)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations for
wastewater characteristics;
      (c)   Refusal of access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or,
      (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
   (10)   Waiver for Pollutant Sampling. The POTW may authorize the Industrial
User subject to a categorical Pretreatment Standard to forego sampling of a
pollutant regulated by a categorical Pretreatment Standard if the Industrial
User has demonstrated through sampling and other technical factors that the
pollutant is neither present nor expected to be present in the discharge, or is
present only at background levels from intake water and without any increase in
the pollutant due to activities of the Industrial User. This authorization is
subject to the following conditions:
      (a)   The POTW may authorize a waiver where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
categorical Standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
      (b)   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the Permit, but in no case longer than 5 years. The
Industrial User must submit a new request for the waiver before the waiver can
be granted for each subsequent control mechanism.
      (c)   In making a demonstration that is a pollutant is not present, the
Industrial User must provide data from at least one sampling of the facility's
process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility that is
representative of all wastewater from all processes. The request for the
monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance with subparagraph (a) of this
paragraph, and include the certification statement in Tennessee Rule 0400-40-
14-.06(l)(b)2. Non-detectable sample results may only be used as a
demonstration that a pollutant is not present is the EPA approved method from
40 CFR Part 136 with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was
used in the analysis.
      (d)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the POTW must be included as
a condition in the User's control mechanism. The reason's supporting the waiver
and any information submitted by the User in its request for the waiver must be
maintained by the POTW for 3 years after expiration of the waiver.
      (e)   Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of the User's
control mechanism by the POTW, the Industrial User must certify on each report
with the statement below, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in
its waste stream due to activities of the Industrial User:
      Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR [specify
applicable National Pretreatment Standard part(s)], I certify that, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level of [list
pollutant(s)] in the wastewaters due to the activities at the facility since
filing of the last periodic report under Tennessee Rule 0400-40-14-.12(5)(a).
      (f)   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present based on changes that occur in the User's operations,
the User must immediately; notify the POTW and begin monitoring/reporting for
said pollutant per requirements specified by the specified National
Pretreatment Standard.
      (g)   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in categorical Pretreatment Standards, except as
otherwise specified in the categorical Pretreatment Standard.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-207. Charges and fees.
   (1)   Purpose of charges and fees. A schedule of charges and fees shall be
adopted by the City Council which will enable the Department of Water Quality
Control to comply with the revenue requirements of Section 204 of the Clean
Water Act. Charges and fees shall be determined in a manner consistent with
regulations of the federal grant program to ensure that sufficient revenues are
collected to defray the city's cost of operating and maintaining adequate
wastewater collection and treatment systems and to provide sufficient funds for
capital outlay, bond service costs, capital improvements and depreciation.
   (2)   Classification of user. All users are to be classified by the Control
Authority either by assigning each one to a user classification category
according to the principal activity conducted on the user's premises, by
analyzing each individual user, or by a combination thereof. The purpose of
such collective and/or individual classification is to facilitate the
regulation of wastewater discharges based on wastewater constituents and
characteristics, to provide an effective means of source control, and to
establish a system of charges and fees which will insure an equitable recovery
of the city's cost. Any charges and fees not stated in this chapter shall be as
determined by the City Manager. A schedule of these fees can be obtained at the
City of Cookeville Department of Water Quality Control or on the Department's
website.
   (3)   Type of charges and fees. The charges and fees established by the city
may include, but, not be limited to:
      (a)   User classification charges;
      (b)   Fees for monitoring, maintenance, and analysis;
      (c)   Fees for permit applications;
      (d)   Surcharge fees;
      (e)   Discharge permit fees; including permits for discharging holding
tank waste;
      (f)   Charges and fees based on wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (g)   Fees for garbage grinders;
      (h)   Fees for holding tank wastes;
      (i)   Fees for reimbursement of administrative costs related to the
pretreatment program;
      (j)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge prevention procedures and
construction;
      (k)   Fees for allowing connection of building sewers to the POTW.
      (l)   Fees for plans review and construction inspection.
      (m)   Sewer capacity fee to offset the cost of sewer upgrades related to
growth within the sewer system.
   (4)   Computation and assessments. The computation of and assessment of
surcharges, monitoring charges, maintenance charges and testing or analysis
charges shall be subject to the appeals procedure provided in this chapter.
   (5)   User rates. (a) Basis of determination of rates. Charges and fees for
sewer service are based on normal domestic wastewater with the following
characteristics:
 
BOD5             300 mg/l
COD              800 mg/l
TKN              60 mg/l
NH3-N            30 mg/l
Suspended Solids 300 mg/l
Oil and Grease   100 mg/l
 
   The charges and fees for all wastewaters which exceed the concentrations for
normal domestic wastewater shall be based upon a surcharge as in §
18-207(6).
      (b)   User charge system. The user charge system consists of a flat base
charge based on an equitable distribution of the administrative costs of
providing sewer service to all customers connected to the POTW and to each lot,
parcel of land or premise which may now or hereinafter be located within one
hundred (100) feet of a sanitary sewer owned by the city, plus an equitable
distribution of the cost of operating expenses, debt amortization and
depreciation to all customers connected to the POTW based on water usages as
determined by the water meters owned by the city. A surcharge will be levied
against those users which discharge wastewater that exceeds the strength of
"normal wastewater". The owner or occupant of property obtaining water from a
source or sources other than through a meter of the city and discharging said
water into the POTW shall install, without cost to the city, a meter or meters
to measure the quantity of water received from any such source or sources and
shall pay the same sewer rate or rates as customers utilizing water provided by
the city. No meter shall be installed or used for such purpose without the
approval of the Control Authority. The City may use readings from water meters
owned by other utilities instead of requiring another meter be installed.
      Whenever a property upon which the sewer user charge is imposed uses
water for industrial, commercial or air conditioning purposes and does not
discharge said water into the POTW but, through agreement with the POTW,
discharges it in some other manner, including discharging it into the city's
storm sewer system, the quantity of water used and not discharged into the POTW
shall, be excluded in determining the sewer service charge for said property.
However, the quantity of water used and not discharged into the POTW must be
measured by a device or meter approved by the director and installed by the
owner or occupant without cost to the city.
      (c)   Review of rates. The Department shall review annually in
conjunction with budget evaluations the wastewater contribution of users and
user classes, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the POTW and the
user charge system. The City shall revise the charges for users or user classes
to accomplish the following:
         (i)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among user and user classes as required herein;
         (ii)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance of the
POTW; and,
         (iii)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of user to the
cost of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year
and adjust the rate accordingly.
   (6)   Surcharges for high strength wastewater. A surcharge will be assessed
for waste containing compatible pollutants in concentrations greater than those
for "normal wastewater". The surcharge shall be based on the average analytical
results of not less than two (2) unannounced composite samples collected at the
monitoring manhole during the month. However, a surcharge for holding tank
wastes shall be based on a representative grab sample. Samples shall be
collected and analyzed by Department personnel at the POTW treatment plant, or
by an authorized independent laboratory when required by the Control Authority.
Sample collection and analysis shall be in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136 as
amended.
   The following formula shall be used to determine the amount of the
surcharge:
SURCHARGE = SBOD + SCOD + STSS + STKN + SNH3 + SO&G
      where,
SBOD    = surcharge for BOD
    = MWU * 8.34 * (DC-NC) * $0.15
SCOD    = surcharge for COD
    = MWU * 8.34 * (DC-F1) * $0.05
STSS    = Surcharge for Total Suspended Solids
    = MWU * 8.34 * (DC-NC) * $0.15
STKN    = Surcharge for Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
    = MSB * {'{'}(DC/NC)- 1{'}'}
SNH3    = surcharge for Ammonia Nitrogen
    = MSB * {'{'}(DC/NC) - 1{'}'}
SO&G    = Surcharge for Oil and Grease
    = MSB * {'{'}(DC/NC) - 1{'}'}
   and where,
   F1   = the larger of (DCBOD) * 2.5 or 800 mg/l
   MSB   = Monthly Sewer Bill (dollars)
   MWU = Monthly Water Usage (million gallons)
   DC   = Concentration of the subject parameter discharged (mg/l)
   NC   = Concentration of the subject parameter in "normal wastewater" (mg/l)
Only the parameters determined to be present will be included in a pretreatment
permit and therefore subject to a surcharge. The surcharge shall be added to
the customer's monthly bill.
   (7)   Sampling and analysis. Users who are required by the Control Authority
to have sampling and flow monitoring devices installed (temporary or permanent)
shall be charged to compensate the City for operating and maintaining equipment
and for performing analytical tests on their discharge. The charge will be
assessed in accordance with this chapter.
   (8)   Recovery for damages. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the City of Cookeville for any expense,
loss or damage resulting to the City of Cookeville by reason of such violation
including but not limited to labor and material costs resulting from any
remedial action required by the city, court costs and reasonable attorney's
fees, expert witness expenses, and court reporter fees, or, in addition, any
other penalties, fines, charges or assessments.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017, as amended by Ord. #O22-10-24, November 2022)
18-208. Administration.
   18-208. Administration. (1) Billing and payment policies. Statements of
account for sewer service shall be rendered monthly by the Department of Water
Quality Control. Where the customer obtains both services the two (2) charges
shall be placed on the same bill and will be rendered to the customer together
and the customer shall pay the total bill for both water and sewer service
within fifteen (15) days from the date of the bill at the City Hall,
Cookeville, Tennessee. In the event of failure by the customer to pay the bill
rendered for water and/or sewer, the said customer shall be given at least five
(5) days' notice of intention to discontinue service, said notice to provide
that if the charges for which the customer is delinquent are not paid within
the said period, the Cookeville Department of Water Quality Control will
discontinue water service to said customer. In the event of discontinuance of
water service by the Department by reason or failure to pay either the water or
sewer charge, said service shall not be restored to the customer until any and
all delinquencies for water and sewer service have been paid, together with any
and all connection charges or reconnection charges owed by the customer to the
Department. In the event the service is discontinued for failure to pay the
statements as rendered to the customer, service shall not be restored until
such time as the customer has paid any balance of delinquent account for water
and/or sewer service remaining, together with any or all connection or
reconnection charges.
   (2)   Adjustment of bills. In the event of a leakage or wastage of water by
the improper functioning of equipment beyond the point of service which results
in abnormally high bills for water and/or sewer service, and upon proper
assurance to the Department that said leakage or wastage has been repaired or
eliminated, the customer's bill will be adjusted by an amount to be determined
by averaging the bills for water and sewer service for the three (3) months
immediately prior to the beginning of said leakage by subtracting this amount
from the bill for which adjustment is desired, and adjusting said bill by one-
half (½) of the result, provided however, that the adjustment will be made for
only one month's bill, the month to be determined by the customer. If it can be
determined that the nature of the water leak was such that the water could not
have gotten into the sewer system, the sewer bill shall be adjusted to reflect
the normal charge for the period when there is abnormal water usage. Such sewer
charge adjustment shall be made for a period of not to exceed three (3)
consecutive months and shall be made only when the following conditions are
met:
      (a)   The Department is aware, either through customer notification or
internal system monitoring, of abnormal water usage;
      (b)   Application is made within three (3) months of restored normal
usage for an adjustment; and
      (c)   After notification to the customer of abnormal usage the customer
can document that reasonable efforts were made to curtail the abnormal usage.
      Property owners are able to receive an adjustment, for sewer only, one
time per calendar year for filling their swimming pool in an amount equal to
the volume of the swimming pool as long as the drain line does not connect to
the city's sewer system.
   (3)   Sewer rates. The sewer rate charge for normal domestic wastewater is
based on the wastewater discharge to the Cookeville Sewer System as measured by
the public water supply meter or meters, and/or by any supplementary meter or
meters, necessary to measure the amount of water discharged. Property owners
must purchase an irrigation meter to prevent charges for sewer usage based on
their water consumption through their residential, commercial, or industrial
water meter. If a meter fails to register properly, or if a meter is removed to
be tested or repaired, or if water is received other than through a meter, the
City reserves the right to render an estimated bill based on the best
information available. The Control Authority also reserves the right to require
metering of any water discharged into the sewer system.
   The charges listed below shall be assessed to all users regardless of
whether they are serviced by an individual or a master water meter, or
regardless of whether they are connected to the sewer as long as sewer service
is considered to be available under the conditions set forth in this chapter.
The following rates are net:
   Effective July 1, 2024–Each residence and place of business within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, shall pay the following
rates per 1,000 gallons:
   Zero usage (base charge)               $12.15
   All gallons over zero usage            $6.62 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2025–Each residence and place of business within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, shall pay the following
rates per 1,000 gallons:
   Zero usage (base charge)               $13.15
   All gallons over zero usage            $7.32 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2026–Each residence and place of business within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, shall pay the following
rates per 1,000 gallons:
   Zero usage (base charge)               $14.15
   All gallons over zero usage            $7.82 per 1,000 gallons
   Effective July 1, 2027–Each residence and place of business within the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville, Tennessee, shall pay the following
rates per 1,000 gallons:
   Zero usage (base charge)               $15.15
   All gallons over zero usage            $8.30 per 1,000 gallons
   (4)   Sewer connection charge. Effective March 1, 2023 - Any person desiring
to connect to the municipal sewer system shall submit a valid plumbing permit
issued by the City of Cookeville Codes Department and pay a connection charge
as listed below provided sewer service is available:
   Sewer Connection Fee Chart
               Inside         Outside(1)
Single residence where city   $2,200.00         $4,000.00
installed sewer or cost share projects
Single family lot where      $500.00 until January   N/A
developer installed sewer,    1, 2024, then $1,000
prior to March 1, 2023      after that
Single family lot, including   $1,000.00         $2,000.00
townhouse lots, where developer installed sewer on or after March 1, 2023
Multi-residence, apartments   $1,000/unit plus the   $3,000.00/unit
               capacity fee in
               subsection (5)(b)
Hotels, motels, nursing      $2,200.00 + $600.00   $4,000.00 +
homes            per unit         $1,000.00 per unit
Office buildings, service      $2,200.00 + $600.00    $4,000.00 +
station, garage, retail      per restroom      $1,000.00 per restroom
store, supermarket
Industrial building      $2,200.00 + $600.00   $4,000.00 + $1,000.00
               per restroom +      per restroom +
               $1,800.00/SFU for      $1,800.00 per SFU
               process water      for process water
Restaurants            $3,200.00 for up to      $6,000.00 for up to 20
               20 seats + $60.00/seat   seats + $60.00 per
               above 20         seat above 20
Schools, daycare, public      $2,200.00 + $250.00   $4,000.00 + $250.00
building            per restroom      per restroom
Self-service laundry      $2,200.00 + $250.00   $4,000.00 + $250.00
               per washing machine   per washing machine
Car wash            $2,200.00 + $500.00/   $4,000.00 +$500.00/
               wash bay + 8,000.00   wash bay + 12,000.00
               per automatic wash bay   per automatic wash
                            bay
(1)   No properties outside the City limits can be served without City Council
approval.
   Any sewer connections not listed above shall be computed on an individual
basis as deemed necessary by the City of Cookeville. Sewer service shall be
considered to be available if a sewer line is within one hundred (100) feet of
the customer's property and the living quarters of a residence or the work
areas of a commercial or industrial building can be connected. If sewer is
available, upon payment of the above charges the Department shall provide a
sewer connection at the customer's property line - the point of connection to
be determined by the Department. If sewer service is not considered available,
the cost to extend sewer to the property shall be paid by the customer.
   No sewer main or lateral shall serve property outside the City limits of
Cookeville unless approved by the City Council. Any cost of extending the sewer
main shall be paid by the customer, except for capital improvement or cost-
sharing projects approved by the City Council.
   Upon recommendation of the Director, and conditioned upon the availability
of departmental funds, the City Council may approve a cost-sharing agreement
with the customer to extend a sanitary sewer main. The agreement shall apply
only to that section of the sanitary sewer main constructed between the
existing sanitary sewer main and a point on the customer's property approved by
the Director. The sanitary sewer main extension must comply with the
Department's master sewer plan, or the Control Authority must approve the
proposed location of the extension. The Director shall contract for the payment
by the city of its share of the project costs upon such terms and conditions as
the Director deems appropriate.
   In subdivisions or developments, where the sewer main has been extended
through a cost-sharing agreement, approved by the City Council, the connection
charge shall be the full price as noted in §
18-208(4) of the city code.
   Capacity for any new development shall be requested in accordance with the
City's Capacity Assurance Program (CAP). Based on an evaluation of the CAP
Sewer Service Availability Request, the Control Authority may approve or deny a
customer's request for sewer service.
   If any customer desiring to connect to the sanitary sewer system, by means
of new construction, shall fail to connect within one (1) year of paying the
sewer connection charge, and the connection charge has increased, the customer
shall pay the increased cost.
   (5)   Sewer Capacity Fees.
      (a)   Capacity Fees for Subdivisions. Effective March 1, 2023 - The
developer for any new subdivision shall pay a sewer capacity fee for any
additional lot created that is intended to be connected to sanitary sewer as
part of the development. The sewer capacity fee is $1,000.00 per lot. If the
subdivision does not require a preliminary plat the developer must pay the
capacity fee prior to the final plat being signed by the Department. For all
other plats, the developer must pay the capacity fee prior to the
preconstruction conference.
      If the developer has not reached final plat approval and is required to
resubmit the plat, and the capacity fee has increased, he shall pay the City an
additional fee for the increase.
      In implementing this section, if a development has already had its
preconstruction conference prior to the effective date of this section a
capacity fee would not be paid except for cases where the development's plat
expires after the effective date of this section, and new plat must be
submitted.
      (b)   Capacity fees for apartments. Any builder building apartments shall
pay a capacity fee at the time the sewer tap fee is paid. For normal
apartments, the capacity fee is $1,000.00 per unit. For co-living apartments,
the capacity fee shall be $1,500.00 per unit.
      (c)   Non-transferable. Any capacity fee paid is for the parcel(s)
designated and can not be transferred to any other property.
   (6)   Holding tank waste dischargers. Private contractors dumping septic
tank waste into the wastewater treatment plant shall pay a charge of $25.00 per
1,000 gallons or portions thereof to the city.
   Persons dumping other holding tank waste must provide an analysis and pay a
charge of $25.00 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof plus any applicable
surcharge as contained in § 18-207.
   (7)   Other charges. (a) Termination of service. Whenever service has been
discontinued by the Department for any reason set forth in this chapter, or a
trip is made for the purpose of discontinuing service for any such reasons, a
charge of ten dollars ($10.00) will be assessed.
      (b)   Restoration of service. Whenever service has been discontinued by
the Department for any reason set forth in this chapter a charge will be
assessed to restore service. This charge will be ten dollars ($10.00) for those
trips made before 2:00 p.m., and will be twenty dollars ($20.00) for those
trips made after 2:00 p.m. (Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017, and Ord. #O19-03-01,
March 2019, as amended by Ord. #O22-10-24, November 2022, and by Ord. #O24-05-
13, June 2024)
18-209. Private sewage disposal and holding tank wastes.
   (1)   Permit requirement. No person, firm, association, or corporation shall
clean out, drain or flush any septic tank or any other type of wastewater or
excreta disposal system into the POTW unless such person, firm, association or
corporation obtains a permit from the Control Authority to perform such acts or
services. Any person, firm, association or corporation desiring a permit to
perform such acts or services shall file an application on the prescribed form.
Upon any such application, said permit shall be issued by the Control Authority
when the appropriate fees have been paid and conditions of this chapter have
been met, providing the Control Authority is satisfied the applicant has
adequate and proper equipment to perform the services contemplated in a safe
and competent manner.
   (2)   Designated disposal location. Septic tank and holding tank waste shall
not be introduced into any manhole, sewer line, or any other part of the sewer
system except at the wastewater treatment plant and only during normal working
hours at the treatment plant unless otherwise directed by the Cookeville
Department of Water Quality Control.
   Before any holding tank waste is discharged a full disclosure of the waste
constituents must be made. All required testing of the waste shall be paid for
by the hauler.
   (3)   Revocation of permit. Failure to comply with all the provisions of
this chapter shall be sufficient cause for the revocation of such permit by the
Control Authority: The possession within the City limits of Cookeville by any
person of any motor vehicle equipped with a body type and accessories of a
nature and design capable of serving as a septic tank or wastewater or excreta
disposal system cleaning unit shall be prima facie evidence that such person is
engaged in the business of cleaning, draining, or flushing septic tanks or
other wastewater or excreta disposal systems within the City limits of
Cookeville.
   (4)   Fees. For each permit issued under the provisions of this Chapter a
service charge shall be paid to the Control Authority. Any such permit granted
shall be for one full calendar year or a fraction of the calendar year, and
shall continue in full force and effect from the time issued until the ending
of the calendar year unless sooner revoked, and shall be non-transferable. The
number of the permit granted here in under shall be plainly painted on each
side of each motor vehicle used in the conduct of the business permitted
hereunder.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-210. Sewer construction and connection.
   (1)   Building sewers. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the Control
Authority.
   The owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by
the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of
the Control Authority.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and/or test by the Control Authority, to meet
all requirements of this chapter.
   The customer shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of all
sewer facilities installed on private property. A clean-out shall be installed
at the property line at the point of connection to the sewer lateral, per the
Control Authority's sewer clean-out detail available through the Control
Authority's office. Maintenance of private sewer lines with no clean-out at the
point the sewer line leaves private property and is laid on a public right-of-
way, shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer or shall be disposed of in a private disposal
system in accordance with local, county, or state law.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, area way drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the City. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Control Authority before installation.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the building
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
building inspector or his representative.
   The city shall not be responsible for damage due to sewer back-up such as
main line broken, surcharge, etc., unless damage is caused by negligence on the
part of the Department.
   (2)   Public sewer specifications. The Control Authority shall establish the
city's specifications for construction of public sewers in conformance with the
rules and regulations for construction of public sewers as may be imposed by
the State and/or the United States Environmental Protection Agency. These
specifications may be modified by the Control Authority as the need arises.
   Developers desiring to make extensions or additions to the Cookeville Sewer
System shall obtain approval of plans and specifications from the Cookeville
Department of Water Quality Control and the State. All public sewers connected
to the Cookeville Sewer System shall be constructed in accordance with the
City's specifications. The Department shall have the right to specify the size
and type of pipe to be installed and to inspect the laying of said pipe and to
refuse service if the installation is not made in accordance with acceptable
construction practices.
   (3)   Safety. All excavations for sewer installation shall comply with all
applicable OSHA standards so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-211. Enforcement.
   (1)   Enforcement guide. Whenever the Control Authority finds that a
violation of any provision of this chapter or any prohibition, limitation or
requirement contained in this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or any
order issued hereunder has occurred, the Control Authority will initiate the
appropriate enforcement response as provided in the Department's Enforcement
Response Guide. The Enforcement Response Guide includes specific penalties for
violations as determined appropriate by the Control Authority.
   (2)   Notification of violation. Whenever the Control Authority finds that
any user has violated or is violating provisions of this chapter, a wastewater
discharge permit or order issued hereunder, the Control Authority may serve
upon said User written notice of the violation. Notice may be served on the
owner, user, and/or permit holder by certified mail, return receipt requested,
or any other means of communication that the city has available to notify the
party of said violation and the need for corrective action. Within five (5)
days of the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a
plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation and prevention of future
violations, including specific required actions, shall be submitted to the
Control Authority. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (3)   Administrative orders. Whenever the Control Authority finds that a
violation of any provision of this chapter or any prohibition, limitation or
requirement contained in this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or any
order issued hereunder has occurred, the Control Authority may issue an
administrative order to direct users not complying with such prohibitions,
limits, requirements, or provisions to take any or all of the following
measures:
      (a)   Comply forthwith or in accordance with a time schedule set forth by
the Control Authority;
      (b)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
threatened violation;
      (c)   Surrender his applicable user's permit if ordered to do so after a
show cause hearing;
      (d)   Pay a civil penalty and/or damages; and/or,
      (e)   Such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of
pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and management practices.
   (4)   Cease and desist order. When the Control Authority finds that a
discharge of wastewater has taken place in violation of prohibitions or
limitations of this chapter or the provisions of a wastewater discharge permit,
the Control Authority may issue an order to cease and desist, and direct the
user to comply forthwith within a specified time schedule, or to take
appropriate remedial or preventative action in the event of a threatened
violation.
   (5)   Injunction. Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter, a discharge permit or order, the Control Authority
may petition the Chancery Court for the issuance of a preliminary or permanent
injunction, or both, as may be appropriate in restraining the continuance of
such discharge.
   (6)   Termination of service. Termination of service for failing to pay the
monthly sewer bill shall be handled in accordance with §
18-208 (1). All other violations for which termination of service is deemed
necessary shall be administered according to this section.
   Violation of the user's application or agreement for service and failure of
payment of any obligation due to the city shall be termed grounds for
termination of service. Prior to termination of service for violation of the
application or agreement or nonpayment, the Control Authority shall notify, in
writing, the owner and/or tenant, if any, that service is intended to be so
terminated and afford the owner and/or tenant the opportunity to request a
hearing thereon if such request is made in writing within five (5) days of
receipt of notice. However, in the event of an emergency that, in the opinion
of the Control Authority, threatens harm to the facilities or endangers the
public's health, the Control Authority may immediately take action to terminate
service to the property.
   The Control Authority may immediately suspend sewer service and/or a
wastewater discharge permit when such suspension is necessary, in the opinion
of the Control Authority, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the
health or welfare of persons or to the environment, causes or may cause
interference at the POTW or causes or may cause the City to violate any
conditions of its NPDES permit.
   Any person notified of an emergency suspension of sewer service and/or a
wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the discharge.
In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the emergency
suspension order, the Control Authority shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate disconnection of water service or severance of
the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW or endangerment
to any individuals. A hearing shall be held by the Control Authority within
twenty-four (24) hours of an emergency disconnection order to allow the user an
opportunity to demonstrate to the Control Authority that the emergency
situation has been abated or corrected and that the danger to the facilities or
public health no longer exists. The Control Authority shall reinstate sewer
service and/or the wastewater discharge permit upon proof of the elimination of
the noncomplying discharge. A detailed written statement submitted by the user
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any further occurrence shall be submitted to the Control Authority
within five (5) days of the date of occurrence.
   Such right to discontinue service shall apply to all service received
through a single tap or service, even though more than one customer or tenant
is furnished service therefrom, and even though the delinquency or violation is
limited to only one such customer or tenant. Discontinuance of service by the
Control Authority for any cause stated in this chapter shall not release the
customer from liability for service already received or from liability for
payments that thereafter become due under the minimum bill provisions or other
provisions of the customer's agreement.
   (7)   Legal action. Upon any indication of a lack of response to a duly
issued enforcement action, the matter will be referred to the city attorney for
appropriate legal action.
   (8)   Fines and Penalties. Each and every day in which a violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Any fine or penalty provided for
in this chapter shall be in addition to damages to which the city may be
entitled, pursuant to other provisions of this chapter and as may otherwise be
provided by law.
      (a)   Civil penalties. Any person or user who violates any provision of
this chapter requirements or conditions set forth in permits duly issued, or
who discharges wastewater which causes pollution or violates any order,
prohibition, effluent limitation, national standard of performance,
pretreatment or toxicity standard, shall be subject to the penalties and
procedures provided for in "The Tennessee Water Quality Control Act of 1977",
Tennessee Code Annotated, §§ 69-3-101 through 129 as amended. The Control
Authority may levy penalties of up to $10,000 per day for each violation. The
Enforcement Response Guide shall be used when administering penalties.
      (b)   Criminal penalties. Any person who willfully or negligently
violates any provision of this chapter or any orders or permits issued
hereunder shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
(penalty) of fifty ($50) dollars per violation per day.
      (c)   Falsifying of information. Any person or user who knowingly makes
any false statements, representation, record, report, plan or other document
filed with the Control Authority or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly
renders inaccurate any monitoring device required under this chapter is hereby
declared to be in violation of this code section and subject to the civil and/
or criminal liabilities.
   (9)   Failure to comply. The issuance of a notice of violation,
administrative order, or compliance schedule shall not relieve the recipient of
any penalties or fines that result from failure to comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (10)   Notification to public. The Control Authority shall publish annually,
in a newspaper of general circulation that provides meaningful public notice
within the jurisdictions served by (the POTW), a list of the Users which, at
any time during the previous twelve (12) months, were in Significant
Noncompliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
   (11)   Preventive measures. Any direct or indirect connection or entry point
for persistent or deleterious wastes to the user's plumbing or drainage system
shall be eliminated if deemed necessary by the Control Authority.
   (12)   Correction of violation. In order to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, the Control Authority, shall have the authority to correct any
violation hereof. The cost of such correction shall be added to any sewer
service charge payable by the user violating this chapter or the owner and/or
tenant of the property upon which the violation occurred, and the City of
Cookeville shall have such remedies for the collection of such costs as it has
for the collection of sewer service charges.
   (13)   Damages to facilities. When a discharge of wastes causes an
obstruction, damage, or any other impairment to the POTW facilities, the
Control Authority shall assess a charge against the user for the work required
to clean or repair the facility and add such charge to the user's sewer service
charge.
   (14)   Compliance schedules. When the Control Authority finds that a
discharge of wastewater is, or has been, taking place in violation of
prohibitions or limitations prescribed in this chapter or the wastewater
discharge permit requirements, or otherwise finds a violation of this chapter,
the Control Authority may require the user to submit for approval, with such
modifications as it deems necessary, a detailed time schedule of specific
actions which the user shall take in order to prevent or correct a violation of
requirements.
   (15)   Hearings/appeals.
      (a)   Appeals board.
         (i)   Members. The City Council shall appoint a five member board to
be known as the Sewer Regulations Appeals Board. Members shall be appointed for
three year terms; however, the terms of the initial board members shall be as
follows: one member for one year; two members for two years; and two members
for three years. All members appointed to fill expired terms shall serve for
three consecutive years thereafter, and no member of the Sewer Regulations
Appeal Board shall serve more than two full, three-year terms without a one-
year break. A member whose term has expired shall continue to serve until his
or her successor is appointed in the manner as herein provided. In the event of
death or resignation of a board member prior to expiration of his or her term,
a successor shall be appointed for the unexpired term in the same manner as the
deceased or retiring board member was appointed, and shall take office upon
appointment. Such successor board member shall be eligible for re-appointment
to two full terms. A chairman and vice chairman of the board shall be elected
by majority vote of the sewer regulations appeals board. The Director or his
designee shall serve as the secretary to the Sewer Regulations Appeals Board.
         (ii)   Powers of the board. The appeals board shall have the following
powers:
            (A)   To conduct hearings on appeals of decisions of the Director
in actions taken under and pursuant to this chapter.
            (B)   To issue subpoenas requiring attendance and testimony of
witnesses and production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in
hearings before the board. This power may be exercised by the board on its own
initiative or upon application of the parties.
            (C)   To administer oaths. The chairman, vice-chairman or chairman
pro tern shall be authorized to administer oaths. All testimony before the
board shall be under oath.
            (D)   To prescribe such rules and regulations for the convening of
the board, the conduct of hearings and all matters pertaining to and in
furtherance of the authority and power herein granted.
            (E)   To review actions or decisions, other than the refusal of
applications for exceptions and/or conditions on discharge permits, to
determine if the decision, action or determination made by the Director is
reasonable and necessary to protect the POTW and/or to effectuate the
provisions of this chapter.
            (F)   To review actions involving refusal of application for
exceptions and/or conditions on discharge permits to determine whether or not
the party appealing said decision has met the conditions prescribed in this
chapter. In making this determination, the board may consider the following:
               1.   The cost of pretreatment or other types of control
techniques which would be necessary for the user to achieve effluent reduction,
but prohibitive cost alone shall not be the basis for granting a variance;
               2.   The age of equipment and industrial facilities involved to
the extent that such factors affect the quality or quantity of wastewater
discharge.
               3.   The process employed by the user and process changes
available which would affect the quality or quantity of wastewater discharge;
               4.   The engineering aspects of various types of pretreatment or
other control techniques available to the user to improve the quantity or
quality of wastewater discharge.
      (b)   Hearings. Except in those emergency situations, as provided for
elsewhere in this chapter, the Director shall afford any user an opportunity
for a hearing to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. User shall be provided with not less than forty-eight (48) hours of
notice of such hearing. Notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested). Such notice may be
served on any user, permit applicant or permit holder. Whether or not a duly
notified user appears as noticed, immediate enforcement action may be pursued.
      Any order of notice of violation shall become final and not subject to
review unless the person or persons named therein request, by written petition,
a hearing before the Sewer Regulations Appeals Board no later than thirty (30)
days after the date such is served.
      The Director's decision, action or determination, shall remain in full
force and effect during such period of appeal unless modified or suspended by
the Sewer Regulations Appeals Board.
      Any hearing held by the Sewer Regulations Appeals Board will be held
according to and in full compliance with Tennessee Code Annotated, § 69-3-124.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
18-212. Miscellaneous provisions.
   (1)   Rules and regulations. The city is authorized to make, promulgate,
alter, amend, or repeal such rules and regulations as are reasonably necessary
to control the use of the Cookeville Sewer System. The violation of any such
rules and regulations shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (2)   Severability. If any provision, paragraph, word, article or section of
this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions, paragraphs, words, sections and chapters shall not be
affected and shall continue in full force and effect.
   (3)   Conflict. All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances
inconsistent or conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed
to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
   (4)   Effective date. This Ordinance shall take effect fourteen (14) days
from and after its final passage, the public welfare requiring it.
(Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
TITLE 19
ELECTRICITY AND GAS
   CHAPTER
      
1.   ELECTRICITY.
      
2.   GAS.
CHAPTER 1
ELECTRICITY1
SECTION
   
19-101.   Application for service.
   
19-102.   Point of delivery.
   
19-103.   Customer's wiring--standards.
   
19-104.   Inspections.
   
19-105.   Underground power lines.
   
19-106.   Customer's responsibility for electric department's property.
   
19-107.   Right of access.
   
19-108.   Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   
19-109.   Discontinuance of service by the electric department.
   
19-110.   Termination of contract by customer.
   
19-111.   Service charges for temporary service.
   
19-112.   Interruption of service.
   
19-113.   Voltage fluctuations caused by the customer.
   
19-114.   Additional load.
   
19-115.   Standby and resale service.
   
19-116.   Notice of trouble.
   
19-117.   Non-standard service.
   
19-118.   Meter tests and reading checks.
   
19-119.   Relocation of facilities.
   
19-120.   Billing adjusted to standard periods.
   
19-121.   Tampering with electric department's property.
   
19-122.   Attachments to electric department's poles.
   
19-123.   Application fees required for electric service.
   
19-124.   Application fee exemption.
   
19-125.   Contract and guarantee requirements for commercial and industrial
customers.
   
19-126.   Service charges.
   
19-127.   Scope.
   
19-128.   Conflict.
   
19-129.   Violations.
   
19-130.   Shortage of electricity.
19-101. Application for service.
   Each prospective customer desiring electric service may be required to sign
the electric department's standard form of application for service or contract
before service is supplied by the city.
(1970 Code, § 13-301)
19-102. Point of delivery.
   The point of delivery is the point, as designated by the electric
department, on the customer's premises where current is to be delivered to his
building or premises. All wiring and equipment beyond this point of delivery
shall be provided and maintained by the customer at no expense to the electric
department.
(1970 Code, § 13-302)
19-103. Customer's wiring--standards.
   All wiring of the customer must conform to the electric department's
requirements and accepted modern standards, as exemplified by the requirements
of the National Electrical Safety Code and the National Electrical Code.
(1970 Code, § 13-303)
19-104. Inspections.
   The electric department shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to
inspect any installation before electricity is introduced or at any time, and
reserves the right to reject any wiring or appliances not in accordance with
the electric department's standards; but such inspection or failure to inspect
or reject shall not render the electric department liable or responsible for
any loss or damage resulting from defects in the installation, wiring, or
appliances, or from accidents which may occur upon the customer's premises. An
inspection shall be required of old wiring if there is reason to question its
safe condition. If same is found to be unsafe, service may be discontinued
until such time as said wiring will pass inspection.
(1970 Code, § 13-304)
19-105. Underground power lines.
   Customers desiring underground power lines from the electric department's
overhead system must bear the excess cost incident thereto. Specifications and
terms for such constructions will be furnished by the electric department on
request.
(1970 Code, § 13-305)
19-106. Customer's responsibility for electric department's property.
   All meters, service connections, and other equipment, furnished by the
electric department shall be, and remain, the property of the electric
department. The customer shall provide a space for and exercise proper care to
protect the property of the electric department on its premises, and, in the
event of loss or damage to such property arising from neglect of the customer
to care for same, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements shall be
paid by the customer.
(1970 Code, § 13-306)
19-107. Right of access.
   The electric department's identified employees shall have access to the
customer's premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters,
testing, repairing, removing, or exchanging any or all equipment belonging to
the electric department. Installed meter bases shall be located in such a
manner that the electric department has complete accessibility to the meters at
all times. If a meter is inaccessible for reading, the usage will be estimated.
A $10.00 service charge will be added to the customer's bill if a second trip
is required, due to prior inaccessibility, to read or test a meter. All plans
to modify the premises and/or structures thereon shall contain provisions to
relocate the meter base, if necessary, in order to preserve the accessibility.
If, in the event relocation of the meter base is not feasible, a remote
metering circuit may be installed at the discretion of the electric department.
The cost of the remote metering circuit shall be borne by the customer on a
cash or an investment basis of one and one-half percent (l½%) per month of the
installation expense.
(1970 Code, § 13-307)
19-108. Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   (1)   Issuance of bills. The City of Cookeville shall issue utility bills in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the
city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   (2)   Disconnect of service for unpaid balance. The City of Cookeville shall
disconnect utility accounts for an unpaid or past due balance in accordance
with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the city
manager and in effect at the time the account is being processed for
disconnect.
(1970 Code, § 13-308, as amended by Ord. #098-06-17, July 1998, and replaced by
Ord. #004-10-19, Oct. 2004)
19-109. Discontinuance of service by the electric department.
   The electric department may refuse to connect or may discontinue service for
the violation of any of its rules and regulations, or for violation of any of
the provisions of the schedule of rates and charges, or of the application of
the customer or contract with the customer. The electric department may
discontinue service to the customer for the theft of current or the appearance
of current theft devices on the premises of the customer. The discontinuance of
service by the electric department for any causes as stated in this rule does
not release the customer from his obligation to the electric department for the
payment of minimum bills as specified in the application of the customer or the
contract with the customer.
(1970 Code, § 13-309)
19-110. Termination of contract by customer.
   Customers who have fulfilled their contract terms and wish to discontinue
service must give at least three (3) days' written notice to that effect,
unless the contract specifies otherwise. Notice to discontinue service prior to
the expiration of the contract term will not relieve the customer from any
minimum or guaranteed payment under any contract or rate.
(1970 Code, § 13-311)
19-111. Service charges for temporary service.
   Customers requiring electric service on a temporary basis will be required
by the electric department to pay fifty dollars ($50.00) or all costs,
whichever is greater, for connection and disconnection incidental to the
supplying and removing of service. This is exclusive of any aid-in-construction
cost for supplying power to the service point.
(Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002)
19-112. Interruption of service.
   The electric department will use reasonable diligence in supplying current,
but shall not be liable for breach of contract in the event of, or for loss,
injury, or damage to persons or property resulting from, interruptions in
service, excessive or inadequate voltage, single-phasing, or otherwise
unsatisfactory service, whether or not caused by negligence.
(1970 Code, § 13-313)
19-113. Voltage fluctuations caused by the customer.
   Electric service must not be used in such a manner as to cause unusual
fluctuations or disturbances to the electric department's system. The electric
department may require the customer, at his own expense, to install suitable
apparatus which will reasonably limit such fluctuations.
(1970 Code, § 13-314)
19-114. Additional load.
   The service connection, transformers, meters, and equipment supplied by the
electric department for each customer have a definite capacity, and no addition
to the equipment or load connected thereto will be allowed except by consent of
the electric department. Failure to give notice of additions or changes in
load, and to obtain the electric department's consent for same, shall render
the customer liable for any damage to any of the electric department's lines or
equipment caused by the additional or changed installation.
(1970 Code, § 13-315)
19-115. Standby and resale service.
   All purchased electric service (other than emergency or standby service)
used on the premises of the customer shall be supplied exclusively by the
electric department, and the customer shall not, directly or indirectly, sell,
sublet, assign, or otherwise dispose of the electric service or any part
thereof.
(1970 Code, § 13-316)
19-116. Notice of trouble.
   The customer shall notify the electric department immediately should the
service be unsatisfactory for any reason, or should there be any defects,
trouble, or accidents affecting the supply of electricity. Such notices, if
verbal, should be confirmed in writing.
(1970 Code, § 13-317)
19-117. Non-standard service.
   The customer shall pay the cost of any special installation necessary to
meet his peculiar requirements for service at other than standard voltages, or
for the supply of closer voltage regulation than required by standard practice.
(1970 Code, § 13-318)
19-118. Meter tests and reading checks.
   The electric department will, at its own expense, make periodic tests and
inspections of its meters in order to maintain a high standard of accuracy. The
electric department will make additional tests or inspections of its meters at
the request of the customer.
   If tests made at the customer's request show that the meter is accurate
within two percent (2%), slow or fast, no adjustment will be made in the
customer's bill, and the testing charge of ten dollars ($10.00) per meter will
be paid by the customer. If the test shows the meter to be in excess of two
percent (2%) fast or slow, an adjustment shall be made in the customer's bill
for a period of not over thirty (30) days prior to the date of such test, and
the cost of making the test shall be borne by the electric department. A ten
dollar ($10.00) charge will be made when a trip to re-read a meter is made at
the customer request. If the new reading shows an error was made in the
previous reading the $10.00 reading charge will be waived.
(1970 Code, § 13-319, modified)
19-119. Relocation of facilities.
   The electric department shall, at the request of the customer, relocate or
change existing electric department-owned equipment. The customer shall
reimburse the electric department for such changes at actual cost, including
appropriate overheads.
(1970 Code, § 13-320)
19-120. Billing adjusted to standard periods.
   The demand charges and the blocks in the energy charges set forth in the
rate schedules are based on billing periods of approximately one (l) month. In
the case of the first billing of new accounts (temporary service, cotton gins,
and other seasonal customers excepted) where the period covered by the billing
involves fractions of a month, the demand charges and the blocks of the energy
charge will be adjusted to a basis proportionate with the period of time during
which service is extended.
(1970 Code, § 13-321)
19-121. Tampering with electric department's property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, or interfere with, the
operation of any electric meter through which electricity is supplied by the
City of Cookeville, Tennessee, or to in any way tamper with or interfere with
any of the electric facilities of the city or to make improper connections
thereto so as to evade, or attempt to evade, the payment of lawful service and
connection charges to the city.
   Any person tampering with or interfering with the electric facilities of the
city shall be presumed to have done so with the intent to evade or attempt to
evade the payment of lawful service and connection charges to the city.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, individual, or group of
individuals to tamper, bother, molest, or attack with malicious intent any
pole, line, transformer, substation, switch, guy, or any other piece of
apparatus or material owned and/or used by the electric department in its
transmission and/or distribution of electric power to the city.
(1970 Code, § 13-322)
19-122. Attachments to electric department's poles.
   The electric department will not allow foreign attachments to its poles or
other facilities except attachments by telephone and telegraph companies, TVA,
CATV companies, and other utilities.
(1970 Code, § 13-323)
19-123. Application fees required for electric service.
   Each residential customer desiring electric service from the electric
department shall be required to pay a nonrefundable application fee of forty-
five dollars ($45.00) per meter. Commercial and Industrial customers may be
required to make application and pay a nonrefundable application fee for new
utility service or changes to existing service. Applications must provide
satisfactory documentation before utility service is provided. The
documentation must include a signature of the owner or officer of the business.
It is the responsibility of the utility customer to contact the City to
discontinue services. The customer will be responsible for all bills incurred
until termination of services is requested.
(Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002, as amended by Ord. #08-09-19, Sept. 2008,
replaced by Ord. #O16-07-18, August 2016)
19-124. Application fee exemption.
   Any City of Cookeville utility ratepayer having utility service for a
minimum of three (3) years with no more than three (3) late penalty charges in
any twelve (12) month period and no more than one (1) reconnection charge due
to nonpayment of account; and/or one (1) return check charge in any twelve (12)
month period may be exempt from application fees. Service charges are not
subject to exemption.
(Ord. #002-06- 016, June 2002, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
19-125. Contract and guarantee requirements for commercial and industrial
customers.
   No guarantee will be required for commercial/industrial customers whose
monthly electric usage is not anticipated to exceed five thousand (5,000)
kilowatt hours. A utility bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or cash deposit
equal to two (2) months bill will be required for all new commercial and
industrial accounts whose monthly usage is anticipated to exceed five thousand
(5,000) kilowatt hours. The guarantee amount will not exceed twice the highest
monthly bill. The electric security amount will be determined by the amount of
kW demand requested by the customer in CED's power contract and/or the kWh
loading information supplied by the customer. If billing information is
available at the given location, previous history may be used to determine the
guarantee amount. When a cash deposit is paid in full, interest will be paid on
an annual basis. Interest will be credited to customer deposit balance in
January of each calendar year based on the previous calendar year average
annual interest rate earned on the primary deposit account less bank fees.
Customers may review deposit balance including interest credit. Additional
information can be found in Customer Service Policy 3.2. Each separate meter
shall require an appropriate guarantee regardless of the number of meters
provided for a single customer or single premise. Existing commercial/
industrial accounts that are scheduled for non-pay cut-off two or more times in
a twelve month period shall be required to provide security as stated above. If
a bond or letter of credit expires or is cancelled, the service will be
terminated. A power contract shall be required for commercial and industrial
customers whose electric service is greater than 300 kW. The power contract
referred to herein shall be in conformity with the requirements of the power
contract between the Tennessee Valley Authority and the City of Cookeville,
Tennessee. The electric department shall draft such contracts as the
requirements of each customer's situation requires and deliver the same to the
new customer and to the existing customers whose level of demand for service
changed so as to require a new contract. The contract shall be tendered to the
customer for execution. If the customer fails to enter into said contract, such
failure shall constitute a delinquency in that account.
(Ord. #015-10-28, October 2015)
19-126. Service charges.
   (1)   Connection charge. A service charge of twenty dollars ($20) shall be
collected for each service connection. Any request for service received after
2:00 P.M. will be processed the next business day.
   (2)   Disconnection charge for nonpayment of account. When service has been
disconnected by the electric department for nonpayment of account, a service
charge of one hundred dollars ($100) shall be assessed to all accounts that
require the use of a bucket truck.
   (3)   Reconnection charge due to nonpayment of account. When service has
been disconnected by the electric department for nonpayment of account, a
service charge of forty dollars ($40) shall be collected to restore service. A
service charge of one hundred dollars ($100) will apply to all accounts that
require the use of a bucket truck. Effective January 1, 2021, service will only
be restored during normal business hours if the service was disconnected for
nonpayment of account.
   (4)   Returned checks. A twenty dollar ($20) service charge (for all
utilities or a single service) will be charged for each check returned by the
bank or e-check processor unpaid. If it is determined by the finance director
that the returned check was caused by bank error then the twenty dollar ($20)
service charge shall be waived. (Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002, as amended by Ord
#O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
19-127. Scope.
   This chapter is a part of all contracts for receiving electric service from
the electric department, and applies to all service received from the electric
department, whether the service is based upon contract, agreement, signed
application, or otherwise. A copy of the provisions in this chapter, together
with a copy of the electric department's schedule of rates and charges, shall
be kept open to inspection at the offices of the electric department.
Additional information can be found in Customer Service Policy 2.4.
(1970 Code, § 13-331) (Ord. #015-10-28, October 2015)
1   Municipal code reference
   Interruption of service: §
19-113.
19-128. Conflict.
   In case of conflict between any provision of any rate schedule and the
provisions in this chapter, the rate schedule shall apply.
(1970 Code, § 13-332)
19-129. Violations.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with or who aids or abets in the
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be fined under the general penalty clause of this code.
In addition, said person shall also be liable for expenses incurred by the
electric department as a result of repairing, fixing, replacing, or whatever is
necessary to return its system to original status quo as a result of said
violation. This section shall not apply for non-payment of bills.
(1970 Code, § 13-333)
19-130. Shortage of electricity.
   In the event of an emergency or other condition causing a shortage in the
amount of electricity for distributor to meet the demand on its system,
distributor may, by an allocation method deemed equitable by distributor, fix
the amount of electricity to be made available for use by customer and/or may
otherwise restrict the time during which customer may make use of electricity
and the uses which customer may make of electricity. If such actions become
necessary, customer may request a variance because of unusual circumstances
including matters adversely affecting the public health, safety and welfare. If
customer fails to comply with such allocation or restriction, distributor may
take such remedial actions as it deems appropriate under the circumstances
including temporarily disconnecting electric service and charging additional
amounts because of the excess use of electricity. The provisions of the section
entitled "Interruption of service" 1 of this schedule of rules and regulations
are applicable to any such allocation or restriction.
(1970 Code, § 13-334)
1   Municipal code reference
   Gas code:
title 12, chapter 4.
   Supervision and control of the various utility departments:
title 1, chapter 2.
CHAPTER 2
GAS1
SECTION
   
19-201.   Definitions
   
19-202.   Standard service.
   
19-203.   Non-standard service.
   
19-204.   Application for service; extension policies.
   
19-205.   Application fees required for gas service.
   
19-206.   Application fee exemption.
   
19-207.   Guarantee requirements for commercial and industrial customers.
   
19-208.   Point of delivery.
   
19-209.   Customers' piping and installation standards.
   
19-210.   Right of access.
   
19-211.   Customers' responsibility for gas department property.
   
19-212.   Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   
19-213.   Discontinuance of service.
   
19-214.   Termination of service by customer.
   
19-215.   Interruption of service.
   
19-216.   Additional load.
   
19-217.   Notice of trouble.
   
19-218.   Meter tests.
   
19-219.   Restricted use of gas.
   
19-220.   Billing adjusted to standard periods.
   
19-221.   Rate schedules for gas service.
   
19-222.   Purchased gas adjustment.
   
19-223.   Rate schedules definitions.
   
19-224.   Applicability of chapter.
   
19-225.   Service charges.
19-201. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter:
   (1)   "Gas department" shall mean the Cookeville Gas Department, engaged in
the operation of the Cookeville Natural Gas Distribution System and its duly
authorized officers and employees.
   (2)   "Commercial customers" shall mean customers engaged primarily in the
sale of goods or services including institutions and local, state and federal
agencies for uses other than those involving manufacturing.
   (3)   "Industrial customers" shall mean customers engaged primarily in a
process which creates or changes raw or unfinished materials into another form
or product.
   (4)   "Residential consumers" shall mean those customers who consume gas
from the gas department in a single or multiple unit dwelling with household
appliances for the personal comfort and convenience of those residing in such
dwelling.
   When a portion of a dwelling is used regularly for the conduct of a
business, which business consumes or utilizes gas from the gas department, the
gas so used in the conduct of the business shall be metered separately from the
gas consumed and used in the dwelling house purposes, otherwise the entire
premises, both business and dwelling, will be classified as a commercial or
industrial consumer, as set forth in this chapter.
   (5)   "Customer" means any person who receives gas service from the gas
department under an expressed or implied contract requiring such person to pay
the gas department for such service; and shall include any person upon whose
property there is located a gas service line even though such service line is
not in active use.
   (6)   "Service line" shall mean the pipe which leads from the gas
department's gas distribution mains to a customer's building or other structure
where such customer takes gas service. "Service line" does not include meter,
shut-off cock, pressure regulator or gauges.
   (7)   "Day" whenever used with reference to a period for which gas used is
measured or metered, shall mean a period of twenty-four consecutive hours
beginning as near as practical to 9:00 A.M. Central Standard Time, and the date
of any such day shall be the date of the calendar day on which said twenty-four
hour period begins.
(1970 Code, § 13-201, modified)
19-202. Standard service.
   Service is normally limited to natural gas of approximately 1000 BTU cubic
foot heat content and approximately 0.6 specific gravity as referred to air,
and at a normal pressure of 6 inches water column above atmosphere. The gas
department reserves the right to furnish substitute or supplemental gas of
different heat content and/or specific gravity either in the event of emergency
or for other reasons. Pressure specified herein is nominal pressure and the gas
department does not guarantee actual pressure.
(1970 Code, § 13-202)
19-203. Non-standard service.
   For service at other than standard pressure, the customer shall confer with
the gas department regarding the type of service required. Before the customer
proceeds with the purchase of equipment or piping in such cases, he should
contact the gas department, which will furnish information on the ability to
meet special requirements. The customer shall pay any additional cost involved
in meeting his particular requirements for service at other than standard
pressure. Nothing contained herein shall obligate the gas department to provide
such special service.
   For billing purposes, the volume or quantity of gas delivered to a customer
using non-standard service, as metered or estimated, shall be corrected, in
accordance with Boyle's Law, to its equivalent volume at a gauge pressure of
four (4) ounces per square inch.
(1970 Code, § 13-203)
19-204. Application for service; extension policies.
   Each prospective customer desiring gas service from the Cookeville Gas
Department must make application for such service from the Cookeville Gas
Department in the municipal building, and must comply with all pertinent
ordinances and rules and regulations established for the operation of the
Cookeville Gas Department.
   Main extensions shall depend on the economic feasibility of extending such
mains and available gas supply as determined by the director of the Cookeville
Gas Department. Any prospective customer refused service shall have the right
to ask the Cookeville City Council to reconsider and rule on the application.
   During periods of short gas supply, the Cookeville Gas Department shall have
the right to refuse service to new customers, establish waiting lists for
service, and/or establish priorities between classes of customers to be served.
   Customer shall pay for all materials used in installing the service line
from the gas main to the building.
(1970 Code, § 13-204)
19-205. Application fees required for gas service.
   Each customer desiring gas service from the gas department shall be required
to pay a non-refundable application fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per meter,
except when more than one (1) meter is provided for the convenience of the gas
department and the consumption on the separate meters is combined for billing
purposes.
   All customers, other than residential customers, whose monthly gas bill is
anticipated to be less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per month desiring
gas service from the gas department, shall pay a non-refundable application fee
of sixty dollars ($60.00) per meter, except when more than one (1) meter is
provided for the convenience of the gas department. This section does not apply
to applications for temporary service.
(Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002, as amended by Ord. #08-09-19, Sept. 2008)
19-206. Application fee exemption.
   Any City of Cookeville utility ratepayer having utility service for a
minimum of three (3) years with no more than three (3) late penalty charges in
any twelve (12) month period and no more than one (1) reconnection charge due
to nonpayment of account; and/or one (1) return check charge in any twelve (12)
month period may be exempt from application fees. Service charges are not
subject to exemption.
(Ord. #002-06- 016, June 2002, as amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
19-207. Guarantee requirements for commercial and industrial customers.
   No guarantee will be required for commercial/industrial customers whose
monthly gas bill is not anticipated to exceed five hundred dollars ($500). A
utility bond, irrevocable letter of credit, or cash deposit equal to two (2)
months bill, will be required for all new commercial and industrial accounts
whose monthly gas bill is anticipated to exceed five hundred dollars ($500).
When a cash deposit is paid in full, interest will be paid on an annual basis.
Interest will be credited to customer deposit balance in January of each
calendar year based on the previous calendar year average annual interest rate
earned on the primary deposit account less bank fees. Customers may review
deposit balance including interest credit. Additional information can be found
in Customer Service Policy 3.2. Each separate meter shall require an
appropriate guarantee regardless of the number of meters provided for a single
customer or single premise. If a bond or letter of credit expires or is
cancelled, the service will be terminated. Existing commercial/industrial
accounts that are scheduled for a non-pay cut-off two or more times in a twelve
month period shall be required to provide security as stated above.
(Ord. #015-10-28, October 2015)
19-208. Point of delivery.
   The point of delivery shall be the outlet side of the customer's meter or
the connection to the customer's piping, whichever is farther downstream from
the source of gas supply.
(1970 Code, § 13-211)
19-209. Customers' piping and installation standards.
   All piping and installation of appliances must conform to the gas code as
adopted in
title 12, chapter 4 in this code. The gas department's representatives, and
employees shall have the right, but shall not be obligated, to enter upon the
customers premises at all reasonable and/or necessary times and inspect gas
appliances, installations and piping to determine whether or not the same meets
the requirements of the rules and regulations of Cookeville, Tennessee, at such
time. The gas department reserves the right to refuse or terminate gas service
for violation of the above mentioned rules and regulations or for any other
condition deemed hazardous by responsible gas department representatives or
employees. The inspection provided for in this section shall not, however,
render the gas department liable or responsible for any loss or damage
resulting from defects in installation, piping, or appliances, or resulting
from violation of the rules and regulations of Cookeville, Tennessee, or from
accidents which may occur upon customer's premises.
(1970 Code, § 13-212)
19-210. Right of access.
   The gas department's identified employees shall have access to each
customer's premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters
and testing, repairing, removing, or exchanging any or all equipment belonging
to the gas department.
(1970 Code, § 13-213)
19-211. Customers' responsibility for gas department property.
   All meters, regulators, service connections, and other equipment furnished
by the gas department shall be and remain the property of the gas department.
   Each customer shall provide a place for, and exercise proper care to protect
the property of the gas department on its premises. In the event of loss or
damage to the gas department property arising from the neglect of a customer to
care for same, the cost of necessary repairs or replacement shall be paid by
the customer.
(1970 Code, § 13-214)
19-212. Issuance of bills, disconnect of service for unpaid balance.
   (1)   Issuance of bills. The City of Cookeville shall issue utility bills in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the
city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   (2)   Disconnect of service for unpaid balance. The City of Cookeville shall
disconnect utility accounts for an unpaid or past due balance in accordance
with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Polices approved by the city
manager and in effect at the time the account is being processed for
disconnect.
(1970 Code, § 13-215, as replaced by Ord. #004-10-19, Oct. 2004)
19-213. Discontinuance of service.
   The Cookeville Gas Department will refuse to connect or will disconnect gas
service for any violation of this chapter, or for violation of any of the
provisions of pertinent rules and regulations established for the guidance and
operation of the Cookeville Gas Department. The discontinuance of service by
the gas department for any cause as stated in this section does not release the
customer from his obligation to the gas department for the payment of minimum
bills as specified in the application of the customer or the contract with the
customer.
(1970 Code, § 13-216)
19-214. Termination of service by customer.
   Customers who have fulfilled their contract terms and wish to discontinue
service must give at least three (3) days' written notice to that effect,
unless their service contract specifies otherwise. Notice to discontinue
service prior to expiration of the contract term will not relieve the customer
from any minimum or guaranteed payment under any contract or rate.
(1970 Code, § 13-217)
19-215. Interruption of service.
   The gas department will use reasonable diligence to provide a regular and
uninterrupted supply of gas, but the gas department cannot and does not
guarantee the consumer any fixed pressure or continuous service. In case the
supply of gas shall be interrupted or disturbed for any cause, the gas
department shall not be liable for damages resulting therefrom.
   In connection with the operation, maintenance, repair and extension of the
gas distribution system, the gas supply may be shut off without notice, when
necessary or desirable; and each customer must be prepared for such
emergencies. The gas department shall not be held liable for any damages from
such interruption of service or for damages from the resumption of service
without notice after any such interruption.
(1970 Code, § 13-218)
19-216. Additional load.
   The service line, regulator, meter, and equipment supplied by the gas
department for each customer have definite capacities, and no additional load
shall be connected thereto except by consent of the gas department. Failure to
give notice of additions or changes in load, and to obtain the gas department's
consent for same, shall render the customer liable for any damage to any of the
gas department's equipment caused by such additional or changed installation.
(1970 Code, § 13-219)
19-217. Notice of trouble.
   Customers shall notify the gas department immediately should the service be
unsatisfactory for any reason, or should there be any defects, trouble, or
accidents affecting the supply of gas. Such notices, if verbal, shall be
confirmed in writing at the earliest reasonable time.
(1970 Code, § 13-220)
19-218. Meter tests.
   The gas department will, at its own expense, make periodical tests and
inspections of its meters in order to maintain a high standard of accuracy of
said meters. The gas department will make additional tests or inspections of
its meters at the request of the customer. If tests made at a customer's
request show that the meter is accurate within two percent (2%), either slow or
fast, no adjustment will be made in the customer's bill, and the testing charge
of one dollar ($1.00) per meter will be paid by the customer, said amount to be
included in the next bill sent to the customer by the gas department. In case
the test shows the meter to be in excess of two percent (2%), either slow or
fast, an adjustment shall be made in the customer's bill over a period of not
to exceed thirty (30) days prior to the date of such test, and cost of making
the test shall be borne by the gas department.
(1970 Code, § 13-221)
19-219. Restricted use of gas.
   In times of emergencies or in times of gas shortage, the gas department
reserves the right to restrict the purposes for which gas may be used by a
customer and the amount of gas which a customer may use.
   A time of gas shortage within the meaning of this section shall be deemed to
exist whenever the actual use or the reasonably anticipated use of gas in any
day, or any other fixed period of time exceeds the quantity of gas the gas
department is entitled to obtain and can obtain from the gas department's
supplier without incurring any overrun penalties or charges in excess of the
price normally paid for natural gas.
   (1)   Insofar as is reasonably practical, the following priorities shall be
observed when the gas department finds it necessary or desirable to restrict
the use of gas as authorized by this section, with the highest priority of use
being the first named and the subsequent uses being in descending order or
priority.
      (a)   Residential customers.
      (b)   Small commercial customers (less than 50 MCF on a peak day).
      (c)   Large firm commercial customers (50 MCF or more on a peak day) and
firm industrial customers.
      (d)   Interruptible customers.
   Interruptions or curtailments may be on a day to day basis or customers may
be restricted on the amount of gas they are allowed to use in a stated period
of from one (1) to twelve (12) calendar months.
   (2)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the gas department from varying
the priorities as stated above or varying the degree of curtailment when such
variance is necessary to prevent interference with essential public services
including the operation of hospitals, schools, educational institutions,
utility services, and governmental operations, or whenever the gas department
in the exercise of a reasonable discretion, determine such variance to be
necessary where:
      (a)   The use of an alternate fuel would impose unacceptable safety
hazards or is otherwise not technically feasible.
      (b)   Natural gas is used as raw material for its chemical properties in
creating an end product.
      (c)   Applications requiring precise temperature controls and precise
flame characteristics where the flame is in direct contact with the material
being processed and alternate fuels are not technically feasible.
      (d)   Abnormal circumstances, such as strikes, plant closings, etc.,
during the "base period" being used as a basis for curtailment resulting in
lower "base period" volumes than the annual usage normally would have been
during the base period.
   To insure that any variances granted shall be uniform and nondiscriminatory
in nature, an advisory committee composed of industry representatives and/or
other technically qualified persons shall be formed to study any request for
variance from any curtailment which may be imposed under the terms of this
section. Recommendations from this committee shall be given due consideration
but shall not be binding upon the gas department in determining whether or not
a variance is to be granted. Any variance granted or refused by the gas
department may be appealed to the city council.
   The gas department shall establish written procedures for the implementation
of any curtailment resulting from the inability to obtain sufficient gas
supplies for the requirements of its customers. Customers likely to be
curtailed will be notified as far in advance as practicable and shall be given
information on their priority classification, a copy of the sections of the
municipal code pertaining to the gas curtailment, and the written procedures
developed by the gas department for implementing the curtailment.
   Whenever a customer takes gas in excess of the amount allowed under any
notice from the gas department restricting or interrupting the customer's use
of gas, the customer shall be required to pay to the gas department for any
penalties or other excess charges incurred by the gas department including, but
not limited to, propane, liquified natural gas furnished by the department's
supplier and/or through its own facilities, or other gaseous products. In
addition, should said excess use of gas cause the department to incur damages
#93116, September 1993. Section IV of Ord. #93116, states "It is further
ordained that this ordinance shall become effective with all bills for gas
service rendered after September 25, 1993, the public welfare requiring it." or
other liabilities from its other customers, the customer shall be required to
discharge same and hold the department harmless therefor. Refusal to pay such
charges, penalties, or damages or continued or willful overruns shall be
sufficient grounds for cancellation of service to such customer, as well as
legal proceedings to collect such charges, penalties or damages.
   A customer's maximum day may be determined by recording devices, actual day
by day readings, or calculated from the previous twelve months maximum
consumption. For heating customers, this calculation shall be based on 5% of
the maximum months consumption. For customers whose usage is practically
constant regardless of weather conditions, the calculation shall be the maximum
months consumption divided by the number of days normally worked in a month.
The method used shall be the method determined by the gas department to be the
most practical.
(1970 Code, § 13-222)
19-220. Billing adjusted to standard periods.
   The gas charges as set forth in the rate schedules are based on billing
periods of approximately one (1) month. In case of the first billing of new
accounts and final billing of all accounts where the period covered by the
billing involves fractions of a month, the charges will be adjusted to a basis
proportionate with the period of time during which service is extended.
(1970 Code, § 13-223)
19-221. Rate schedules for gas service. 1
   The following rates shall be, and are hereby established for gas distributed
by the Cookeville Gas Distribution System.
   RATE SCHEDULE G-2
   RESIDENTIAL GAS SERVICE
   AVAILABILITY
   Effective May 14, 2020 - Service under Rate Schedule G-2, which includes
Rate 613 and 622, is available only to residential customers served
individually through a separate meter.
   NET RATE
   The net rate for service under Rate Schedule G-2 for each monthly billing
period shall be as follows:
   Minimum bill         $7.00
   Commodity charge:       68.90 cents per Ccf for the first 50 Ccf; plus
   Inside rates          64.50 cents per Ccf for the next 50 Ccf; plus 63.60
cents per Ccf for all over 100 Ccf.
   PURCHASED GAS ADJUSTMENT
   The commodity charge shall be subject to the purchased gas adjustment of the
Cookeville Gas Department.
   PAYMENT
   Bills for service under Rate Section G-2 will be rendered monthly in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Policies approved by
the city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   All service provided hereunder is subject to the rules and regulations of
the Cookeville Gas Department which may from time to time be in effect.
   RATE SCHEDULE G-3
   SMALL COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL GAS SERVICE
   AVAILABILITY
   Effective May 14, 2020 - Service under Rate Schedule G-3, which includes
Rate 614 and 636, is available only to commercial and industrial customers
whose primary use of natural gas is for space heating.
   NET RATE
   The net rate for service under Rate Schedule G-3 for each monthly billing
period shall be as follows:
   Minimum bill:       $15.00
   Commodity charge:       73.30 cents per Ccf for the first 50 Ccf; plus
   Inside rates         68.50 cents per Ccf for the next 100 Ccf; plus
               67.50 cents per Ccf for all over 150 Ccf.
   PURCHASED GAS ADJUSTMENT
   The commodity charge shall be subject to the purchased gas adjustment of the
Cookeville Gas Department.
   PAYMENT
   Bills for service under Rate Section G-3 will be rendered monthly in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Policies approved by
the city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   All service provided hereunder is subject to the rules and regulations of
the Cookeville Gas Department which may from time to time be in effect.
   RATE SCHEDULE G-4
   LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL GAS SERVICE
   AVAILABILITY
   Effective May 14, 2020 - Service under Rate Schedule G-4, which includes
Rate 650, is available to all commercial and industrial customers whose primary
use of natural gas is as fuel for process steam generation and/or other
manufacturing or business purposes which occur during all twelve (12) months of
the year and a substantial portion of their usage is for other than heating
purposes.
   NET RATE
   The net rate for service under Rate Schedule G-4 for each monthly billing
period shall be as follows:
   Minimum bill:       $50.00
   Commodity charge:       74.70 cents per Ccf for the first 100 Ccf; plus
   Inside rates          69.70 cents per Ccf for the next 200 Ccf; plus 68.80
cents per Ccf for all over 300 Ccf.
   PURCHASED GAS ADJUSTMENT
The commodity charge shall be subject to the purchased gas adjustment of the
Cookeville Gas Department.
   PAYMENT
   Bills for service under Rate Section G-4 will be rendered monthly in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Policies approved by
the city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   All service provided hereunder is subject to the rules and regulations of
the Cookeville Gas Department which may from time to time be in effect.
   RATE SCHEDULE G-5
   INTERRUPTIBLE GAS SERVICE
   AVAILABILITY
   Effective May 14, 2020 - Service under Rate Schedule G-5, which includes
Rate 690, is available to those customers who have been approved by the
Cookeville Gas Department and who meet the following requirements and have
signed a written contract with the Cookeville Gas Department specifying these
requirements:
      (a)   Have an annual usage, on an actual or projected basis, of not less
than 1,500 Ccf per day or 500,000 Ccf annually.
      (b)   Have alternate fuel capability for use during periods of
curtailment or total interruption.
      (c)   Agree to cease or curtail the use of natural gas in accordance with
written or verbal instructions from the Cookeville Gas Department.
   CHARACTER OF SERVICE
   Interruptible gas shall be available only to the extent that the Cookeville
Gas Department has gas available within it's maximum daily contract quantity
that is not required by its firm customers or when the Cookeville Gas
Department is able to obtain additional gas supply and the gas transmission
companies serving Cookeville have interruptible transportation available.
   Gas purchased under Rate Schedule G-5 shall be used only by the customer at
its facilities and shall be delivered to a single point of delivery located
within the service area of the Cookeville Gas Distribution System and shall not
be resold by the customer.
   NET RATE
   Effective May 14, 2020 - The net rate for service under Rate Schedule G-
5 for each monthly billing period shall be the sum of the commodity charge, the
transportation and overhead charge, and the unauthorized overrun charge, (if
any).
   Transportation and overhead charge: 09.70 cents per Ccf. plus;
   Commodity charge: The actual cost of gas purchased by the Cookeville Gas
Department, less any demand charges, but including gas cost, transportation
cost, and any additional charges imposed by the transmission pipelines serving
Cookeville. This includes gas purchased by Cookeville under its firm supply and
transportation contracts as well as any gas purchased under interruptible
supply and transportation contracts. The commodity charge shall be calculated
and billed on a monthly basis.
   Unauthorized overrun charge: Those actual charges which the Cookeville Gas
Department, incur in supplying the additional gas used by the customer above
the amount authorized.
   PURCHASED GAS ADJUSTMENT
   Since the commodity charge and unauthorized overrun charge varies monthly
based on the actual cost of gas and transportation, the purchased gas
adjustment does not apply to this rate schedule.
   PAYMENT
   Bills for service under Rate Section G-5 will be rendered monthly in
accordance with the City of Cookeville Customer Service Policies approved by
the city manager and in effect at the time of the issuance of the utility bill.
   UNAUTHORIZED OVERRUN PENALTY
   No customer shall take unauthorized gas. A customer must immediately notify
the Cookeville Gas Department if it has taken or anticipates taking
unauthorized gas. In the event a customer takes unauthorized gas, the customer,
shall be charged, in addition to the transportation and overhead charge, the
cost to the Cookeville Gas Department in supplying the unauthorized gas,
including, but not limited to, any charges by the transmission pipelines or gas
supplier for the cost of natural gas, transportation and penalties, liquified
natural gas, and propane-air. In addition to these costs, the Cookeville Gas
Department may pursue any other remedy available to it under applicable law,
including, but not limited to, suspension or termination of service. The
existence of a penalty shall not be construed to give any customer the right to
take unauthorized gas.
   PRIORITY OF SERVICE
   Interruptible gas service is supplied to customers of the Cookeville Gas
Department under Rate Schedule G-5. Customers who purchase gas under firm rate
schedules shall have priority over customers purchasing gas under Rate Schedule
G-5. Except as may otherwise be determined by the Cookeville Gas Department in
its sole discretion, periods of curtailment or interruption shall generally be
imposed on G-5 customers for the following reasons:
   (1)   Whenever the Maximum Daily Quantity (MDQ) of natural gas available to
the Cookeville Gas Department under Rate Schedules FT-A, FS and FT on any given
day is insufficient to meet the projected requirements of the firm rate
customers and interruptible rate customers, The customers purchasing gas on
firm rate schedules shall have first priority on the available gas supply and
interruptible customers shall be notified to curtail their use of natural gas.
The curtailment may be a partial or total curtailment. The customer shall be
advised of the amount of gas, if any, they may be allowed to use during each 24
hour period. The curtailment shall extend until notified by the Gas Department
that normal gas usage may resume or the time specified in the notice of
curtailment has expired.
   (2) During periods of curtailment, the Cookeville Gas Department shall
endeavor to obtain additional gas supply and transportation service under
Interruptible (IT) Rate Schedules. If such supply is available, the G-
5 customers may utilize this supply to the extent available to reduce or
eliminate the need for curtailment.
   (3) When curtailment becomes necessary for G-5 Service, order of curtailment
shall be in accordance with the customers load factor. The first service
interrupted shall be those customers whose load factor falls below thirty-three
percent (33%). The next customers interrupted shall be those customers with
load factors between thirty-three percent (33%) and sixty-six percent (66%).
Last curtailed shall be customers with load factors over sixty-six percent
(66%). Customers falling within the same load factor group shall be curtailed
on a prorata or other equitable basis.
   NOTICES
To the extent possible, the Cookeville Gas Department shall give customers as
much advance notice of curtailment as possible, usually the day before, and
except in extreme emergencies, at least one hour before a period of curtailment
begins. A notice of curtailment may be written or oral and shall be sufficient
if given by the Cookeville Gas Department via telephone or in person to the
person or persons designated from time to time by the customer as authorized to
receive such notices, or by facsimile transmission to the telephone number
designated from time to time by, the customer, or if mailed or hand-delivered
in writing to the customer's premises. If a period of curtailment involves only
a reduction in the amount of gas a customer may use, the notice shall state the
daily quantity of gas which the customer may use. A period of curtailment shall
continue in effect until the Cookeville Gas Department notifies the customer
that the period of curtailment has terminated or until the time specified in
the notice of curtailment has expired. A day is defined as a period of time
beginning at 9:00 A.M. and ending at 9:00 A.M. the following morning local
time.
   MINIMUM BILL
   The minimum bill under Rate Schedule G-5 is $120.00.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   All service provided hereunder is subject to the rules and regulations of
the Cookeville Gas Department which may from time to time be in effect.
   RATE SCHEDULE G-7
   OUTSIDE CITY GAS SERVICE
   AVAILABILITY
   Service under Rate Schedule G-7 is available to all customers in all classes
who are located outside the city limits of the City of Cookeville. All terms
and conditions of the preceding rate schedules will apply to these customers
with the exception of the net commodity charge which will be twentyfive percent
(25%) higher than the corresponding net commodity charge for customers located
within the city limits of the City of Cookeville. (1970 Code, § 13- 224, as
amended by Ord. #000-07-25, July 2000; Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002; Ord. #003-
06- 17, July 2003, Ord. #O20-01-01, Feb. 2020, and Ord. #O20-04-06, April 2020)
 
Notes
  1   The provisions of §§ 19-220, 19-221, and 19-222 are taken from Ord.
1 #93116, September 1993. Section IV of Ord. #93116, states "It is further
  ordained that this ordinance shall become effective with all bills for gas
  service rendered after September 25, 1993, the public welfare requiring it."
19-222. Purchased gas adjustment.1
1   The provisions of §§ 19-220, 19-221, and 19-222 are taken from Ord. #93116,
September 1993. Section IV of Ord. #93116, states "It is further ordained that
this ordinance shall become effective with all bills for gas service rendered
after September 25, 1993, the public welfare requiring it."
   The rate schedules, except Rate Schedule G-5, of the Cookeville Gas
Department shall be adjusted as follows:
   (1)   Provision for adjustment. The base retail gas rates per one hundred
cubic feet (Ccf) of gas set forth in Rate Schedules G-2, G-3, G-4, and G-7 of
the Cookeville Gas Department shall be increased or decreased by an amount
hereinafter described, which amount shall be called the "purchased gas
adjustment" or the "PGA".
   (2)   Intent and application to various purchases. (a) This purchased gas
adjustment is intended to allow recovery on an equitable basis of the total
cost of gas purchased, transported, and/or reserved for delivery to the gas
sales customers of the Cookeville Gas Department.
      (b)   The PGA anticipates various sources and costs of purchased gas for
general system supply including, but not limited to:
         (i)   Cost of natural gas purchased from producers, brokers,
interstate pipeline or transmission companies, intrastate pipeline or
transmission companies, marketers, joint ventures, other distribution
companies, and end-users whether or not regulated by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.
         (ii)   Cost of liquified natural gas (LNG) and vaporized LNG.
         (iii)   Cost of liquefied petroleum gas/air mixture (PA).
         (iv)   Cost of substitute natural gas (SNG)
         (v)   Cost of other hydrocarbons used as feedstock for production of
substitute natural gas.
         (vi)   Cost of contractual storage and transportation of items (i)
through (v) above.
   ANNUAL WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF GAS (AWACOG)
   The annual weighted average cost of gas shall be computed on the date this
amendment becomes effective. This computation shall be used to determine the
base retail gas rates. This computation shall be based on all the cost
associated with obtaining gas supply, including but not limited to, the cost of
gas, demand charges, commodity charges, transportation charges, LNG costs, PA
costs, nominating and balancing charges, Order 636 charges, storage costs
including: reservation fees, storage injection and withdrawal charges,
transition costs, and any other similar charges from any marketer or pipeline
transporter.
   In order to establish the base retail gas rates, the gas revenues for the
twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the effective date of this
amendment shall be divided by the Ccf's of gas sold during that period to
determine the average revenue per Ccf of gas sold. Operation and maintenance
costs, including depreciation, in-lieu-of-tax payments, principal payments,
interest expense and any other costs, e.g., normal capital expenditures,
normally involved in operating the Cookeville Gas Distribution System shall be
added to the computed AWACOG in order to establish the revenue per Ccf required
in order to operate the system. The difference between the revenue required and
the actual revenue per Ccf for the preceding twelve (12) month period shall be
added to each step of Rate Schedules G-2, G-3 and G-4 in order to establish the
initial base retail gas rates.
   The AWACOG shall be computed monthly. The PGA shall first be triggered when
the AWACOG increases or decreases by as much as one-half cent per Ccf compared
to the then existing PGA. The increase or decrease shall be reflected on all
bills rendered after the 30th day of the month in which the PGA has been
triggered. Monthly AWACOG increases or decreases of less than one-half cent per
Ccf shall accumulate until the aggregate of the increases or decreases has
reached or exceeded one-half cent per Ccf since the last PGA. The PGA shall
only apply to increases or decreases in the annual weighted average cost of gas
and not to increases in the cost of operating and maintaining the gas system.
(1970 Code, § 13-225, modified)
19-223. Rate schedules definitions.1
1   The provisions of §§ 19-220, 19-221, and 19-222 are taken from Ord. #93116,
September 1993. Section IV of Ord. #93116, states "It is further ordained that
this ordinance shall become effective with all bills for gas service rendered
after September 25, 1993, the public welfare requiring it."
   The following definitions shall apply to the terms as used in these rate
schedules for gas service. Any term used in these rate schedules that is not
otherwise defined in this section shall have the meaning customarily ascribed
to that term in the natural gas industry.
   (1)   "Minimum bill." A monthly charge assessed to all customers to
partially offset the overhead and administration costs for serving a customer,
regardless of the amount of gas used.
   (2)   "Commodity charge." Charges based on the amount of gas used that
reflect all the costs involved in obtaining the gas supply and operating and
maintaining the gas distribution system.
   (3)   "Purchased gas adjustment." An adjustment to the commodity charge of
the Cookeville Gas Department to reflect the changes in the cost of obtaining
gas supplies until the next change in the cost of gas occurs. This adjustment
may be either in increase or decrease in the commodity charge.
   (4)   "Transportation and overhead." The charges paid to the Cookeville Gas
Department by customers who purchase gas on an interruptible Rate Schedule (G-
5). This charge includes the cost of delivering the gas to the customer, meter
reading, billing, collection, maintenance of mains and meters, administration
costs, depreciation and markup.
   (5)   "Unauthorized overrun charge/penalty." Charges imposed on customers
purchasing gas on an interruptible rate schedule to recover the cost of gas in
used in excess of the amount authorized when a curtailment is in effect.
   (6)   "Firm rate schedules." Gas sold to customers who are not subject to
curtailment of service except under emergency conditions.
   (7)   "Maximum daily quantity." The maximum amount of gas the transmission
pipelines are obligated to supply on any given day without penalty charges.
   (8)   "Load factor." The average daily use of natural gas on an annual basis
as a percentage of the maximum use of gas on any day of the year.
   (9)   "Base retail gas rates." The commodity charge for each class of
service as established for gas usage on the effective data of this code
amendment. These rates shall be the basis for all adjustments under the PGA
until this code section is further amended.
   (10)   "Demand charges." All gas costs related to system capacity based on
the right of the Cookeville Gas Department to demand gas or transportation on a
daily or seasonal peak and all reserve dedication charges (e.g., reservation
fees and gas inventory charges).
   (11)   "Storage costs." Those charges associated with replacing gas in
storage during the summer months in order to have it available for withdrawal
when needed during the winter months.
   (12)   "LNG (liquified natural gas)." Natural gas which has been liquified
and placed in above ground storage tanks during the summer months in order to
have it available for withdrawal when needed during the winter months.
   (13)   "PA (propane-air)." Liquified propane which has been vaporized and
mixed with the proper proportion of air to make it compatible with natural gas
and available for injection into the natural gas distribution system as needed
during the winter months.
   (14)   "Nominating and balancing." The process of notifying the transmission
pipelines of the amount of natural gas to be delivered each day and monitoring
the amount delivered to make certain the deliveries match the usage each day.
   (15)   "Order 636 charges." The various charges implemented by the
transmission pipelines to comply with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
Order No. 636 which required the pipelines to cease supplying natural gas and
become a transporter only.
(1970 Code, § 13-225.1, as amended by Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002)
19-224. Applicability of chapter.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all customers receiving gas
service from the Cookeville Gas Department, whether the service is based upon
contract, agreement, signed application, or otherwise. A copy of the provisions
in this chapter shall be kept available for public inspection at the office of
the Cookeville Gas Department.
(1970 Code, § 13-226)
19-225. Service charges.
   (1)   Connection charge. A service charge of twenty dollars ($20) shall be
collected for each service connection. Any request for service received after
2:00 P.M. will be processed the next business day. A service charge of thirty-
five dollars ($35.00) shall be collected for all service connections that are
requested by customers who elect to discontinue gas service during the summer
and reconnect their service in the fall.
   (2)   (Reserved)
   (3)   Reconnection charge due to nonpayment of account. When service has
been disconnected by the gas department for nonpayment of account, a service
charge of forty dollars ($40) shall be collected to restore service. Effective
January 1, 2021, service will only be restored during normal business hours if
the service was disconnected for nonpayment of account.
   (4)   Returned checks. A twenty dollar ($20) service charge (for all
utilities or a single service) will be charged for each check returned by the
bank or e-check processor unpaid. If it is determined by the finance director
that the returned check was caused by bank error then the twenty dollar ($20)
service charge shall be waived.
(Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002, as amended by Ord. #003-06-17, July 2003; and
Ord. #O20-01-01, Feb. 2020; and Ord. # O20-11-18, Nov. 2020)
TITLE 20
MISCELLANEOUS
   CHAPTER
      
1.   [RESERVED.]
      
2.   FAIR HOUSING.
      
3.   BURGLARY AND ROBBERY ALARMS.
CHAPTER 1
[RESERVED.]
SECTION
   
20-101.   [Deleted.]
   
20-102.   [Deleted.]
   
20-103.   [Deleted.]
   
20-104.   [Deleted.]
   
20-105.   [Deleted.]
   
20-106.   [Deleted.]
20-101. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
20-102. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
20-103. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
20-104. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
20-105. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
20-106. [Deleted.]
(Ord. #096-09-22, Oct. 1996, as deleted by Ord. #013-12-20, Jan. 2014)
CHAPTER 2
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION
   
20-201.   Definitions.
   
20-202.   Unlawful acts.
   
20-203.   Religious organizations.
   
20-204.   Membership in real estate organization.
   
20-205.   Public information.
   
20-206.   Enforcement.
   
20-207.   Penalty.
20-201. Definitions.
   Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
following meanings unless the context necessarily requires otherwise:
   (1)   "Dwelling" means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of any such building.
   (2)   "Family" includes a single individual.
   (3)   "Person" includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
   (4)   "To rent" includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to
grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the
occupant.
(1970 Code, § 4-901)
20-202. Unlawful acts.
   Subject to the exceptions hereinafter set out it shall be unlawful for any
person to do any of the following acts:
   (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer to do
so or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make
unavailable or deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin or sex.
   (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, national
origin or sex.
   (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, national origin or sex.
   (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin or sex that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental
when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
national origin or sex.
(1970 Code, § 4-902)
20-203. Religious organizations.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin or sex.
(1970 Code, § 4-903)
20-204. Membership in real estate organization.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of
race, color, religion, national origin or sex.
(1970 Code, § 4-904)
20-205. Public information.
   The codes department (hereby referred to as the office) is authorized and
directed to undertake such educational and conciliatory activities as in its
judgment will further the purposes of this chapter. It may call conferences of
persons in the housing industry and other interested parties to acquaint them
with the provisions hereof and any suggested means of implementing it. The
office shall further endeavor, with the advice of the housing industry and
other interested parties, to work out programs of voluntary compliance and may
advise appropriate city officials on matters of enforcement.
(1970 Code, § 4-905)
20-206. Enforcement.
   Any person who claims to have been injured by an act made unlawful by this
chapter, or who claims that he will be injured by such an act, may file a
complaint with the director of the codes department. A complaint shall be filed
within 180 days after the alleged unlawful act occurred.
   Complaints shall be in writing and shall contain such information and be in
such form as required by the office. Upon receipt of a complaint the office
shall promptly investigate it and shall complete its investigation within
fifteen (15) days. If the director of the codes department finds reasonable
cause to believe that a violation of this chapter has occurred, or if a person
charged with violation of this chapter refuses to furnish information to said
office, the office may request the city attorney to prosecute an action in the
city court against the person charged in the complaint. Such request shall be
in writing.
   Upon receiving such written request and with the assistance of the aggrieved
person and said office, within fifteen (15) days, after receiving such request
the city attorney shall be prepared to prosecute an action in the city court,
provided a warrant is sworn out by the aggrieved person and served upon the
person or persons charged with the offense.
(1970 Code, § 4-906, modified)
20-207. Penalty.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
offense and upon conviction shall pay a penalty of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00) for each offense. Each day such violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
   Nothing in this chapter requires any person claiming to have been injured by
an act made unlawful by this chapter to exhaust the remedies provided herein;
nor prevent any such person from seeking relief at any time under the federal
civil rights acts or other applicable legal provisions.
(1970 Code, § 4-907, modified)
CHAPTER 3
BURGLARY AND ROBBERY ALARMS
SECTION
   
20-301.   Title.
   
20-302.   Definitions.
   
20-303.   Alarm system requirements, generally.
   
20-304.   Permits required.
   
20-305.   Permit application.
   
20-306.   Permit fees.
   
20-307.   Terms of permit and renewal.
   
20-308.   Inspection of alarm systems.
   
20-309.   Current information required.
   
20-310.   Determination of false alarm.
   
20-311.   Malicious false alarm.
   
20-312.   Appeals.
   
20-313.   Fee assessment.
   
20-314.   Notices.
   
20-315.   Penalty.
20-301. Title.
   This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the burglary and robbery
alarm ordinance.
(1970 Code, § 13-501)
20-302. Definitions.
   As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   (1)   "Alarm system" means a device or system of interconnected devices,
including hardware and related appurtenances, mechanical or electrical,
designed to give warning of activities, indicative of felony and criminal
conduct requiring urgent attention and to which the police department is
expected to respond, but does not include alarms installed in motor vehicles or
fire alarms.
   (2)   "Alarm user" means the person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind in control of any building,
structure, or facility or portion thereof, wherein an alarm system is
maintained.
   (3)   "Annunciator" means that part of an alarm system, other than an
automatic dialer, which communicates the fact that the system has been
triggered.
   (4)   "Answering service" means a telephone answering service providing,
among its services, the receiving, through trained employees, of emergency
signals from alarm systems and the relaying of the message by live voice to the
communications center of the Cookeville Police Department.
   (5)   "Audible annunciator" means an annunciator which gives alarm by means
of a bell, siren, buzzer or similar sound producing device mounted at some
location, other than wholly within a building; or which, when activated, is
clearly audible at a distance of fifty feet or more outside of any building in
which it is mounted.
   (6)   "Automatic dialer" means a device which is programmed to select a
telephone number and deliver a warning message or signal over standard
telephone lines using telephone voice communication equipment.
   (7)   "Chief" means the Chief of Police of the City of Cookeville, or a
police officer under his jurisdiction designed by him to exercise any power or
duty conferred under this chapter.
   (8)   "Department" means the City of Cookeville Police Department.
   (9)   "City of Cookeville telephone line" means a telephone line which rings
or terminates on the premises of the City of Cookeville.
   (10)   "False alarm" means any activation of an alarm system upon or
following which communication is made to the department that an alarm has been
triggered, except alarms resulting from one of the following causes:
      (a)   Criminal activity or unauthorized entry,
      (b)   Earthquake causing structural damage to the protected premises,
      (c)   Tornado winds causing structural damage to the protected premises,
      (d)   Flooding of the protected premises due to overflow of natural
drainage,
      (e)   A lightening bolt causing physical damage to the protected
premises,
      (f)   Fire causing structural damage to the protected premises verified
by the fire department,
      (g)   Telephone line malfunction verified in writing upon the request of
the chief of police or his designee to the department by at least a first line
telephone company supervisor within seven days of the occurrence.
   If the alarm, when communicated to the department before an officer is
dispatched to investigate is clearly identified to the department as resulting
from authorized entry, authorized system test, or other non-criminal cause, it
shall not be considered as a false alarm. If police units, responding to an
alarm and checking the protected premises according to standard department
operating procedure, do not discover any evidence of unauthorized entry or
criminal activity, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the alarm is
false.
   (11)   "Fiscal year" means June 30th through July 1st.
   (12)   "Hearing officer" means an employee of the City of Cookeville
designated by the chief of police to act as an impartial arbitrator at hearings
related to the enforcement of the herein chapter.
   (13)   "Malicious false alarm" means the intentional false reporting to the
police of a police emergency condition, or the intentional setting off of an
alarm which will cause another to report the signal to the police. However,
this definition is not to include the testing of an alarm system when proper
notification has been made to the police department.
   (14)   "On-premise annunciator" means an annunciator which is designed to
give warning only to a person or persons on the protected premises, and which
is neither an "audible" or "remote" annunciator as those terms are defined in
this section.
   (15)   "Person" means any natural person or individual or any firm,
partnership, association, limited partnership, sole proprietorship or
corporation of any business entity.
   (16)   "Protected premises" means all of that contiguous area, including
buildings, protected by a single alarm system and under common ownership and
use.
   (17)   "Remote annunciator" means an annunciator located at a terminal not a
part of the protected premises.
   (18)   "Sensor" means that part of an alarm system which is designed to
detect the happenings of some event or existence of some condition indicative
of criminal activity or unauthorized entry.
   (19)   "Special trunk line" means a telephone line leading into the
communications center of the police department and having the primary purpose
of handling emergency or messages originating either directly or through a
central location from an automatic dialer.
   (20)   "Telephone company" means the publicly regulated industry which
furnishes telephone communication services to the City of Cookeville.
   (21)   "Visual annunciator" means an annunciator installed entirely on the
protected premises and which gives inaudible warning by means of a flashing
light or other visible signal.
(1970 Code, § 13-502)
20-303. Alarm system requirements, generally.
   (1)   No alarm system shall be installed, used or maintained in violation of
any of the requirements of this code, or any applicable statute, law or
administrative regulation of the United States of America, the State of
Tennessee, or any administrative rule-making body thereof.
   (2)   The alarm user shall be responsible for the actions and omissions of
family members and other persons who may make regular use of the protected
premises and who may, in the normal course of their activities, be in a
position to accidentally trigger a sensor.
   (3)   The alarm user shall, at all times, be responsible for the proper
maintenance and repair of the system, and for the repair or replacement of any
component, method of installment, design feature or like condition which may
give rise to a false alarm.
   (4)   All alarm systems shall have a back-up power supply that will become
effective in the event of power failure or outage in the source of electricity
from the utility company.
(1970 Code, § 13-508)
20-304. Permits required.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or maintain any alarm
system without a current valid permit therefor.
   (2)   No permit shall be required for an exempt alarm system as defined in §
20-303, and the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to such systems.
   (3)   In the event police investigate an alarm, the permit holder or an
agent shall cooperate by promptly coming to the premises upon request. Refusal
shall constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of a permit.
   (4)   If an alarm user has one or more alarm systems protecting two or more
structures having different addresses, a separate permit will be required for
each structure.
   (5)   On or after the adoption of this chapter, a permit will not be issued
for any alarm system wherein the protected premises is located outside the
corporate limits of the City of Cookeville.
(1970 Code, § 13-509)
20-305. Permit application.
   Each application for an alarm system permit shall be made on a form
prescribed by the chief, and shall contain the following information:
   (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the principal of the
protected premises.
   (2)   The type of premises (home, office, variety store, etc.) and any
business name by which the premises is known.
   (3)   The address of the protected premises; including, if it is in a
residential, commercial or industrial complex (office building, apartment
house, shopping center, etc.), any name by which the complex is commonly known.
   (4)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers, including home phone
numbers, of all agents.
   (5)   The number and type of annunciators and automatic dialers which the
alarm system incorporates, the location of all remote annunciators, and the
names and phone numbers of all persons or businesses which are or may be
preselected for automatic dialer contact.
   (6)   Each application shall list an emergency telephone number of the alarm
user or his representative to permit prompt notification of alarm calls and
facilities assisting the police in the inspection of the property. Changes in
emergency telephone numbers shall be kept current, and failure to provide
updated information may constitute grounds for revocation of the permit.
   (7)   The application shall be accompanied by the fee prescribed under §
20-312.
   (8)   The application for all alarm systems shall list the name and phone
number of at least one responsible person (other than the principal or a member
of his household) having access to the premises who may be notified and assist
the police in the event the alarm is activated. Said person must reside in
Putnam County. The principal shall immediately notify the chief of police of
any changes in this information.
(1970 Code, § 13-510)
20-306. Permit fees.
   The fees for alarm system permit and renewals shall be as follows:
   (1)   The initial registration fee for all alarms shall be twelve dollars
($12.00).
   (2)   An annual renewal fee of twelve dollars ($12.00) shall be paid for all
alarm systems having more than three (3) false alarms during the fiscal year.
   (3)   Said registration fees are payable to the City of Cookeville and are
separate and distinct from any fees which may be payable to alarm companies
maintaining alarm user systems.
(1970 Code, § 13-512, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
20-307. Terms of permit and renewal.
   (1)   Alarm system permits shall expire on June 30 of each year.
   (2)   Those alarm users whose systems have not been the source of more than
three false alarms in the previous twelve month period shall have their permit
automatically renewed without further application and shall have their annual
renewal fee waived.
   (3)   An alarm system permit shall automatically terminate upon any change
of principal, or protected premises. No permit may be transferred to another
principal, or protected premises. No refunds will be given on termination or
suspension of any permit for any reason.
   (4)   Renewal permits shall be dated July 1st. The renewal application shall
contain the principal's signed statement that there have been no changes in
principal, or protected premises.
   (5)   Permits shall not be renewed if outstanding fines, fees or late
charges which have been incurred as a result of the use of the system have not
been paid. If the fines, fees or late charges are being processed through
administrative channels or court system, then a permit may be issued or
renewed.
   (6)   Any alarm user who operates an alarm system without first obtaining a
permit as required by this section, or who, after having a permit revoked or
suspended and after exhausting his rights of appeal fails to disconnect his
alarm system, shall be in violation of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 13-513, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
20-308. Inspection of alarm systems.
   Prior to issuing an alarm system permit, and at any time thereafter during
the term thereof, the chief of police, or his designee, may inspect any alarm
system for which a permit is required. Such inspection shall be for the purpose
of ascertaining that information furnished by the applicant or permittee is
correct, and that the system is maintained in conformance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 13-514)
20-309. Current information required.
   Within ten days following any change of circumstances which renders obsolete
any of the information submitted pursuant to §
20-310, the alarm user shall file an amendment to his application setting forth
the currently accurate information. No additional fee shall be required unless
the change has terminated the permit as provided in §
20-313. Failure to comply with this section shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the permit.
(1970 Code, § 13-515)
20-310. Determination of false alarm.
   (1)   Whenever an alarm is activated in the city, thereby requiring an
emergency response to the location by the police department, and the police
department does respond, a police officer on the scene of the activated alarm
system shall inspect the area protected by the system and shall determine
whether the emergency response was in fact required as indicated by the alarm
system or whether in some way the alarm system malfunctioned and thereby
activated a false alarm.
   (2)   If the police officer at the scene of the activated alarm system
determines the alarm to be false, said officer shall make a report of the false
alarm, a notification of which shall be mailed or delivered to the alarm user,
at the address of the said alarm system installation location, advising alarm
user of the false alarm.
(1970 Code, § 13-516)
20-311. Malicious false alarm.
   Any person who shall maliciously cause a false alarm to be reported shall be
in violation of this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 13-517)
20-312. Appeals.
   (1)   A hearing officer shall be appointed by the chief of police to hear
appeals from alarm users on the issue of whether the alarm system in question
activated a false alarm, as determined by a police officer at the scene of such
activated alarm.
   (2)   Upon receipt of any false alarm report from the city, the alarm user
shall have ten days to request, in writing, a hearing before the said hearing
officer.
   (3)   At the hearing, which must be scheduled and concluded within fifteen
days from the date the request for same is received, the alarm user shall have
the right to present evidence and testimony.
   (4)   The hearing officer shall make written findings available to the alarm
user and the chief of police within ten days from the date the hearing is
concluded.
   (5)   A decision by the chief of police, or his designee, to uphold or to
cancel the false alarm report which is the subject of the herein section must
be made within ten days from the receipt of the above findings by the chief of
police.
   (6)   Until all of the steps set forth in this section have been completed,
the false alarm in question will be considered to have been genuine and will
not be considered the basis for the prima facie presumption that the involved
alarm system is malfunctioning, except as to any proceedings that may be
instituted in the city court for a violation of this chapter.
   (7)   The imposition of fees, actions and procedures for enforcement and
regulation herein are declared to be cumulative and in addition to such court
procedures as may be herein created or previously existing. Nothing in this
section or in any other provisions of this chapter shall alter, control or
modify the jurisdiction and procedure of the city court in those cases where
one is charged with any act or omission which this chapter prohibits, declares
to be unlawful, describes as a misdemeanor or is designated as a violation of
this chapter.
(1970 Code, § 13-518)
20-313. Fee assessment.
   (1)   It is hereby found and determined that all false alarms constitute a
public nuisance. The permit holder will be billed a twenty-five dollar ($25.00)
service charge per false alarm occurrence after the third such false alarm in
any fiscal year. Each service charge incurred shall be billed and payment shall
be made within thirty days from the date of receipt thereof. Failure to make
payments within thirty days from the date of receipt shall result in a
discontinuance of police response to alarms that may occur at the premises
described in the alarm user's permit until payment is received.
   Failure to make payment within sixty days of receipt of the bill shall
result in the user's permit being deemed to thereby be revoked.
   (2)   Any permit revoked shall not be reinstated until all outstanding false
alarm service charges are paid in full together with a twelve dollar ($12.00)
reinstatement fee. There shall be no refund of any unused portion of a permit
fee.
(1970 Code, § 13-519, as amended by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002)
20-314. Notices.
   (1)   Notice or billing from the city to any permit holder shall be deemed
to have been given or rendered on the date such notice or billing is deposited
in the U.S. Mail, first class postage, prepaid addressed to the permit holder
at the address shown in the city's permit records. A certificate signed by the
person who mailed the notice shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein with respect to such notice.
   (2)   Notice to the city or payment under this chapter shall be effective
when received at the appropriate city office.
(1970 Code, § 13-520)
20-315. Penalty.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be fined
accordingly. Each day during which violation is maintained or continued shall
be deemed a separate offense.
(1970 Code, § 13-521)
City of Cookeville Parallel Reference Table 
Subject Old code §New code §
Subject              Old code §New code §
CITY COUNCIL
Time and place of    1-101      Replaced by Ord.# 097-12-33, Jan. 1998
regular meeting
Order of business    1-102      1-102 (as amended by Ord. #O23-16-17, July
                                2023)
General rules of     1-103      1-103 (as amended by Ord. #O23-16-17, July
order                           2023)
Rules to govern
business before the            1-104 (Ord. #O23-16- 17, July 2023)
City Council
ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Plan adopted         1-201      1-201
Administrative       1-202      1-202
organization
Departments          1-203      1-203
established
Department
directors;           1-204      1-204
subordinate
personnel
Supervision and      1-205      1-205
control
City manager's
responsibility and   1-206      1-206
authority
Organization chart   1-207      1-207
of the city
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Purchases            1-301      Replaced by Ord.# 096-10-23, Oct. 1996
Purchasing           1-302      5-102
procedures
POLICE AND ARREST
Police officers
subject to chiefs    1-401      6-102
orders
Police officers to
preserve law and     1-402      6-103
order
Police officers to
wear uniforms, and   1-403      6-104
be armed
When police officers 1-404      6-105
are to make arrests
Police officer's
authority to require 1-405      6-106
assistance
Disposition of       1-406      6-107
persons arrested
Police department    1-407      6-108
records
Authority of police  1-408      6-109
department officers
CITY COURT
City judge           1-501      3-101
Fines and costs,     1-502      3-102
etc.
Enforcement of fines 1-503      3-103; amended by Ord. #O19-06-08, July 2019
and costs
SOCIAL SECURITY FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Policy and purpose   1-701      4-101
as to coverage
Necessary agreements 1-702      4-102
to be executed
Withholdings from    1-703      4-103
salaries or wages
Appropriations for
employer's           1-704      4-104
contributions
Records and reports  1-705      4-105
to be made
Personnel under
other retirement     1-706      4-106
plans excluded
Coverage extended to
personnel            1-707      4-107
compensated on a fee
basis
VACATION, SICK LEAVE. HOLIDAYS, ETC.
Personnel director
to develop employee  1-810      4-201
benefits program
PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL
Personnel director
shall develop a
personnel policies   1-901      4-301
and procedures
manual
Personnel director
shall maintain
official copy of the 1-902      4-302
city's personnel
policies and
procedures manual
Implementation and
amendment of         1-903      4-303
personnel policies
and procedures
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
Joint operation with 1-1001
county
Authority and        1-1002
responsibilities                Replaced by Ord. #096-09-22
Office of director,
his authority and    1-1003
responsibility
Civil defense corps  1-1004
created
No municipal or      1-1005     Repealed by Ord. #096-09-22
private liability
Expenses of civil    1-1006
defense
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAM
(Amended by Ord. #O13-02-04, February 2013)
Authority            1-1101     4-401
Rights of director   1-1102     4-402
Responsibilities of  1-1103     4-403
director
Rights of employees  1-1104     4-404
Plan to become part  1-1105     4-405
of code
Injuries                       4-408
                                (Added by Ord. #O15-09-24, September 2015)
INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Definition of
"alcoholic           2-101      8-201
beverages"
Consumption of
alcoholic beverages  2-102      8-202
on premises
Privilege tax on
retail sale of
alcoholic beverages  2-103      8-203
for consumption on
the premises
Annual privilege tax
to be paid to the    2-104      8-204
city clerk
Advertisements       2-105      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
BEER
Authority to grant,
revoke, etc., beer   2-201       
permits
Authority to appoint
city alcoholic
beverage control     2-201.1    Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
board (hereinafter
referred to as ABCB)
Permit and
application fee      2-202       
required for selling
beer
Privilege tax        2-202.1     
SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES FOR OFF-PREMISE CONSUMPTION
(Amended by Ord. #015-08-20, August 2015, and Ord. #O18-05-11, May 2018)
Definitions                    8-301
Retail sale of
alcoholic beverages            8-302
subject to
regulation
Inspection fee on
retail sale of
alcoholic beverages
for off-premise                8-303
consumption -
- inspections -
- documentation
Inspection fee to be
paid to the city               8-304
clerk
Residency                      8-305
requirement
Location and size              8-306
restrictions
Applications -- fees
-- approval or                 8-307
rejection -- effect
of felony conviction
Time period for                8-308
opening store
Inspections -
- enforcement -                8-309
- authority
Provisions for
unconstitutionality            8-310
or illegality in
this title
BEER
(Amended by Ord. #015-08-20, August 2015)
Definitions                    8-401
Authority to grant,
revoke, etc., beer             8-402
permits
Permit and
application fee                8-403
required for selling
beer
Privilege tax                  8-404
Permits are not                8-405
transferable
Permit forfeited if
permittee is                   8-406
convicted of certain
offenses
Applicant shall file
written application
containing certain             8-407
specific
requirements
Permits authorized
for certain                    8-408
businesses
Permits issued to              8-409
hotels and motels
Permits issued to
restaurants/limited            8-410
service restaurants
Permits issued to              8-411
private clubs
Permits issued for
sale of beer within
corporate limits not           8-412
for consumption on
the premises
Sale to anyone under
21 years of age or             8-413
to intoxicated
persons unlawful
Hours and days of               8-414 (as amended by Ord. #O22-08- 18, August
sale, etc.,                    2022)
regulated
Permittee not to
allow anyone under
21 years of age to
loiter, possess, or            8-415
consume alcoholic
beverages inside the
premises
Unlawful for anyone
under 21 years of              8-416
age to misrepresent
age
Prohibited sexual or
pornographic                   8-417
conduct/enforcement
The ABCB is vested
with the authority
to conduct hearings
on revocation or               8-418
suspension of beer
permits issued under
this chapter
Permits not required
for certain retail             8-419
and wholesale beer
establishments
Violations                     8-420
Provisions for
unconstitutionality            8-421
or illegality in
this title
Special events                 8-422 (as amended by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan.
permits                         2024)
Alcohol education    2-202.2    Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
program required
Permits are not      2-203      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
transferable
Permit forfeited if
permittee is         2-204      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
convicted of certain
offenses
Applicant shall file
written application
containing certain   2-205      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
specific
requirements
Permits authorized
for certain          2-206      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
businesses
Permits issued to    2-207      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
hotels and motels
Permits issued to    2-208      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
restaurants
Permits issued to    2-209      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
private clubs
Permits issued for
sale of beer within
corporate limits not 2-210      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
for consumption on
the premises
Sale to anyone under
21 years of age or   2-211      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
to intoxicated
persons unlawful
Hours and days of
sale, etc.,          2-212      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
regulated
Permittee not to
allow anyone under
21 years of age to
loiter, possess, or  2-213      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
consume alcoholic
beverages inside the
premises
Unlawful for anyone
under 21 years of    2-214      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
age to misrepresent
age
Method of measuring
distances, points of 2-215      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
measurement
The ABCB is vested
with the authority
to conduct hearings
on revocation or     2-216      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
suspension of beer
permits issued under
this chapter
Permits not required
for certain retail   2-217      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
and wholesale
establishments
Advertisements       2-218      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
Violations           2-219      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
Provision for
unconstitutionality  2-220      Deleted by Ord. #011-01-01
or illegality in
this title
IN GENERAL
Running at large     3-101      10-101
prohibited
Keeping near a
residence or         3-102      10-102
business restricted
Pen or enclosure to  3-103      10-103
be kept clean
Adequate food,
water, and shelter,  3-104      10-104
etc., to be provided
Keeping in such
manner as to become  3-105      10-105
a nuisance
prohibited
Cruel treatment      3-106      10-106
prohibited
Seizure and
disposition of       3-107      10-107
animals
Inspections of       3-108      10-108
premises
City to be bird      3-109      10-109
sanctuary
DOGS AND CATS
Rabies vaccination
and registration     3-201      10-201
required
Dogs/cats to wear    3-202      10-202
tags
Running at large     3-203      10-203
prohibited
Vicious dogs to be   3-204      10-204
securely restrained
Noisy dogs           3-205      10-205
prohibited
Confinement of dogs
and cats suspected   3-206      10-206
of being rabid
Seizure and
disposition of dogs  3-207      10-207
and cats
Authority of animal  3-208      10-208
control officer
BUILDING CODE
Building code        4-101      12-101; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
adopted
Modifications        4-102      12-102
Available in clerk's 4-103      12-103
office
Violations           4-104      12-104
Enforcement          4-105      12-105
PLUMBING CODE
Plumbing code        4-201      12-201; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
adopted
Modifications        4-202      12-202; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
Available in clerk's 4-203      12-203
office
Violations           4-204      12-204
ELECTRICAL CODE
Definitions          4-301      12-301
Electricians to be   4-302      12-302
licensed
Effect of licensing  4-303      12-303
Electricians'        4-304      12-304
helpers
Issuance of meter
sockets, etc., by    4-305      12-305
city
Standards for        4-306      12-306
electrical work
Electrical work to
be subject to        4-307      12-307
inspection
Unsafe conditions    4-308      12-308
Unlawful to damage
or tamper with       4-309      12-309
city's property
Unlawful to
interfere with       4-310      12-310
meters
Unlawful to divert
current around       4-311      12-311
meters
Inspection fees      4-312      12-312
GAS CODE
Definitions          4-401      12-401
No gas to be
supplied without     4-402      12-402
inspection
Persons making
installations,       4-403      12-403
repairs, etc., to be
insured
Property owner's     4-404      12-404
responsibility
Standards for gas    4-405      12-405; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
installations
Converting piping
and appliances from  4-406      12-406
use of liquefied to
natural gas
Enforcement          4-407      12-407
                               
HOUSING CODE
Housing code adopted 4-501
Modifications        4-502
Available in clerk's 4-503      Repealed by Ord. #014-06-11
office
Violations           4-504
Enforcement          4-505
EXISTING BUILDING              Title 12, Chapter 6 replaced by Ord. #014-06-
CODE                            11; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
HOUSE TRAILERS
Compliance with this 4-601      14-401
chapter required
Permit required      4-602      14-402
Permit fee           4-603      14-403
Cut-off date         4-604      14-404
Trailers to be
located in licensed  4-605      14-405
parks only
Trailer not to be    4-606      14-406
relocated
Connection to water
and sewer systems    4-607      14-407
required
Office trailers on
state and federally  4-608      14-408
owned property
Temporary office     4-609      14-409
trailers
Violations           4-610      14-410
Enforcement          4-611      14-411
MOBILE HOME PARKS
Definition of terms  4-701
Permits              4-702
Environmental, open
space, and access    4-703
requirements
Service building and
other community      4-704
service facilities
Refuse handling      4-705      Chapter Deleted
Insect and rodent    4-706
control
Fuel supply and      4-707
storage
Fire protection      4-708
Miscellaneous        4-709
requirements
Penalties            4-710
EROSION CONTROL
Findings             4-801
Definitions          4-802
Grading permits      4-803
Exceptions to
grading permit       4-804      Chapter replaced by Ord. # 001-08-09, Sept.
requirements                    2001. See Title 14, Ch. 5
Requirements         4-805
Stop-work orders     4-806
Bonds                4-807
Violations           4-808
FAIR HOUSING
Definitions          4-901      20-201
Unlawful acts        4-902      20-202
Religious            4-903      20-203
organizations
Membership in real   4-904      20-204
estate organization
Public information   4-905      20-205
Enforcement          4-906      20-206
Penalty              4-907      20-207
UNSAFE BUILDINGS CODE
Standard unsafe
building abatement   4-1001
code adopted
Modifications        4-1002     Repealed by Ord. #014-06-11
Available in clerk's 4-1003
office
Violations           4-1004
Enforcement          4-1005
BUILDING MAINTENANCE           Title 12, Chapter 6 replaced by Ord. #014-06-
CODE                            11; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
CONTROL OF NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEMS
                              Title 14, Chapter 6 amended by Ord. #O16-09-21
Statement of purpose 4-1101     14-601
Definitions          4-1102     14-602
Property owners to
maintain system on   4-1103     14-603
private lands
City to maintain
system on public     4-1104     14-604
lands
Unlawful to alter or
obstruct the natural
storm water drainage
system without       4-1105     14-605, as renamed by Ord. #O16-09-21
approval from the
public works
department
Installation of
culverts for         4-1106     14-606
driveways or
entrances
Installation of
culverts within the  4-1107     14-607
right-of-way
Construction of
parking lots         4-1108     Deleted by Ord. #O16-09-21
[Storm water
detention criteria]
Notification of      4-1109     14-609
violation
Failure to comply
with an order to     4-1110     14-610
correct a violation
Penalties for        4-1111     14-611
failure to comply
Payment of costs     4-1112     14-612
Public works         4-1113     14-613
projects
MECHANICAL CODE
Mechanical code      4-1201     12-701; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
adopted
Modifications        4-1202     12-702; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
Available in clerk's 4-1203     12-703
office
Violations           4-1204     12-704
MISCELLANEOUS
"Closing out" sales  5-102      9-101
Posting and/or
distributing         5-103      Deleted
circulars, etc.
PEDDLERS, ETC.
Permit required      5-201      Chapter replaced by Ord. # 000-02-04, March
                                2000. See Title 9, Ch. 2
Exemptions           5-202       
Application for      5-203       
permit
Issuance or refusal  5-204       
of permit
Appeal               5-205       
Bond                 5-206       
Loud noises and      5-207       
speaking devices
Use of streets       5-208       
Exhibition of permit 5-209       
Policemen to enforce 5-210       
Revocation or        5-211       
suspension of permit
Reapplication        5-212       
Expiration and       5-213       
renewal of permit
CHARITABLE SOLICITORS
Permit required      5-301      9-301
Prerequisites for a  5-302      9-302
permit
Denial of a permit   5-303      9-303
Exhibition of permit 5-304      9-304
TAXICABS
                                Chapter replaced by Ord. #000-02-03, Feb. 2000,
"Taxicab" defined    5-401      which was also replaced by Ord. #011-03-03,
                                April 2011. See Title 9, Ch. 4.
"Conduct a taxicab   5-402       
business" defined
Permit required;
application for      5-403       
permit
Permittees to have   5-404       
good character
Taxicabs to be
licensed, etc.;      5-405       
inspections
Drivers to be
licensed; not to     5-406       
drink, etc.
Action of council on 5-407       
applications
Issuance and
provisions of        5-408       
permits
Fee to be charged    5-409       
for eacb vehicle
Liability insurance  5-410       
Permit numbers to be 5-411       
painted on taxicabs
Permittees to use
only licensed        5-412       
drivers
Permits are non-
assignable and may   5-413       
be revoked
Cruising by drivers  5-414       
prohibited
Permittees must use  5-415       
own vehicles
Provisions
applicable to        5-416       
partnerships, etc.
Provisions not       5-417       
applicable to buses
Drivers to secure
licenses from city   5-418       
clerk
Annual fee for       5-419       
drivers' licenses
Drivers to obey      5-420       
traffic rules
Revocation of        5-421       
drivers' licenses
Vehicle signage                9-417, added by Ord. #O17-03-04, May 2017
POOL ROOMS
Hours of operation   5-501      9-501
regulated
Minors to be kept    5-502      9-502
out; exception
Gambling, etc., not  5-503      Deleted
to be allowed
LABOR ORGANIZERS AND PROMOTERS AND LABOR SOLICITORS
Definitions and      5-601      9-601
classifications
Labor organizers and
promoters to be      5-602      9-602
licensed
Labor solicitors to  5-603      9-603
be licensed
Labor organizations
to use only licensed 5-604      9-604
representatives
Applications for
licenses to be filed 5-605      9-605
with city clerk
Council to act upon
applications;        5-606      9-606
issuance of licenses
Expiration date of   5-607      9-607
licenses
License fees         5-608      9-608
Revocation of        5-609      9-609
licenses
PICKETING
(Chapter deleted by Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018)
Definitions and      5-701      Deleted
classifications
Right to organize,   5-702      Deleted
etc.
Right to strike      5-703      Deleted
Force, violence,     5-704      Deleted
etc., prohibited
Mass picketing       5-705      Deleted
prohibited
Picketing in an
unlawful manner,     5-706      Deleted
etc., prohibited
Unlawful assemblages 5-707      Deleted
Miscellaneous
prohibited           5-708      Deleted
activities
Pickets must be
employees of         5-709      Deleted
picketed employer
GARAGE SALES
Definitions          5-801      Chapter replaced by Ord.# 002-07-22, Sept. 2002
                                See Title 9, Ch.7
Permit required      5-802       
Application for      5-803       
permit
No sales, etc.,
without permit;      5-804       
Limitations on
issuance
Persons and sales    5-805       
excepted
REAL AND/OR PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES
When due and payable 6-101      5-201
When delinquent-     6-102      5-202
penalty and interest
Setting tax levy     6-103      5-203
date
PRIVILEGE TAXES GENERALLY
Taxes enacted, etc.  6-301      5-301
License required     6-302      5-302
WHOLESALE BEER TAX
To be collected      6-401      5-401
MISCELLANEOUS
Official
depositories for     6-501      5-501
city funds
Fiscal year          6-502      5-502
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Fire limits          7-101      7-101
described
FIRE CODE
Fire code adopted    7-201      7-201 ; amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
Enforcement          7-202      7-202
Definition of        7-203      7-203
"municipality"
Storage of
explosives,          7-204      7-204
flammable liquids,
etc.
Variances            7-205      7-205
Appeals              7-206      7-206
Violations           7-207      7-207
Fire lanes           7-208      7-208
Fireworks            7-209      7-209
FIRE DEPARTMENT
Establishment,
equipment, and       7-301      7-301
membership
Objectives           7-302      7-302
Organization, rules, 7-303      7-303
and regulations
Records and reports  7-304      7-304
Tenure and
compensation of      7-305      7-305
members
Chief responsible    7-306      7-306
for training
Equipment to be used
only within          7-307      7-401
corporate limits
generally
Chief to be
assistant to state   7-308      7-307
officer
REFUSE
Definitions          8-102      Chapter replaced by Ord.# 001-06-08, Sept.
                                2001. See Title 17, Ch. 1
Accumulation of      8-103       
refuse
Confiscation of
unsatisfactory       8-104       
storage
Leaves, lawn
clippings, brush,    8-105       
debris, etc.
Collection of        8-106       
garbage and refuse
Disposal of garbage, 8-107       
refuse, and rubbish
Dumping in streams,  8-108       
sewers, and drains
Burning without
prior approval       8-109       
prohibited
Service orders       8-110       
Violations           8-111       
Same; enforcement;   8-113       
hearing officer
MISCELLANEOUS
Health officer       8-401      13-101
Adulterated food,    8-402      Deleted
drugs, and cosmetics
Communicable         8-403      Deleted
diseases
Smoke, soot,         8-404      13-102
cinders, etc.
Stagnant water       8-405      13-103
Dead animals         8-407      13-104
Health and           8-408      13-105
sanitation nuisances
Milk ordinance       8-409      Deleted
adopted by reference
Enforcement          8-410      13-106
Tree ordinance       8-411      13-107 ; amended by Ord. #O18-12-35, Dec. 2018;
                                amended by Ord. 024-06-19, July, 2024
NUISANCES
Declaration of       8-501      13-201
nuisances
General requirements 8-502      13-202
Notification         8-503      13-203
Failure to comply
with an order to     8-504      13-204
correct a violation
Penalties for        8-505      13-205
failure to comply
Payment of costs     8-506      13-206
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Motor vehicle        9-101      15-101
requirements
Authorized emergency 9-102      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
vehicle defined
Operation of
authorized emergency 9-103      Deleted
vehicles
Operation of other
vehicles upon the    9-104      Deleted
approach ofi
emergency vehicles
Following emergency  9-105      15-201
vehicles
Running over fire    9-106      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
hoses, etc.
Driving on streets   9-107      15-102
closed for repairs
Reckless driving     9-108      15-103
Driving under the    9-109      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
influence
One-way streets      9-110      15-105
Unlaned streets      9-111      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Laned streets        9-112      Deleted
Yellow lines         9-113      Deleted
Miscellaneous
traffic-control      9-114      Deleted
signs, etc.
General requirements
for traffic-control  9-115      15-108
signs, etc.
Unauthorized
traffic-control      9-116      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
signs, etc.
Presumption with
respect to traffic-  9-117      15-109
control signs, etc.
School safety        9-118      15-110
patrols
Driving through
funerals or other    9-119      15-111
processions
Damaging pavements   9-120      15-112
Powers and duties of
the city manager
relative to the      9-121      15-113
traffic regulations
in general
Motorcycles and      9-122      15-114
motor driven cycles
Careless driving     9-123      15-115
State registration
plates-definitions;
registration plates
required on
vehicles; manner of  9-124      15-116
attachment and
display; using
plates of other and
lending; and offense
Adoption of state
traffic statutes and           15-104; by Ord. #O17-10-19, Dec. 2017
added regulations
SPEED LIMITS
In general           9-201      15-301 ; amended by Ord. #O18-10-29, Oct. 2018
At intersections     9-202      15-302
In school zones and  9-203      15-303
near playgrounds
In congested areas   9-204      15-304
TURNING MOVEMENTS
Signals              9-301      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Right turns          9-302      Deleted
Left turns on two-   9-303      Deleted
way roadways
Left turns on other
than two-way         9-304      Deleted
roadways
U-turns              9-305      Replaced by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
STOPPING AND YIELDING
Upon approach of
authorized emergency 9-401      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
vehicles
When emerging from
alleys, driveways,   9-402      Deleted
or buildings
To prevent
obstructing an       9-403      15-501
intersection
Railroad crossings   9-404      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
At "stop" signs      9-405      Deleted
At "yield" signs     9-406      Deleted
At traffic-control   9-407      Deleted
signals generally
At flashing traffic- 9-408      Deleted
control signals
At pedestrian        9-409      Deleted
control signals
Stops to be signaled 9-410      Deleted
PARKING
(Repealed and replaced by Ord. #O17-10-18, Dec. 2017)
Generally            9-501      15-608
Angle parking        9-502      15-609
Occupancy of more    9-503      Deleted
than one space
Where prohibited     9-504      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Loading zones        9-505      15-611
Regulation by        9-506      15-613
limited-time parking
Lawful parking in    9-507      Deleted
parking spaces
Unlawful parking in  9-508      Deleted
limited-time spaces
Unlawful to occupy
more than one        9-509      Deleted
limited-time parking
space
Penalty for
violation of         9-510      15-620
preceding sections
Unlawful to deposit  9-511      Deleted by Ord. #98-06-19, July 1998
slugs in meters
Unlawful to deface
or tamper with       9-512      Deleted
meters or limited-
time parking signs
Handicapped drivers
and passengers       9-513      15-614
parking
Parking in a fire
lane or in front of  9-514      Deleted
a fire hydrant
Presumption with
respect to illegal   9-515      Deleted
parking
Purpose                        15-601
Authorization                  15-602
Definitions                    15-603
Administration and             15-604
enforcement
Applicability                  15-605
Parking prohibited             15-606
on certain streets
Parking requirements           15-607
Parking space                  15-609
limitations
Metered parking                15-612
City parking lots              15-615
Commercial or fleet            15-616
vehicles
Parade route or                15-617
event venue
All night parking;
abandonment and                15-618
junked vehicles
Trucks                         15-619
ENFORCEMENT
Impoundment of       9-601      15-704 , amended by Ord. #O17-10-   19, Dec.
vehicles                        2017
Issuance of traffic  9-602      15-701
citations
Failure to obey      9-603      15-702
citation
Citations for        9-604      15-703
illegal parking
Failure to comply
with parking         9-605      15-705
citations
Acceptance of
driver's license in  9-606      Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
lieu of bail for
traffic violations
GENERALLY
Certain offenses
declared to be       10-101     11-101
misdemeanors
Penalty for          10-102     11-102
misdemeanor
ENUMERATED
Assault and battery  10-201     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Disturbing the peace 10-2.02    11-201
Disorderly houses    10-203     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Immoral conduct      10-204     Deleted
Exposing minors to   10-205     Deleted
harmful materials
Indecent exposure    10-206     11-502
Window peeping       10-207     Deleted
Profanity, etc.      10-208     Deleted
Disturbing tbe       10-209     11-203
municipal court
Illegal voting       10-210     11-503
Vote soliciting at   10-211     11-504
polling places
Escape from custody  10-212     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
or confinement
Resisting or
interfering with a   10-213     11-507
police officer
Impersonating an     10-214     Deleted
officer
Discharging firearms 10-215     11-303
Air rifles, etc.     10-216     11-301
Missiles             10-217     11-302
Gambling             10-218     Deleted
Promotion of         10-219     Deleted
gambling
Possession of
federal wagering     10-220     Deleted
stamp
Jumping or hanging   10-221     11-404
on motor vehicles
False emergency      10-222     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
alarms
Loitering            10-223     Deleted
Prowling             10-224     Deleted
Vagrancy             10-225     Deleted
Trespassing on       10-226     11-401
trains
Curfew for minors    10-227     Deleted
Malicious mischief   10-228     11-402 (Renamed)
Posting notices,     10-229     Deleted
etc.
Public drunkenness   10-231     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
Drinking beer,
alcoholic beverages, 10-232     11-601
on streets, etc.
                              (Amended by Ord. #015-08-20, August 2015;
                                Amended by Ord. #O23- 12-25, Jan. 2024)
City of Cookeville              11-602
conceived and                  (Added by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan. 2024)
produced event
Anti-noise           10-233     11-202
regulations
                    (Amended by Ord. #O18-02-03, March 2018)
Interference with    10-234     11-403
traffic
Smoking in city-     10-235     11-505
owned buildings
MUNICIPAL PLANNING COMMISSION
Membership           11-101     14-101
Organization,        11-102     14-102
powers, duties, etc.
Additional powers    11-103     14-103
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Administration and   11-401     Chapter deleted by Ord.# 001-11-15, Dec. 2001
enforcement
Building permits     11-402      
required
Application for      11-403      
building permit
Certificate of
occupancy for a      11-404      
building
Expiration of        11-405      
building permit
Construction and use
to be provided in    11-406      
application, plans,
and permits
Board of zoning      11-407      
appeals: Procedure
Board of zoning
appeals: Powers and  11-408      
duties
Appeals from the
board of zoning      11-409      
appeals
Duties of blinding
inspector, board of
zoning appeals, city 11-410      
council, and courts
on matters of appeal
Fees, charges, and   11-411      
expenses
Amendments           11-412      
Provisions of
ordinances declared  11-413      
to be minimum
requirements
Complaints procedure 11-414      
Violations and       11-415      
penalties
PROPERTY NUMBER MAPPING SYSTEM
Property number
mapping system       11-501     14-301
adopted
Copies available at
the department of    11-502     14-302
planning and
engineering
Responsibility of
owner to display     11-503     14-303
number
Misdemeanor to fail  11-504     14-304
to display number
Each day separate    11-505     14-305
offense
EXCAVATIONS AND CUTS
Permit required      12-101     Replaced by Ord# 002-01-01, Feb. 2002
Applications         12-102      
Fee                  12-103      
Deposit or bond      12-104      
Manner of
excavating-
barricades and       12-105      
lights-temporary
sidewalks
Restoration of       12-106      
streets, etc.
Insurance            12-107      
Time limits          12-108      
Supervision          12-109      
Driveways and        12-110      
entrances
Policy for the
construction and
improvement of       12-111      
streets and rights-
of-way
MISCELLANEOUS
Obstructing street,
alleys, or sidewalks 12-201     Replaced by Ord.# 002-01-01, Feb 2002
prohibited
Trees projecting
over streets, etc.   12-202      
regulated
Trees, etc.,
obstructing view at  12-203      
intersections
prohibited
Projecting signs and
awnings, etc.,       12-204      
restricted
Banners and signs
across streets and   12-205      
alleys prohibited
Gates or doors
opening over         12-206      
streets, alleys, or
sidewalks prohibited
Littering streets,
alleys, or sidewalks 12-207      
prohibited
Obstruction of       12-208      
drainage ditches
Abutting occupants
to keep sidewalks    12-209      
clean, etc.
Parades,
demonstrations,
competitions, or     12-210      
exhibitions
regulated
Operation of trains
at crossings         12-211     Deleted
regulated
Animals and vehicles 12-213     Replaced by Ord.# 002-01-01, Feb. 2002
on sidewalks
Fires in streets,    12-214      
etc.
Official city map    12-215      
Parks are open to
the public at large;
a special use event             16-701, replaced by Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018,
permit is required   12-216     amended by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan. 2024
for special use
event at Dogwood
Performance Pavilion
Operating hours of
parks, city-         12-217     16-702, replaced by Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018
maintained grounds,
and pubhc areas
Rules and                       16-703, amended by Ord. #O17-07-14, July 2017,
regulations for city 12-218     replaced by Ord. #O18-06-16, June 2018, amended
parks                           by Ord. #O23-12-25, Jan. 2024
Authority of park    12-219     16-704, replaced by Ord. #O18- 06-16, June 2018
manager
WATER SERVICES ORDINANCE
Definitions          13-101     18-101
Applications for     13-102     18-102
water service
Unauthorized water   13-103     18-103
taps
Tampering with water 13-104     18-104
facilities, etc.
Point of delivery
for water service;
responsibility for   13-105     18-105
installation and
maintenance of
facilities
Interruption of      13-106     18-106
water service
Uses of water
causing disturbances 13-107     18-107
to the system
Fluoridation of      13-108     18-108
water supply
Water main                      18-109
extensions and       13-109     Replaced by Ord. # O12-06-14 June 2012
connections
Water connection                18-110
charges              13-110     Replaced by Ord. #O12-06-15 June 2012 and
                                amended by Ord. #O23-11- 21 Dec. 2023
Connections for fire 13-111     18-111
protection
Water hydrant and    13-112     18-112
sprinkler charges
Cross-connections,
auxiliary intakes,   13-113     18-113
etc.
Access to customer's
premises for reading 13-114     18-114
meters, etc.
Application fees
required for water   13-115     18-115
and/or sewer service
Application fee                18-116 Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
exemption
Meter tests          13-122     18-117
Adjustment of bills
due to leakage or    13-123     18-118
wastage
Billings, failure to
pay, discontinuance  13-124     18-119
of service
Service charges      13-125     18-120  Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
                                18-121
Water rate schedule  13-126     Amended by Ord. #O19-03-01, March 2019, Ord.
                                #O20-04-06, April 2020, and Ord. #O-24-05-13,
                                June 2024
Wholesale water      13-127     18-122
rates
Applicability of
rules and            13-128     18-123
regulations
Miscellaneous        13-129     18-124
provisions
GAS
Definitions          13-201     19-201
Standard service     13-202     19-202
Non-standard service 13-203     19-203
Application for
service; extension   13-204     19-204
policies
Application fees
required for gas     13-205     19-205
service
Application fee                19-206 Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
exemption
Contract and                    19-207
guarantee                      Replaced by Ord. #O15-10-28 October 2015
requirements
Point of delivery    13-211     19-208
Customers' piping
and installation     13-212     19-209
standards
Right of access      13-213     19-210
Customers'
responsibility for   13-214     19-211
gas department
property
Billing              13-215     19-212
Discontinuance of    13-216     19-213
service
Termination of       13-217     19-214
service by customer
Interruption of      13-218     19-215
service
Additional load      13-219     19-216
Notice of trouble    13-220     19-217
Meter tests          13-221     19-218
Restricted use of    13-222     19-219
gas
Billing adjusted to  13-223     19-220
standard periods
Rate schedules for              19-221
gas service          13-224     Amended by Ord. #O20-01-01, Feb. 2020, and Ord.
                                #O20-04-06, April 2020
Purchased gas        13-225     19-222
adjustment
Rate schedules       13-225.1   19-223
definitions
Applicability of     13-226     19-224
chapter
Service charges                19-225; Amended by Ord. #O20-04-06, April 2020;
                                Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
ELECTRICITY
Application for      13-301     19-101
service
Point of delivery    13-302     19-102
Customer's wiring-   13-303     19-103
standards
Inspections          13-304     19-104
Underground power    13-305     19-105
fines
Customer's
responsibility for
electric             13-306     19-106
department's
property
Right of access      13-307     19-107
Billing              13-308     19-108
Discontinuance of
service by the       13-309     19-109
electric department
Disconnect or        13-310     Deleted by Ord.# 002-06-16, June 2002
reconnection charge
Termination of       13-311     19-110
contract by customer
Service charges for  13-312     19-111
temporary service
Interruption of      13-313     19-112
service
Voltage fluctuations
caused by the        13-314     19-113
customer
Additional load      13-315     19-114
Standby and resale   13-316     19-115
service
Notice of trouble    13-317     19-116
Non-standard service 13-318     19-117
Meter tests and      13-319     19-118
reading checks
Relocation of        13-320     19-119
facilities
Billing adjusted to  13-321     19-120
standard periods
Tampering with
electric             13-322     19-121
department's
property
Attachments to
electric             13-323     19-122
department's poles
Application fees                19-123
required for         13-324     Replaced by Ord. #O16-07-18 August 2016
electric service
Application fee                19-124 Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
exemption
Guarantee and
contract required    13-325     19-125 (Modified)
for electric service            Replaced by Ord. #O15-10-28 October 2015
greater than 50KW
Service charges                19-126 Amended by Ord. #O20-11-18, Nov. 2020
Electric service     13-326     Replaced by Ord. #002-06-016, June 2002
connection charge
Scope                13-331     19-127
                                Replaced by Ord. #O15-10-28 October 2015
Conflict             13-332     19-128
Violations           13-333     19-129
Shortage of          13-334     19-130
electricity
SEWER USE ORDINANCE
(Repealed and replaced by Ord. #O17-09-17, October 2017)
Purpose and policy   13-401     18-201
Scope and            13-402     18-202 (Replaced by Ord. #O12-06-16 June, 2012)
apphcability
Definitions and      13-403     18-203  Amended by Ord. #O22-10-24, November
abbreviations                   2022
General regulations  13-404     18-204
Domestic use         13-405     18-205
requirements
Industrial and
commercial use       13-406     18-206
requirements
Charges and fees     13-407     18-207  Amended by Ord. #O22-10-24, November
                                2022
                                18-208
Administration       13-408     Amended by Ord. #O19-03-01, March 2019; Ord.
                                #O22-10-24, November 2022; and Ord. #O-24-05-
                                13, June 2024
Private sewage
disposal and holding 13-409     18-209
tank wastes
Sewer construction   13-410     18-210
and connection
Enforcement          13-411     18-211
Miscellaneous        13-413     18-212
provisions
BURGLARY AND ROBBERY ALARMS
Title                13-501     20-301
Definitions          13-502     20-302
Classification of    13-503     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
alarm systems
Class II alarm       13-504     Deleted
systems
Class III alarm      13-505     Deleted
systems
Class IV alarm       13-506     Deleted
systems
Class V alarm        13-507     Deleted
systems
Alarm system
requirements,        13-508     20-303
generally
Permits required     13-509     20-304
Permit application   13-510     20-305
Issuance of permit   13-511     Deleted by Ord. #001-11-16, Feb. 2002
and decal
Permit fees          13-512     20-306
Terms of permit and  13-513     20-307
renewal
Inspection of alarm  13-514     20-308
systems
Current information  13-515     20-309
required
Determination of     13-516     20-310
false alarm
Malicious false      13-517     20-311
alarm
Appeals              13-518     20-312
Fee assessment       13-519     20-313
Notices              13-520     20-314
Penalty              13-521     20-315
PUBLIC RECORDS
Fees for inspection             1-302, 1-303, amended by Ord. #011-08-15, Sept.
and copying of       - -        2011
public records
FARMER'S MARKET                 
                              9-1101 - 9-1107, added by Ord. #12-03-03, May
                                2012
EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REGULATIONS
                                Title 14, Chapter 5 replaced by Ord. #O13-01-
                                01, January 2013, and amended by Ord. #O16-07-
                              18, August 2016, Ord. #O18-01-01, March
                                2018,Ord. #O18-10-27, December 6, 2018' Ord.
                                #024-06-18, July 18, 2024
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
                                Title 14, Chapter 7 added by Ord. #004-06-11,
                                July 2004, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01, Feb.
                              2015, Ord. #O16-07-18, August 2016, Ord. #O16-
                                09-21, November 2016, and Ord. #O17-06-13,
                                August 2017; Ord. #O24-06-18, July 18, 2024
RIPARIAN BUFFER ZONES
                                Title 14, Chapter 8 added by Ord. #08-01-02,
                              Feb. 2008, and amended by Ord. #015-01-01, Feb.
                                2015; Ord. #O24-06-18, July 18, 2024
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
                                9-1201 - 9-1211, added by Ord. #O16-10-23,
                              March 2017, replaced by Ord. #O18-10-30,
                                November 2018
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
                              16-801 - 16-811, added by Ord. #O17-09-16,
                                October 2017
ON-CALL WRECKER SERVICE
                              15-801 - 15-814, added by Ord.
                                #O17- 10-19, Dec. 2017)
                                5-701 - 5-713,
HOTEL/MOTEL TAX                added by Ord. #O19-07-10, Aug. 2019, amended by
                                Ord. #O21-01-01, Jan. 2021
ENERGY CONSERVATION            12-801 amended by Ord. #O20-11-19, Nov. 2020
CODE
RESIDENTIAL PARKING            15-901 - 15-918, added by Ord. #O20-09-16, Oct.
DISTRICTS                       2020
PURCHASING                     5-101, amended by Ord. #O22-11-28, Dec. 2022
TEMPORARY STREET               16-901 - 16-915, added by #O22-12-29, Dec. 2022
CLOSURES   
PUBLIC PROPERTIES              8-501 - 8-508 added by #O24-08-20, August 2024
AND PUBLIC STREETS
                               
 
 
