ASHE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-38 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 7-15-24
State legislation current through 2023 Legislative Service Pamphlet No. 6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   General Provisions
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Ashe shall be
designated as the Code of Ashe County and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions authorizing county to adopt and issue a code of ordinances,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS, or BOARD. The Board
of Commissioners or governing body of Ashe County, North Carolina.
   CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This county code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Ashe County, North Carolina.
   G.S. The General Statutes of North Carolina, as amended.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority of such
persons or officers.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COM- MISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The state of North Carolina.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of County Commissioners or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this county for the transaction of all county
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the County Board of Commissioners requiring
publication shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof,
unless otherwise expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall
take effect from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the County Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any
existing chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be
specifically repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired
amendment, substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
12-3) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-
1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit or other
right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map;
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature;
   (B)   And all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of County
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement [i.e.,
American Legal Publishing Corporation]) may make formal, nonsubstantive changes
in ordinances and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it
is necessary to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the
codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivision;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles of sections and
other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections       to      ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The punishment for all violations of any existing county ordinances,
as well as county ordinances that shall be passed in the future, shall be the
maximum allowed by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 5-19-93)
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) of this section, any
provision of this code or other ordinance of the county may be enforced by any
one or more of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions authorizing county to punish ordinance violations as
misdemeanors, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.     EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
31.     TAXATION
         
32.     COUNTY POLICIES
         
33.     CRIMINAL HISTORY AND MOTOR VEHICLE RECORD CHECK
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
State of Emergency
   
30.01   Territorial applicability
   
30.02   Public proclamation of emergency
   
30.03   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
30.04   Evacuation
   
30.05   Curfew
   
30.06   Restrictions on alcoholic beverages
   
30.07   Restrictions on dangerous weapons and substances
   
30.08   Restrictions on access to areas
   
30.09   Other restrictions and prohibitions
   
30.10   Termination of emergency, removal of restrictions or prohibitions
   
30.11   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
30.12   Termination of proclamation
   
30.13   Disability of chairperson
Emergency Management Agency
   
30.25   Short title
   
30.26   Intent and purpose
   
30.27   Definitions
   
30.28   Organization and appointments
   
30.29   Duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator
   
30.30   Emergency management plans
   
30.31   No municipal or private liability
   
30.32   Conflicting rules and regulations
   
30.33   Violations
 
   
30.99   Penalty
STATE OF EMERGENCY
§ 30.01 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply within the corporate limits of any municipality,
or within any area of the county over which the municipality has jurisdiction
to enact general police power ordinance, fully and to the same extent as
elsewhere in the county.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.02 PUBLIC PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of any existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
county or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of
property, the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized
and empowered under G.S. § 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation declaring to
all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the county, to
place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of such restriction to any area
specifically designated or described within the county and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such restriction, while
acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties, law
enforcement officers, firemen and other public employees, rescue squad members,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operating for profit;
and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare
needs of people within the county.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.03 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners by proclamation may
impose the prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
30.04 through
30.09 of this subchapter in the manner described in those sections. The
Chairperson may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions
as he finds necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level
of public order and services, and to protect lives, safety, and property. The
Chairperson shall recite his findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Chairperson shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse. The
Chairperson shall send reports of the substance of the proclamation to the mass
communications media which serves the affected area. The Chairperson shall
retain a text of the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of
it.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.04 EVACUATION.
   The Chairperson may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the county, to prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destination in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress of
a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and the occupance of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of
people whose exemption the Chairperson finds necessary for the preservation of
the public health, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the
exempted classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Chairperson by proclamations
removes the curfew.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.06 RESTRICTIONS ON ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor other than on one's own
premises, and may prohibit transfer, transportation, sale or purchases of any
alcoholic beverage within the area of the county described in the proclamation.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic beverages by
employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by anyone else within
the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.07 RESTRICTIONS ON DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. 14-288.8 (c) (5), gasoline,
or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property.
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or
substance will be so used.
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circum-stances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (B)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one's own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Chairperson may exempt from some or all of the restrictions
classes of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the
public's health, safety, or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted
classes and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the county or such part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.08 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any areas, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Sheriff and his subordinates or other law enforcement officers when
directed in the proclamation to do so by the Chairperson. When acting under
this authority, the Sheriff and his subordinates may restrict or deny access to
any area, street, highway or location within he County if that restriction or
denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made
to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.09 OTHER RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.10 TERMINATION OF EMERGENCY; REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS OR PROHIBITIONS.
   The Chairperson shall by proclamation terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.11 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Chairperson in his/her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this subchapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
30.03.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.12 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this ordinance shall expire five days after
its last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same
procedures set forth in §
30.03.
§ 30.13 DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-
Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners, or such other Commissioner as may be
designated by the Board of Commissioners, shall have and exercise all of the
powers herein given the Chairperson.
(Ord. passed - -90)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 30.25 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Emergency Management Ordinance for the County of Ashe.”
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.26 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to establish an office
that will insure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county's
resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other disasters as
defined herein.
   (B)   The Office of Emergency Management will be the coordinating agency for
all activity in connection with emergency management, it will be the instrument
through which the Board of Commissioners may exercise the authority and
discharge the responsibilities vested in them during disaster emergencies.
   (C)   This subchapter will not relieve any county department of the moral
responsibilities or authority given to it in the county Charter or by local
ordinances, not will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency
organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.27 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the county, its government, its
environs, or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, terrorism or sabotage.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency, appointed
as prescribed in this subchapter.
   DISASTER. Includes but is not limited to actual or threatened enemy attack,
sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident, chemical spill
or other impending or actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger
health, life or property of constituted government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The basic government functions of maintaining the
public peace, health and safety during an emergency. This term shall include
plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof, or a disaster as defined therein. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all
county departments, boards, councils, institutions and commissions; and in
addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities
contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified and
appointed by the Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency and assigned to
participate in the emergency management activity.
   REGULATIONS. Includes plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
   VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment or facilities to the Emergency
Management Agency without remuneration.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.28 ORGANIZATION AND APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An agency of emergency management within the executive department
of the county government under the direction of the Board of Commissioners. The
agency head of the Emergency Management Agency shall be known as the
Coordinator, and such assistants and other employees as are deemed necessary
for the proper functioning of the agency will be appointed.
      (2)   The employees and resources of all county departments, boards,
institutions, and councils shall participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to county departments shall be the same as or
similar to the normal duties of the department, where possible.
      (3)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and accepted
by the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Coordinator of the
Emergency Management Agency who shall be a person well versed and trained in
planning operations involving the activities of many different agencies which
will operate to protect the public health, safety and welfare in the event of
danger from enemy action or disaster as defined in this subchapter.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall designate and appoint deputy coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the coordinator in the event of his absence or
inability to act.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.29 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners in
regard to all phases of emergency management activity. The Coordinator shall be
responsible for the planning, coordination and operation of the emergency
management activities in the county. The Coordinator shall maintain liaison
with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions so as to insure the most effective operation the emergency
management plans.
   (B)   The Coordinator's duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes.
      (2)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of building or other property for the use of such building or other
property for the emergency management purposes and designating suitable
buildings as public shelters.
      (4)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of enemy attack or disaster as defined herein, either impending or
present.
      (5)   Conducting public practice alerts to insure the efficient operation
of the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with emergency
management regulations, procedures and operations.
      (6)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency management activities.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.30 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the Board of Commissioners. In the preparations of
these plans as it pertains to county organization, it is intended that the
services, equipment and facilities and personnel of all existing departments
and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When approved, it shall
be the duty of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned
by these plans and to maintain their portions of the plans in a current state
of readiness at all times. These plans shall have the effect of law whenever a
disaster, as defined in this subchapter, has been proclaimed.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those positions
within the disaster organization, in addition to his own, for which lines of
succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person will
designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of three persons
as successors to his position. The list will be in order of succession and will
as nearly as possible designate persons best capable of carrying out all
assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and where needed volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the standing
operating procedure to implement the plans for his service.
   (D)   Amendments to these plans shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the Board of
Commissioners with his recommendation for their approval. Such amendments shall
take effect 30 days from the date of approval.
   (E)   When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek assistance
from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out such duties prior to, during, and after the
occurrence of a disaster. Such services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by local government on a volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.31 NO MUNICIPAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the county of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and
neither the county nor agents and representatives of same, or any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, or any of
the agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any persons owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the county the right to inspect,
designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending or
practice disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any persons on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission; or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.32 CONFLICTING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all
existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. passed - -90)
§ 30.33 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this subchapter or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained herein, or
to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency management
organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the provisions of this
subchapter or any plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed - -90) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by the maximum fine provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -90)
CHAPTER 31: TAXATION
Section
Occupancy Tax
   
31.01   Levy of tax
   
31.02   Collection
   
31.03   Administration
   
31.04   Use of tax revenue
Motor Vehicle Lease/Rental Tax
   
31.15   Tax on gross receipts derived from retail short-term lease or rental of
motor vehicles
   
31.16   Administration
   
31.17   Payment of taxes and filing of returns
 
   
31.99   Penalty
OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 31.01 LEVY OF TAX.
   The Board of Commissioners may by ordinance or resolution, after not less
than ten days notice and public hearing, levy a room occupancy tax of 3% of the
gross receipts derived from the rental of any room, lodging, or accommodation
furnished by a hotel, motel, inn, tourist camp, or similar place within the
county that is subject to the sales tax imposed by the state under G.S. § 105-
164.4(a)(3). This tax is in addition to any state or local sales tax. This tax
does not apply to accommodations furnished by nonprofit charitable,
educational, or religious organizations, or to summer camps for minors.
(Ord. passed 7-17-91)
§ 31.02 COLLECTION.
   Every operator of a business subject to the tax levied under this chapter
shall, on and after the effective date of the levy of the tax, collect the tax.
This tax shall be collected as part of the charge for furnishing a taxable
accommodation. The tax shall be stated and charged separately from the sales
records, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the operator of the business as
trustee for and on account of the county. The tax shall be added to the sales
price and shall be passed on to the purchaser instead of being borne by the
operator of the business. The county shall design, print, and furnish to all
appropriate businesses and persons in the county the necessary forms for filing
returns and instructions to ensure the full collection of the tax.
(Ord. passed 7-17-91)
§ 31.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The county shall administer the tax levied under this chapter. A tax levied
under this chapter is due and payable to the County Finance Officer in monthly
installments on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in
which the tax accrues. Every person, firm, corporation, or association liable
for the tax shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare and
render a return on a form prescribed by the county. The return shall state the
total gross receipts derived in the preceding month from rentals upon which the
tax is levied. A return filed under this chapter with the County Finance
Officer is not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1, and may not be
disclosed except as required by law.
(Ord. passed 7-17-91)
§ 31.04 USE OF TAX REVENUE.
   The county shall, on a quarterly basis, distribute one-third of the net
proceeds of the tax levied under this chapter to the Ashe County Chamber of
Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce may use funds distributed to it under this
chapter only to promote travel and tourism in Ashe County, and for no other
purpose. The county may use the remaining two-thirds of the revenue received
under this chapter for any public purpose.
(Ord. passed 7-17-91)
MOTOR VEHICLE LEASE/RENTAL TAX
§ 31.15 TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS DERIVED FROM RETAIL SHORT-TERM MOTOR VEHICLE
LEASES OR RENTALS.
   The county hereby imposes and levies a tax of 1½% of the gross receipts from
the short-term lease or rental of vehicles at retail to the general public as
authorized by G.S. § 153A-156.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 31.16 ADMINISTRATION.
   The county will administer and collect from operators of leasing and rental
establishments, the taxes levied hereby, and the county may promulgate
additional rules and regulations necessary for the implementation of the taxes.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 31.17 PAYMENT OF TAXES AND FILING OF RETURNS.
   The taxes levied hereby are due and payable to the county in monthly
installments on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month of
which the tax accrues. Every taxable establishment required to collect the tax
shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare and render a
return to the county. The county shall design, print, and furnish the necessary
forms for filing returns and instructions to insure the full collection of the
tax. A return filed for this purpose is not a public record as defined by G.S.
§ 132-1, and may not be disclosed except as required by law.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, firm, corporation, or association who fails or refuses to
file the return required by §§
31.01 through
31.04 shall pay a penalty of $10 for each day's omission. In case of failure or
refusal to file the return or pay the tax for a period of 30 days after the
time required for filing the return or for paying the tax, there shall be an
additional tax, as a penalty, of 5% of the tax due in addition to any other
penalty, with an additional tax of 5% for each additional month or fraction
thereof until the tax is paid. The Board of Commissioners, may for good cause
shown, compromise or forgive the additional tax penalties imposed by §§
31.01 through
31.04. Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax imposed
under §§
31.01 through
31.04, or who willfully fails to pay the tax or make and file a return shall,
in addition to all other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1000, imprisonment not to
exceed six months, or both.
(Ord. passed 7-17-91)
   (B)   (1)   Failure to pay tax. In case of failure or refusal to file a
return or pay the tax set forth in §§
31.15 through
31.17 for a period of 30 days after the time required for filing the return or
payment of the tax, there shall be an additional tax, as a penalty, of 5% of
the tax due, with an additional tax of 5% for each additional month or fraction
thereof until the tax is paid. The County Board of Commissioners may, for good
cause shown, compromise or forgive any penalty or additional tax imposed
hereunder.
      (2)   Misdemeanor for willful violation. Any person, firm, corporation or
association who willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax imposed herein
or who willfully fails to pay the tax or make and file a return shall, in
addition to the penalties provided by law and herein, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
CHAPTER 32: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Use of Tobacco and Nicotine Vapor Prohibited on Certain County Property
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Tobacco use restricted in county buildings
   
32.03   Violations
Firearms and Concealed Weapons on County  Property Prohibited
   
32.10   Firearms prohibited in county buildings
   
32.11   Firearms prohibited on other county property
   
32.12   Posting and location of signs
   
32.13   Hunting and discharge of firearms or explosives prohibited
USE OF TOBACCO AND NICOTINE VAPOR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN COUNTY PROPERTY
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDIS. Small, thin hand-rolled cigarettes, often flavored, imported to the
United States, having very high concentrations of nicotine, tar and carbon
monoxide.
   COUNTY FACILITY. Any facility occupied by County Government.
   E-CIGARETTE. Any electronic oral device, such as one composed of heating
element, battery, and/or electronic circuit, which produces a vapor or nicotine
or any other substances, and the use of inhalation of which simulates smoking.
The term shall include any such device, whether manufactured, distributed,
marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-cigar, e-pipe, or any other product name
or descriptor.
   LOCAL VEHICLE. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by local government and assigned permanently or
temporarily by local government to local government employees, agencies,
institutions, or facilities for official local government business. Tobacco use
in vehicles is prohibited in the Vehicle Use Policy section of the Ashe County
Personnel Policy.
   SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar or any
other lighted tobacco product.
   TOBACCO. Cigarettes, cigars, bidis, pipes, chewing tobacco, snuff and other
items containing tobacco or tobacco products.
   TOBACCO PRODUCT. Cigarettes, cigars, blunts, bidis, pipes, chewing tobacco,
smokeless tobacco, snuff or any other items containing tobacco.
   TOBACCO USE. Smoking, chewing, dipping or any other use of tobacco products.
(Ord. passed 9-15-93; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-15)
§ 32.02 TOBACCO USE RESTRICTED IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   It is the policy of Ashe County that smoking and the use of other tobacco
products and/or e-cigarettes is prohibited in all county buildings and within
50 linear feet of the buildings wherein the Department of Social Services is
housed. This policy applies to all employees, volunteers, interns, clients,
contractors, vendors, visitors and any other individuals entering the
facilities. Per G.S. 14-258.1, the Ashe County Jail may give or sell vapor
products or FDA-approved tobacco cessation products, such as over-the-counter
nicotine replacement therapies, including nicotine gum patches, and lozenges,
to inmates while in the custody of the jail.
(Ord. passed 9-15-93; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-15)
§ 32.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of §
32.02 shall be punishable as follows: first offense, formal warning. Future
violations are subject to graduated civil penalties in amounts of $25 for first
violation, $50 for second violation and $100 for third and subsequent
violations. Violations of §
32.02 shall not constitute a misdemeanor or infraction punishable under G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 9-15-93; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-15)
FIREARMS AND CONCEALED WEAPONS ON COUNTY PROPERTY PROHIBITED
§ 32.10 FIREARMS PROHIBITED IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   Except for authorized individuals as defined in G.S. § 14-269(b), no person
may possess, carry or display any firearm, concealed or unconcealed, in any
county building. The County Manager is hereby directed to post appropriate
signage at the entrance of any county buildings subject to this section.
(Ord. passed 10-18-04; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-12)
§ 32.11 FIREARMS PROHIBITED ON OTHER COUNTY PROPERTY.
   Except as authorized by G.S. § 14-269(b), no person may possess, carry, or
display an unconcealed firearm at any of the following locations:
   (A)   Ashe County Park.
   (B)   Beaver Creek Industrial Park Field.
   (C)   Family Central Gymnasium.
   (D)   Family Central Ball Field.
(Ord. passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. passed 6-16-14)
§ 32.12 POSTING AND LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   The County Manager is hereby directed to post appropriate signage on each
building, park, or other recreational facilities covered by this subchapter.
The signs shall be visibly posted on or near the exterior of any entrance into
buildings or any locations covered by this subchapter. For the purpose of this
subchapter, property that is owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied,
managed or controlled by the county within a pertinent premises shall be
considered county property.
(Ord. passed 11-6-95; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-12)
§ 32.13 HUNTING AND DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Discharging of firearms or explosives by unauthorized persons, or
hunting or trapping on any property owned or leased by the county shall not be
permitted. This shall not apply to persons authorized to carry and/or discharge
firearms on public property, as set out in G.S. § 14-269(b).
   (B)   The County Manager is hereby directed to post appropriate signage,
clearly visible to the public, on all county property intended to be regulated
by these provisions.
(Ord. passed 10-18-04 )
CHAPTER 33: CRIMINAL HISTORY AND MOTOR VEHICLE RECORD CHECK
Section
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Record search; candidate to provide personal information
   
33.03   Findings
   
33.04   Evaluation of findings
   
33.05   Verification of identity
   
33.06   Effective date
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the citizens of Ashe County and their properties, the
provisions of this chapter are established to provide for fingerprinting,
criminal history, and motor vehicle record checks on all prospective employees
of Ashe County. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, employment with Ashe
County may be denied with respect to those persons convicted of crimes against
a person, crimes against property where intent is an element, a drug or
gambling related offense, or certain motor vehicle offenses.
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
§ 33.02 RECORD SEARCH; CANDIDATE TO PROVIDE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   The Sheriff, or designee, shall conduct an investigation of any final
candidate for a part-time or full-time positions with Ashe County government.
It shall be a precondition of employment that an applicant, upon request,
provide necessary personal identification, including social security number and
drivers’ license, so that the Ashe County Sheriff, or designee, may cause a
thorough search to be made of local and state criminal records to determine
whether the applicant has a history of criminal convictions for the offenses
named above by use of the networks of the State Bureau of Investigation,
Division of Criminal Information (DCI).
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
§ 33.03 FINDINGS.
   The Ashe County Sheriff, or designee, shall provide the findings made by the
use of the DCI network to the Ashe County Manager, or designee, provided that
all necessary agreements with the State Bureau of Investigation have been
executed.
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
§ 33.04 EVALUATION OF FINDINGS.
   An evaluation of any offense for purposes of employment will take into
account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time of the
offense as they relate to the essential job functions for the position applied.
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
§ 33.05 VERIFICATION OF IDENTITY.
   No action to deny employment will be taken until the Ashe County Sheriff, or
designee, confirms the identity of the applicant by fingerprints through the
State Bureau of Investigation or a certified copy of the public record is
obtained.
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
§ 33.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 7-5-05)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.     SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Recovery of costs incurred in correction of violations
   
50.05   State Solid Waste Management Rules adopted
   
50.06   Provisions to be minimum requirements
   
50.07   Amendments
Storage and Disposal of Solid Waste
   
50.20   Approved storage and disposal
   
50.21   Open burning
   
50.22   Disposal of dead domesticated animals
   
50.23   Disposal of scrap tires
   
50.24   Use of county landfill, county convenience/recycling centers
   
50.25   Operation policies of county solid waste facilities
   
50.26   Use of recycling container sites
   
50.27   Testing of land where solid waste has been deposited
   
50.28   Closing of illegal dumps
Commercial Collection, Transport and Disposal; Licensing
   
50.40   Definitions
   
50.41   Authority to grant licenses
   
50.42   License required; exceptions
   
50.43   Licenses subject to provisions of ordinance, amendments to ordinance;
unauthorized licenses void
   
50.44   Application, issuance, revocation of license
   
50.45   License fee
   
50.46   Sale, transfer of license
   
50.47   Bond, insurance requirements for licensees
   
50.48   Responsibilities of licensee
   
50.49   Collection and transportation of waste
Fees
   
50.60   Authority to establish fees
   
50.61   Annual review
   
50.62   Formula for establishing fees
   
50.63   Fee application and remedy
   
50.64   Tipping fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.75   Enforcement
   
50.76   Equitable enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Ashe County Solid Waste Management
Ordinance.”
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the storage, collection,
transportation, and disposal of all forms of solid waste that is generated in
the county, to insure the proper safe handling and provide for the general
health of its citizens. This ordinance is adopted pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-121,
153A-132.1, and 153A-136.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
not specifically defined in this section shall be defined as set forth in the
State Solid Waste Management Rules, 10 NCAC 10 G, section .0100, as amended
from time to time.
   BOARD. The Ashe County Board of Commissioners.
   BULKY WASTE. Large items of solid waste such as household appliances,
furniture, automobiles, large automobile or vehicle parts, branches, stumps,
and other oversize waste, the large size that precludes or complicates its
handling by normal solid waste collection, processing or disposal methods.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste (or other materials that have
been separated for the purpose of recycling) from the point of generation to a
solid waste convenience center, processing facility, or disposal facility.
   COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by stores, offices,
restaurants, warehouses, and other non-manufacturing commercial activities.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. That portion of real estate, including appurtenances,
buildings or parts of buildings, over which the proprietor or managing agent of
a commercial business or operation has control by virtue of ownership, tenancy,
franchise or agency as to such property.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste resulting solely from
construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on buildings, or
other structures, but does not include inert debris, land-clearing debris, yard
debris, or used asphalt, asphalt mixed with dirt, sand gravel, rock, concrete,
or similar non-hazardous material.
   COUNTY SOLID WASTE FACILITY. All county owned and operated disposal
facilities including, but not limited to, the sanitary landfill, demolition
area, tire disposal area, convenience centers/recycling centers.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste into or on any land so that such solid waste or any
constituent thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or
discharged into any water, including ground waters.
   ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES DIRECTOR. The head of the Environmental Services
Department which includes, but is not limited to the county sanitary landfill,
animal shelter, convenience collection centers, and equipment maintenance
garage.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, including animal offal and carcasses, and
recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human waste.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A solid waste, or combination of solid waste that, because
of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD. A house, trailer, or any other type structure that is a residence
of the owner. (Note that a “Household” is different from a “Commercial Unit”).
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by industrial process and
manufacturing.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. A solid waste capable of generating an infectious disease.
The types of waste designated as infectious wastes are micro biological waste,
pathological waste, blood products, and sharps.
   INSTITUTIONAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated by educational, health
care, day care, correctional, and other institutional facilities.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Solid waste generated within the incorporated
municipalities that may originate from a commercial, industrial, or residential
source, that is collected by the towns or their consignees for the benefit of
the municipal residents and merchants.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTE. Solid waste capable of being decomposed by micro organism
with sufficient rapidity as to cause a nuisance from odor and gases, such as
kitchen waste, offal, and carcasses.
   RADIOACTIVE WASTE MATERIAL. Any waste containing radioactive material as
defined in G.S. § 104E-5(14).
   RECYCLING. The processes in which solid waste or recovered materials are
collected, separated, or processed, and reused or returned to use in the form
of raw materials or products.
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible waste.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. That portion of land, including appurtenances, buildings
or parts of buildings, trailers, or other livable structures, over which the
owner or resident has control by virtue of ownership of such property or by
being the occupant, tenants, lessee or lessor, of such property.
   SCRAP TIRE. A tire that is no longer suitable for its original intended
purpose because of wear, damage or defect.
   SOLID WASTE. Any hazardous or non-hazardous garbage, refuses, or sludge from
a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility; domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems, and other material
that is either discarded or is being accumulated, stored or treated prior to
being discarded, or has served its original intended use and is generally
discarded, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, institutional, commercial and agriculture
operations, and from community activities. The term does not include:
      (1)   Fowl and animal fecal waste;
      (2)   Solid or dissolved material in:
         (a)   Domestic sewage and sludge generated by the treatment thereof in
sanitary sewage collection, treatment and disposal systems which are designed
to discharge the effluents to the surface waters.
         (b)   Irrigation return flows; and
         (c)   Waste water discharges and sludge incidental thereto and
generated by the treatment thereof which are point sources subject to permits
granted under section 402 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Public
Law 92-500) as amended, and permits granted under G.S. § 143-215.1 by the
Environmental Management Commission; except that any sludge for the purposes of
this chapter that meets the criteria for hazardous waste under the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (Public Law 94-580), as amended, shall
also be a solid waste for purposes of this definition.
      (3)   Oils and other liquid hydrocarbons controlled under G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21A; except that such oils or other liquid hydrocarbons that meet
the criteria for hazardous waste under the Federal Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (Public Law 94-580), as amended, shall also be a solid waste for
the purpose of this chapter.
      (4)   Any radioactive material as defined by the State Radiation
Protection Act, G.S. §§ 104E-1 through 104E-28; or
      (5)   Mining refuse covered by The Mining Act of 1971, G.S. § 74-46-68,
and regulated by the State Mining Commission as defined under G.S. §§ 143B-290;
except that any specific mining waste that meets the criteria for hazardous
waste under the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (Public Law 94-
580), as amended, shall also be a solid waste for the purpose of this chapter.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any company, corporation, governmental unit, or
person who collects or transports solid waste by whatever means.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE OR SITES. Any place at which solid wastes are
disposed of by incinerators, sanitary landfill, demolition landfill or any
other acceptable method.
   SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLE. A large metal container used for the temporary
storage of solid waste and capable of being emptied into collection vehicles.
   TIRE. A continuous solid or pneumatic covering encircling the wheel of a
motor vehicle or farm machine as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(23).
   WHITE GOODS. Any inoperative or discarded refrigerators, unit air
conditioners, ranges, water heaters, freezers, and other similar domestic and
commercial large appliances.
   YARD WASTE. Solid waste consisting solely of vegetative matter resulting
from landscaping maintenance, including grass, leaves, branches and similar
organic material.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.04 RECOVERY OF COSTS IN CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to civil penalties in this chapter, any person who violates the
terms of this chapter, and such violation creates and causes an expense to the
county in correcting the violation, shall pay to the county the costs actually
incurred by the county in correcting the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.05 STATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT RULES ADOPTED.
   In addition to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the State Solid
Waste Management Rules as set forth in Chapter 10 of the State Administrative
Code, subchapter 10G, as amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated
into and are made a part of this chapter by reference. A violation of the State
Solid Waste Management Rules shall also be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.06 PROVISIONS TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for promotion of the public health, safety, moral, and general welfare
of the public. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted regulations the most restrictive
or that imposing the higher standards shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.07 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.20 APPROVED STORAGE AND DISPOSAL.
   No owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of any property shall deposit, store or
permit to accumulate any garbage or solid waste upon his property except in a
manner prescribed by this chapter.
   (A)   Solid waste or garbage shall not be deposited, stored or permitted to
accumulate on any property in such a manner that it provides food or harborage
for rodents or vermin or creates a fire or safety hazard.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of any property shall remove or
cause to be removed any garbage of a perishable or offensive nature that
creates an odor or nuisance condition at least once per week, unless stored in
a durable, rust resistant, non-absorbent, watertight container with a close
fitting cover in place.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person occupying any dwelling or dwelling
unit to place or leave outside of any dwelling or dwelling unit longer than 30
days any dilapidated furniture, icebox, refrigerator, stove or other
appliances, machinery, equipment, scrap building material or other item which
is either in a partially or wholly rusted, wrecked, junked, dismantled or
inoperative condition which, in the opinion of either the Environmental
Services Director or the Health Director, constitutes a potential public health
hazard. If a health hazard exists, the Department of Environmental Services or
the Health Department shall give the occupant or owner written notice that,
unless the potential hazard is not removed within 30 days, then prosecution
under this chapter will be instituted.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building
or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
airtight snap lock or other device thereon without first removing the snap lock
or doors from the icebox, refrigerator or any other container, except for
containers that are crated, strapped or locked to such an extent that it is
impossible for a child to obtain access to any airtight compartment thereof.
   (E)   No person shall throw, dump, deposit or cause to be thrown, dumped or
deposited solid waste on property owned by himself or another person; upon any
public highway, street or road; upon public land, parks or recreation areas; or
upon any other public property; except that property specifically designated
for that use.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of solid waste at any
place other than a manner approved by law. Acceptable means of solid waste
disposal include the following:
      (1)   Only residential waste shall be deposited in county owned
convenience/recycling centers.
      (2)   Contracting with a licensed solid waste collector.
      (3)   Hauling solid waste to the county landfill site, or to county owned
convenience/ recycling centers.
      (4)   Burning solid waste in an incinerator that has all required local,
state and federal air pollution control permits.
      (5)   Any other method, including reclamation and recycling processes,
that has been approved by the State Department of Health, Environment and
Natural Resources.
   (G)   Where there is more than one premise located in a residential building
or mobile home park, it shall be the responsibility of the owner or person in
charge to see that the residents of said building or mobile home park dispose
of their solid waste in a lawful manner consistent with one of the following:
pay the annual solid waste availability fees as established herein for each
residential unit or mobile home; contract with a licensed/permitted solid waste
collector; or the owner or person in charge may collect and transport solid
waste to the county sanitary landfill after meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Apply for and be approved by the county for the establishment of an
account for the purposes of billing and collection of appropriate solid waste
disposal fees and display the county identification numbers.
      (2)   Vehicles and containers used for the collection and transportation
of solid waste shall be properly secured, covered, leakproof, durable and
easily cleanable. They shall be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent a
nuisance and insect breeding and shall be maintained in good repair. Should
spillage occur, the material shall be recovered by the solid waste hauler and
returned to the vehicle or container, and the area properly cleaned.
      (3)   Any person collecting and transporting solid waste generated on his
own property for disposal at an approved disposal site shall comply with the
applicable section on vehicles and containers.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 12-20-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 OPEN BURNING.
   Open burning of solid waste is regulated by the North Carolina Forest
Service per applicable guidelines.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 DISPOSAL OF DEAD DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   In order to provide for the safe disposal of dead animals, one of the
following procedures shall be followed for animal owners in the county.
   (A)   Burial on the animal owner's property. If the cause of death can be
determined by the owner of the animal or a local veterinarian, the dead animal
should be buried on the land of the animal owner.
   (B)   Commercial firms. Disposal by a commercial processing firm.
   (C)   Transport to the county landfill. If the animal owner does not have
the equipment necessary to bury the animal, the body of the animal can be
disposed of at the county landfill for a fee of $15. The bodies of all animals
disposed of at the landfill must be disposed of according to instructions from
the employees of the landfill and at such locations as from time to time
determined by the employees of the landfill.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-14) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 DISPOSAL OF SCRAP TIRES.
   (A)   Scrap tires shall be disposed of only on a site approved by the Board
and only in such manner as provided by the Board.
   (B)   The Board may set reasonable fees for disposal of scrap tires, and all
persons or businesses disposing of scrap tires shall pay the established fee.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or businesses to dispose of scrap
tires in the county except as provided in this chapter. Each scrap tire
disposed of in violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 USE OF COUNTY LANDFILL, COUNTY CONVENIENCE/RECYCLING CENTERS.
   (A)   All persons or businesses using county solid waste facilities operated
by the county shall abide by the rules and regulations governing their use. A
violation of such rules and regulations shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   The county landfill and convenience/ recycling centers may be used for
the disposal of solid waste by county residents or non-resident home owners, as
well as occasional visitors traveling through. In emergency situations, the
solid waste facilities may be opened for additional hours beyond those
established by the Board of Commissioners, as may be directed by the County
Manager or his authorized representative. Except when open during pre-
established hours these facilities shall be kept locked and entry shall not be
permitted. Solid waste shall be disposed of at the landfill, conven-ience/
recycling centers in a manner and according to the procedures required by the
County Department of Environmental Services.
   (C)   No solid waste which has been collected by a contract hauler for a
fee, charge, tax, or other compensation shall be accepted at the convenience/
recycling center sites. Such waste shall be disposed of directly at the county
landfill.
   (D)   The following wastes shall not be disposed of in the county landfill.
      (1)   Radioactive waste.
      (2)   Hazardous waste.
      (3)   Burning and smoldering materials.
      (4)   Liquid waste.
      (5)   Used oil.
      (6)   Yard waste.
      (7)   White goods.
      (8)   Antifreeze.
      (9)   Aluminum cans.
      (10)    Slugs, offal.
      (11)    Land clearing debris, stumps, tree trunks, etc. shall be confined
to demolition field.
      (12)    Untreated regulated medical waste.
      (13)   Pallets.
      (14)   Plastic.
      (15)   Electronics.
      (16)   Tires.
      (17)   Batteries.
      (18)   Paint.
      (19)   Insecticides.
      (20)   Pesticides.
      (21)   Oil filters.
      (22)   Oyster shells.
      (23)   Fluorescent lights containing mercury.
   (E)   The following waste may be accepted at the landfill on a conditional
basis only: Sludges, barrels, sharps, asbestos, dead animals, land clearing
debris, stumps, tree trunks, scrap wood and scrap building material, springs,
wire, cable, bands, plastic packaging, and similar materials in large
quantities, or in lengths exceeding three feet.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-14; Am. Ord. passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord.
passed 7-1-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 OPERATION POLICIES OF COUNTY SOLID WASTE FACILITIES.
   The landfill, convenience/recycling centers located in the county shall be
operated according to the rules and regulations providing standards for solid
waste disposal adopted by the State Commission for Health Services, bulletin
no. 411. The operational requirements for a landfill, convenience/recycling
centers as outlined in the state administrative code, as amended from time to
time, are made a part of this chapter by reference. For clarification the list
of acceptable items at the convenience/recycling centers is synonymous with the
landfill (§
50.24) except that white goods and tires must be transported directly to the
landfill.
   (A)   The solid waste facilities are operated as authorized by the Board of
Commissioners under the supervision of the Environmental Services Director, or
his designee.
   (B)   Solid waste facilities shall be open on such schedule as may be
established by the Board of Commissioners. Facilities will be open to the
public only when a county employee or agent is on duty and the gate is open.
   (C)   All solid waste shall be deposited inside the designated areas or in
containers as prescribed by the attendant personnel.
   (D)   No person may remove any item from a convenience center container,
climb on or into a designated container, or willfully damage a container.
   (E)   Vehicles shall observe the posted speed limits or adhere to 5 m.p.h.
in the absence of such. They shall follow all other directional signs as well.
   (F)   Solid waste shall be observed and inspected for prohibited materials.
Persons delivering solid waste to the county solid waste facilities shall upon
request, disclose the full nature, content, and source of all materials
delivered. All solid waste delivered to the county solid waste facilities must
be separated into various categories and disposed of in the appropriate area.
Vehicles arriving with mixed loads will be instructed on the proper disposal
area(s). Solid waste will be accepted only in the appropriate disposal area.
Persons disposing of unacceptable materials may be required to remove such
materials at the discretion of the Director. All costs incurred by the county
for the removal of prohibited material shall be recoverable from the person
disposing and the person or persons generating such material.
   (G)   Solid waste shall be disposed of at these facilities in a manner as
prescribed by the Director or his designee. It shall be the responsibility of
persons generating solid waste to insure that it is disposed of in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-04; Am. Ord. passed 12-15-14)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 USE OF RECYCLING CONTAINER SITES.
   Container sites for recyclable materials provided throughout the county are
for use by residences and businesses alike within the unincorporated areas of
the county only; or by others as may be authorized by the Board of
Commissioners. Materials deposited in the containers such as cardboard boxes
and other packaging materials shall be reduced to its smallest volume by
bending breaking and compressing, before placing it into the containers.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 TESTING OF LAND WHERE SOLID WASTE HAS BEEN DEPOSITED.
   No building shall be erected on any land where there has been or is being
any garbage or solid waste deposited until tests are made of the property
showing there is no danger in the future of settling or explosion due to
methane gas being formed from the solid waste that has been deposited.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 CLOSING OF ILLEGAL DUMPS.
   Upon determination and notification by either the Environmental Services
Director or the Health Director, any person having an illegal dump shall take
the following corrective action:
   (A)   Implement effective rodent control measures for at least two weeks
after closing the dump to prevent rodent migration to adjacent properties, if
determined necessary by the Health Director.
   (B)   Compact and cover existing solid waste with at least two feet or more
of compacted earth approximately two weeks after any necessary rodent control
baiting.
   (C)   Implement erosion control measures by grading and seeding as
necessary.
   (D)   Post signs indicating the dump site closure.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
COMMERCIAL COLLECTION, TRANSPORT AND DISPOSAL; LICENSING
§ 50.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSE. A license to collect, transport or dispose of solid waste, issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.41 AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSES.
   For the purposes of providing for the proper collection, transportation,
recycling and disposal of solid waste, a license to provide such service will
be required by the county.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.42 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or business to engage in the
business of collecting, transporting and disposing of solid waste, outside of
any municipality, but within any area of the county, except under the authority
in full force and effect given by a license as provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to valid religious, charitable or civic
organizations which are collecting, transporting, recycling or disposing of
solid waste as a fund-raising project or as may otherwise fit the definition of
institutional garbage.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.43 LICENSES SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS OF ORDINANCE, AMENDMENTS TO ORDINANCE;
UNAUTHORIZED LICENSES VOID.
   Any and every license issued shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter, as amended from time to time, except any amendment that may be made
affecting the duration of a license existing at the time of the enactment of
the amendment. Any license transferred or assigned without the express written
authority of the Board shall be void and of no effect, and the collection of
solid waste thereunder is a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.44 APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All applicants for license to collect, transport, dispose or recycle
solid waste for any fiscal year (commencing July 1) shall file written
application with the County Manager on or before February 15 prior to the
beginning of the fiscal year and shall furnish the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and whether the applicant is
a sole proprietorship, corporation or partnership, with disclosure of all
ownership interest if requested by the County Manager.
      (2)   A list of equipment possessed, available or to be obtained by the
applicant.
      (3)   The number of employees the applicant expects to use in the
business.
      (4)   The experience of the applicant in solid waste collection.
      (5)   A balance sheet or equivalent financial statement prepared by a
certified public accountant or other person satisfactory to the Board, as to
the applicants last business year, showing the net worth of the business. All
financial data submitted in compliance with the requirements with this division
shall be confidential and shall not be regarded as public information.
      (6)   Planned routes and the area of the county the applicant expects to
serve.
      (7)   A schedule of fees the applicant plans to charge.
      (8)   Any other information the Board may reasonably request.
   (B)   Licensed haulers need only to pay annual license fees for renewal of
license.
   (C)   The Board reserves the right to withdraw any license upon satisfactory
proof of the inability of the licensee or upon the failure of the licensee to
properly perform the duties covered by the license contract in a proper and
satisfactory manner, after the licensee has been given an opportunity for a
hearing before the Board, by written notice setting out the time and place of
the hearing, at least ten days before the hearing.
   (D)   Before the county issues a license pursuant to this section, the
County Manager or his duly authorized representative shall determine that all
facilities, equipment and proposed operating methods that the applicant plans
to use in the solid waste collection business are in compliance with this
chapter and applicable regulations of the Department of Environment, Health and
Natural Resources.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.45 LICENSE FEE.
   The licensee shall pay to the county the sum of $100 for the issuance of
each license.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.46 SALE, TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license granted under the provisions of this chapter shall be sold,
assigned, pledged, or transferred, except after application to and written
approval by the Board, nor shall it be transferred by change of ownership or
control of a license without written application and written approval by the
Board.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.47 BOND, INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSEES.
   The applicant for a license, upon being awarded the rights to collect and
dispose of solid waste by the board as provided in this chapter, shall secure
and present to the County Manager a good and sufficient surety bond or
liability insurance policy covering and insuring the payment of such damages as
may be caused by the licensee to the premises or property upon which it may
enter for the purpose of collecting or disposing of solid waste, in the sum of
not less than $100,000, or such greater sum as deemed appropriate by the County
Manager and Environmental Services Director considering the size and capacity
of the licensee and the number of customers served. Furthermore, a certificate
of insurance shall be provided evidencing this coverage and the fact that the
applicant disclosed to the insurance carrier that the company or business
intends to haul solid waste as a commercial carrier. Such policy shall contain
a hold harmless clause indemnifying the county against claims made against the
licensee.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.48 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE.
   The licensee shall serve every person who contracts with it for solid waste
collection in such a manner that the licensee does not cause the person to be
in violation of this chapter. The licensee shall not discriminate against any
person for contract purposes in violation of the Civil Rights Act, as amended,
on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, or physical impairment.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.49 COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF WASTE.
   (A)   The licensee shall be responsible for the satisfactory collection and
transportation of all solid waste to a county operated landfill.
   (B)   Vehicles shall display, in three inch numbers and/or letters, in an
area visible on the driver's side door or on the left front fender, the county
issued identification numbers.
   (C)   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of
any solid waste shall be loaded and moved in such a manner that the contents
will not fall, leak or spill therefrom, and shall be adequately secured or
covered to prevent spillage therefrom. Should spillage occur the material shall
be recovered immediately by the solid waste hauler and returned to the vehicle
or container, and the area of spillage properly cleaned.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
FEES
§ 50.60 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH FEES.
   The County Board of Commissioners may establish a fee schedule for the
collection and disposal of solid waste and for the use and availability of a
disposal facility in accordance with G.S. § 153A-292 as may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.61 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The Board of Commissioners will assess the expenditure requirements of the
Department of Environmental Services for both solid waste collection and
disposal, during their budgeting deliberations every spring in order to arrive
at a revenue schedule that will adequately meet those needs. The annual review
process will include calculations to determine current general departmental
needs, as well as, look toward providing for anticipated future ones. This will
include, but may not be limited to capital outlay for the procurement of
equipment necessary to operate the department as well as the infrastructure
preparation needed in order to maintain compliance with applicable permits, in
addition to personnel and supplies required to perform routine operations.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.62 FORMULA FOR ESTABLISHING FEES.
   (A)   The price per ton of garbage will be determined by multiplying the
DISPOSAL BUDGET by the percentage of annual tonnage commercial, and dividing
that sum by the number of commercial tons received annually.
   (B)   The solid waste disposal fee will be similarly calculated by
multiplying the DISPOSAL BUDGET by the percentage of annual tonnage
residential, and dividing that sum by the number of non-municipal households.
   (C)   The solid waste DISPOSAL BUDGET consists of three distinct elements,
the sum of which form the basis for annually adjusting the tipping fees and
household fees to accurately reflect the actual cost of these services.
      (1)   Capital Outlay Construction which is calculated by multiplying the
average per acre construction cost of a subtitle D lined landfill facility, by
the number of acres, then multiplying that sum by Y, where Y equals the total
expected capacity divided into the actual tonnage used in a year.
      (2)   Capital Outlay Equipment which is the earth and garbage moving
machinery necessary to maintain daily operations of solid waste facilities
amortized over their powertrain warranty period (usually five years).
      (3)   Operations Expenses less amortized capital outlays which is account
codes 10.582.02 through 10.582.57 in the annual budget ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.63 FEE APPLICATION AND REMEDY.
   (A)   Every non-municipal residence is considered to be a household, along
with non-municipal commercial units, which shall be levied the solid waste
household availability fee as calculated annually in §
50.62 except that they apply for and receive approval for an unoccupied
dwelling affidavit with the County Tax Assessor's office within the prescribed
time limit. Non-municipal homeowners may receive refunds for this fee if they
can provide proof that they have made other disposal arrangements with a
private contract hauler. Paid receipts for the solid waste availability fee and
ones for money paid to a franchised private collector are sole grounds for
refund when produced as evidence of duplication of payment for the prior
calendar year.
   (B)   Request for release/refund of residential solid waste fee. All persons
requesting a release or refund of the solid waste disposal fee shall submit a
request form along with required information to the tax administration office.
Request will be reviewed before release/refund is approved of or made.
   (C)   Exclusion and appeals.
      (1)   Exclusions.
         (a)   The fees imposed by this subchapter shall be collected at a rate
of 50% of the solid waste disposal fee from those property owners excluded
under the provisions of G.S. § 105-277.1 as elderly applicants and disabled
applicants where the owner is either 65 years of age or older or is totally and
permanently disabled; and where the owner has made the required application and
has been approved for exclusion by the office of the Tax Assessor of the
county.
         (b)   The solid waste disposal fee will be waived on any residence
where the power has been disconnected for a period of eight months of the
calendar year or the residence is found to be unsound or condemned.
         (c)   No discounts shall be applied to the solid waste fee.
      (2)   Appeals.
         (a)   Property owners can appeal the solid waste disposal fee in
writing to the Ashe County Tax Administration Office by January 5 of the
following year for which the bill became due.
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear any request for appeals on
an as-needed basis.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-21)
§ 50.64 TIPPING FEES.
   The standard rate as outlined in §
50.62 shall be equally applicable to commercial, industrial, and municipal
wastes. Institutional waste as defined in §
50.03 shall be exempt from this fee. Separate fees apply to special handling
materials, such as tires and white goods.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
Cross-reference:
   Fees relating to the disposal of recyclables, see §
50.99(D)(7)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.75 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Environmental Services Director of the county shall administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The rules and regulations prescribed in this chapter shall be enforced
by the department head or other authorized personnel of the County Manager's
Office, Department of Environmental Services, District Health Department,
Sheriff's Department and any other appropriate agencies having duties and
responsibilities in the areas of health, solid waste disposal and law
enforcement. These agencies are hereby empowered to issue citations upon
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95)
§ 50.76 EQUITABLE ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by equitable remedy, and any
unlawful condition existing or in violation of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §
153A-123. In assessing penalties under this chapter, the Enforcing Officer
shall consider the following factors:
   (A)   The number of previous violations;
   (B)   The number of communications with the offender prior to the subject
violation;
   (C)   Steps taken by the person to try to comply;
   (D)   The estimated amount and quantity of solid waste in the offending
situation.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to and separate and apart from the specific remedies set
forth in this chapter, any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in G.S. 14-
4.
   (B)   If any person shall violate the rules and regulations adopted by the
County Commissioners or the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health
and Natural Resources, or their successor organization, they shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 14-4, and Article 1, Chapter 130A, Section
25. Each day such violations continue to exist shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   If any object of solid waste is discovered on any lands or waters of
the county, other than specifically designated for that use, bearing a person's
name, address or means of identification of a person or persons, it shall be
prima facie evidence of ownership, and after an attempt has been made to
contact the person or persons so identified and advise said individuals to
clean up the objects of solid waste by taking them to an approved disposal site
in the county, with such individual or individuals being advised to return to
the citing officer within ten days with a receipt from such approved disposal
site indicating the deposit of said objects in same, then upon failure of any
such person to comply with the specific directions of the officer, such failure
to comply shall constitute a violation of this division (C). A person violating
this section shall be guilty of a class 3 misdemeanor and, in addition to the
punishment provisions of G.S. Chapter 15A, Article 81B, Part 3, shall pay a
fine as outlined in division (B) above of this section.
   (D)   The county may exercise any of the following remedies as authorized by
North Carolina General Statutes, including but not limited to seeking
restitution for damages incurred by cost of clean up resulting from violations
of this chapter, with the minimum charge being $25.00. The minimum civil
penalties for violations of this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Scavenging or the unauthorized sal- vaging of discarded items:
 
         (a)   First of$ 25e
         (b)   Second o$ 50se
         (c)   Subseque$100ffenses
 
      (2)   Illegal dumping including dumping prohibited materials or
quantities of materials at County Solid Waste Facilities, or in unapproved
areas:
 
         (a)   First of$200e
         (b)   Second o$300se
         (c)   Subseque$500ffenses
 
      (3)   Dumping in waterways including streams, creeks, rivers, lakes or
ponds:
 
         (a)   First of$200e
         (b)   Second o$300se
         (c)   Subseque$500ffenses
 
      (4)   Illegal burning of refuse, garbage, rubbish, tires, shingles,
asphalt, petroleum products or other materials that emit noxious fumes for the
purpose of disposal:
 
         (a)   First of$200e
         (b)   Second o$300se
         (c)   Subseque$500ffenses
 
      (5)   Improper transportation by individuals en route to disposal or
collection facilities, or use of improper vehicles or license by contract
haulers or landlords carrying solid waste:
 
         (a)   First of$100e
         (b)   Second o$200se
         (c)   Subseque$400ffenses
 
      (6)   Littering solid waste facilities including failure to place all
solid waste spilled in transferring it from the transport vehicle to the
container, or leaving solid waste at a closed facility:
 
         (a)   First of$100e
         (b)   Second o$200se
         (c)   Subseque$400ffenses
 
      (7)   Disposing of recyclable materials co-mingled with garbage with
contents that amount to 25% or more by weight or volume will be charged
according to the following schedule:
 
         (a)   First ofWritten warning
         (b)   Second oTipping fee of twice the current rate
         (c)   SubsequeThree times the current tipping fee
 
      (8)   Concealment purposefully with the intent of disposing of illegal
materials in solid waste facilities.
 
         (a)   First of$200e
         (b)   Second o$300se
         (c)   Subseque$500ffenses
 
      (9)   The County Manager or Environmental Services Director has the
authority to rescind a license and to remove any containers from within the
county.
(Ord. passed 8-7-95; Am. Ord. passed 12-20-95; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-06; Am. Ord.
passed 12-15-14)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved for future legislation]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.     ANIMALS
         
91.     PUBLIC SAFETY E911 TELEPHONE/ADDRESSING
         
92.     FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   JUNK MATERIALS, JUNKYARDS, AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
94.     PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.     RADIATION CONTROL
         
96.     ALARM SYSTEMS
         
97.     REGULATION OF NOISE
         
98.     HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES
         
99.     SOLICITATION AND BEGGING
         
100.   PUBLIC SKATE PARK FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Cruelty to animals
   
90.03   Confinement and control of vicious or dangerous domestic animals
   
90.04   Nuisance
   
90.05   Impoundment
   
90.06   Stray animals
   
90.07   Non-domestic animals
   
90.08   Humane destruction of animals
Vaccination and Privilege Tax Tag Requirements
   
90.20   Vaccination of dogs, cats and other pets
   
90.21   Vaccination tag and certificate
   
90.22   Privilege lifetime tax tag for dogs and cats
Rabies and Animal Bite Management
   
90.35   Animal bites
   
90.36   Destruction or confinement of animal exposed to a known rabid animal
   
90.37   Unlawful killing or releasing of certain animals
   
90.38   Failure to surrender animal for confinement or destruction
   
90.39   Post-mortem diagnosis
   
90.40   Area-wide emergency quarantine
Animal Shelter Operations
   
90.50   Redemption of animal by owner or keeper
   
90.51   Redemption or adoption of unvaccinated dog or cat
   
90.52   Adoption or destruction of owner-surrendered animals
   
90.53   Adoption or destruction of unredeemed animals
   
90.54   Permit requirement for resale of animals
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.65   Creation of Animal Control Department
   
90.66   Responsibilities of Animal Control Department
   
90.67   Interference with Animal Control Department
   
90.68   Violations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake, desert or give up an animal previously under the
custody or possession of a person without having secured another owner or
custodian or by failing to make reasonable arrangements for adequate care.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain the animal’s health and well being. Food shall be
provided in a suitable and sanitary container.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. The owner of non- aquatic animals, other than livestock
and other large animals which are normally pastured or otherwise live in the
open, shall at all times provide said animal with shelter adequate to
reasonably protect it from the elements. Such shelter shall, at a minimum, be
sufficient to keep the animal dry, protected from adverse weather conditions.
Said shelter shall further be kept free from accumulated waste or debris so the
animal can walk or lie down without coming into contact with such waste or
debris, and shall have a suitable method of draining so as to eliminate excess
water. The shelter is to be constructed of durable fiber, wood, plastic or
other non-metallic materials of adequate insulate value that allow an animal to
maintain its body heat. The shelter should contain sufficient space for the
animal to move around, stand or lie down, and is deemed appropriate by the
Animal Control Officer.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Constant access to a supply of water that is clean, fresh
and visibly free of debris and organic material, provided in a suitable manner
and at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DIRECTOR. Employee of the county that is responsible for the
management of the Animal Control department, including enforcement of county
and state laws pertaining to animal and rabies control. Works under the direct
supervision of the County Manager. Works with Health Director or his or her
designee.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER/CRUELTY INVESTIGATOR. Employee of the county,
empowered to enforce all county and state laws pertaining to animal and rabies
control. Works under the direct supervision of the Animal Control Director.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purposes of
impounding and caring for all animals in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   ANIMALS. All living vertebrates, domestic and non-domestic, but not
including humans.
   DANGEROUS DOGS.
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person; or
         (b)   Is determined by the person designated by the county responsible
for animal control to be potentially dangerous because the dog has engaged in
one or more of the behaviors listed in division (2) of this definition.
         (c)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the person or Board
designated by the county or municipal authority responsible for animal control
determines to have:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner's real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner's property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      (3)   OWNER. Any person or legal entity that has a possessory property
right in a dog.
      (4)   OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the
owner of the dog, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area
of a condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
      (5)   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization. The
provisions of this definition do not apply to:
         (a)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the
law enforcement officer's official duties;
         (b)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
         (c)   A dog where the injury or damage inflicted by the dog was
sustained by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog,
herding dog, or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control
of, its owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species or type of
domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog; or
         (d)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
         (e)   The County Manger shall designate a person to be responsible for
determining when a dog is a POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG and the Board of
Commissioners shall act as an appellate Board or designate a separate Board to
hear any appeals. The person making the determination that a dog is a
"potentially dangerous dog" must notify the owner in writing, giving the
reasons for the determination, before the dog may be considered potentially
dangerous under this chapter. The owner may appeal the determination by filing
written objections with the appellate Board within three days. The appellate
Board shall schedule a hearing within ten days of the filing of the objections.
Any appeal from the final decision of such appellate Board shall be taken to
the superior court by filing notice of appeal and a petition for review within
ten days of the final decision of the appellate Board. Appeals from rulings of
the appellate Board shall be heard in the superior court division. The appeal
shall be heard de novo before a superior court judge sitting in the county in
which the appellate Board whose ruling is being appealed is located.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. Health Director of the County Health Department.
   IMPOUNDMENT. Secure custody of any animal by a person or shelter duly
authorized by the county.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal, or who keeps or harbors an
animal, or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by such person.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein a person boards, lets for hire, trains for fee,
breeds, buys or sells cats or dogs. This shall not include the ownership of
dogs or cats which are part of the household or which are maintained adjoining
a private residence for hunting, tracking practice, exhibition, or the guarding
or protection of the owner’s property when no more than five dogs or cats per
year are sold by such owner.
   OWNER. A person having the right of property to an animal.
   RABIES EXPOSURE. Animal exposed by another animal suspected of or known to
have rabies.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any domesticated animal that meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Is beyond the limits of confinement or lost;
      (2)   Is not wearing any form of identification; and
      (3)   No owner known.
   TETHER. A means by which an animal is restrained or fastened so it can only
range within a set radius.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 3-3-97; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon, or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare of any animal, or to cause or procure such action.
The words “torture” and “torment” shall be held to include every act, omission
or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering, or death is caused
or permitted; but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful taking
of animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the Wildlife Resources
Commission; nor to prohibit the Department or veterinarians or duly authorized
persons from destroying dangerous, unwanted, or injured animals in a humane
manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his
animal(s) with adequate food, adequate water, and adequate shelter to keep his
animal(s) in good health and comfort, and the opportunity for vigorous daily
exercise. Veterinary care shall be provided when needed to prevent suffering.
   (C)   Any person injuring or killing a domestic animal by striking it with
an automobile or other vehicle, shall make reasonable effort to notify the
owner of the animal, and shall notify this Department of Animal Control.
   (D)   Any person being the owner or possessor, or having charge or custody
of an animal, who willfully and without justifiable excuse, abandons the animal
(s), is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided by a fine of up to $500.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to tether an animal to a stationary object for a
period of time or under conditions that an Animal Control Officer deems harmful
or potentially harmful to the animal. Tethering may only be allowed if there is
no sign of obvious neglect. Examples of improper tethering include, but not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Using a length or weight of tether that is not appropriate for the
size, weight and age of the animal. An appropriate restraint must be a minimum
of ten feet in length.
      (2)   Using tether that does not have swivels on both ends. All tethers
must be attached to the animal by means of a properly fitting harness or collar
of not less than one inch wide made of nylon or leather.
      (3)   Tethering an animal allowing said animal to leave the owner’s real
property or such that the tether can become entangled and prevent the animal
from moving about freely, lying down, or having access to adequate food,
adequate water, or adequate shelter.
   (F)   All investigations and related procedures of cruelty charges, will be
at the discretion of the County Animal Control Officer/Cruelty Investigator.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 CONFINEMENT AND CONTROL OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any vicious, fierce, or
dangerous domestic animal within the county unless deemed in compliance with
this section. After receiving a written and detailed complaint regarding an
incident or complaint of a DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL the Animal
Control Department shall investigate. Special preventative measures shall be
taken by the Animal Control Officers for the confinement and control of
dangerous/potentially dangerous animals upon consideration of the following
factors:
      (1)   The presence of a victim or potential victim that in the opinion of
the department is unable to defend themselves, such as children, elderly, or
handicapped.
      (2)   Prior documented complaints regarding human attacks/bites, or
attacks on other animals when not on owners real property.
      (3)   Prior attack-dog training or aggression training.
      (4)   Threat or open display of attack by an animal.
   (B)   The Animal Control department shall have the authority as promulgated
under (G.S. §§ 67-4.5 and 130A-200) to require appropriate and specific
preventative measures, including impoundment, to ensure public safety. Such
preventive measures may be required at the discretion of the Animal Control
Officer during the investigation of a dangerous animal complaint or subsequent
display of dangerous animal behavior by the animal within the jurisdiction of
Ashe County.
   (C)   The Animal Control Officer or his/her designee shall determine if an
animal is "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous." The person making the
determination will notify the owner or keeper in writing and cite the reason
for the determination.
      (1)   Dangerous dog.
         (a)   A dangerous dog is an animal that:
            1.   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person.
            2.   Is determined, by the person or designated by the County
Manager to be responsible for the Animal Control, to be potentially dangerous
because the dog has engaged in behaviors listed in division (C)(1)(b).
            3.   Is determined to be a dog owned or harbored primarily or in
part for the purpose of dog fighting or a dog trained for dog fighting.
         (b)   Potentially dangerous dog means a dog that the person designated
by the County Manager to have authority responsible for the Animal Control
determines to have:
            1.   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones,
disfiguring lacerations, cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
            2.   Killed or inflicted severe injury on a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property.
            3.   Approached a person, when not on the owner’s property, in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
         (c)   Special preventative measures shall be taken by the Animal
Control Officer for any dog deemed dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (D)   (1)   Any dog determined to be potentially dangerous shall be
delivered within 24 hours to the Ashe County Animal Shelter and there it shall
be held until a secure fenced area a minimum of six feet high, ten feet long
and ten feet wide, with the fencing set in the ground in such a way that the
dog cannot dig out, is erected. The enclosure will be inspected by the Animal
Control Department before the dog is released. The owner will pay all boarding
fees and fines applicable. This enclosure shall be completed and the dog
claimed within 14 days or the dog may be destroyed.
      (2)   The owner will post the entrance of the property where the
potentially dangerous dog is kept with a sign that is legible from the road or
sidewalk with notification that a potentially dangerous dog is kept on the
property.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to:
         (a)   Leave a potentially dangerous dog unaccompanied on the owner's
real property unless the dog is confined indoors or inside a secure enclosure.
         (b)   Permit a potentially dangerous dog to go outside the secure
enclosure unless the dog is leashed and muzzled or is otherwise securely
restrained under the control of a responsible adult.
         (c)   Transfer ownership of a potentially dangerous dog without having
notified the Animal Control Department in writing ten days prior to the
transfer of ownership. The person receiving ownership of the dog shall have a
secure enclosure prior to taking possession of the dog.
         (d)   Transfer ownership of a potentially dangerous dog without having
notified in writing the person taking ownership of the dog regarding the dog's
dangerous behavior and the determination of the dog as potentially dangerous.
      (4)   (a)   The Board of County Commissioners shall act as or appoint an
appeals board to review "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous" designations
upon request of the owner or keeper. The Board of County Commissioners shall
specify the number, qualifications, length of term, and compensation, if any,
for the Appeals Board.
         (b)   Owners shall have three business days from the time of
notification that the dog has been deemed dangerous to file an appeal in
writing to the County Manager stating the reasons why such a designation is
unwarranted. The County Manager will forward the appeals request to the Appeals
Board, and a hearing will be scheduled within ten days of the filing. The
designation of an animal as "dangerous" shall be upheld unless overturned by
the Appeals Board. Any appeal of the Appeals Board's final decision will be
filed with the Superior Court, pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1(c).
      (5)   Animals deemed "dangerous" or "potentially dangerous" that are
found to be in violation of prescribed confinement shall be subject to
apprehension or seizure and impoundment at the Animal Control facility at the
owner's expense until released by a court of competent jurisdiction or may be
humanely destroyed in accordance with § 90.08. In addition, the owner of the
animal will be subject to a civil penalty of $100.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCE.
   All nuisance complaints are required to be filed in person by the
complainant and complainant must be willing to go to court if criminal charges
are filed. Complaints regarding the nature of aggressive animals running at
large off the owner’s or keeper’s property may be received by phone or by email
and can be investigated in effort to protect the public.
   (A)   An animal or group of animals shall be considered a nuisance if:
      (1)   Private or public property is damaged.
      (2)   Animal(s) interfere with, or attack person(s) or other animals.
      (3)   Animal(s) that habitually or repeatedly make noises or other sounds
that tend to annoy, disturb, or frighten citizens. (Repealed 11/3/03)
      (4)   Animal(s) chase, or harass pedestrians, bicyclists, or vehicles.
      (5)   By virtue of number is offensive or dangerous to public health,
safety, and welfare.
      (6)   Animal(s) are diseased or dangerous to public health.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit an animal or
animals to create a nuisance, or to maintain a nuisance created by any animal
or animals, as defined in division (A)(1) through (6) above of this section.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95) Penalty, see §
90.99
   (C)   Upon receipt of a written, detailed, and signed complaint to the
county by any resident(s) that any person is maintaining a public nuisance as
defined in this chapter, the county shall notify the owner or keeper of the
offending animals that a complaint has been received and that an investigation
has been initiated. A report of the findings of the investigation to be reduced
to writing by the investigating animal control officer.
   (D)   If the written findings indicate a violation, the Animal Control
Officer shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to
be so notified in writing, and ordered to abate such nuisance within 48 hours
by whatever means necessary.
   (E)   If any person receiving notice in the manner hereinabove described
shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance upon the issuance of such order
within the specified time, the department supervisor may cause the animal or
animals in question to be apprehended and impounded in accordance with the
provisions of §
90.05.
   (F)   Within three business days the owner of the nuisance animal may appeal
the findings of the department supervisor or to the County Manager by giving
written notice of appeal to stay the abatement of the nuisance until a final
determination by the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   If the owners shall so request, the animal or animals may be redeemed
pursuant to the provisions of §
90.50. If no redemption is made by the owner within the time specified, then
the animal shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of §
90.08 hereunder.
(Amend. Ord. passed 6-15-98; Amend. Ord. passed 11-3-03; Amend. Ord. passed 10-
17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be: lost, stray or unwanted, or not
wearing a valid tax tag (dog) and vaccination tag where required, or any other
violation of this chapter, may be seized, impounded, and confined in a humane
manner at an animal shelter.
   (B)   Reasonable effort shall be made to identify the owner or keeper of the
animal, and to inform such owner or keeper of the conditions whereby the animal
may be redeemed.
   (C)   Impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner or keeper
thereof from any penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95) Penalty, see §
90.99
   (D)   Domesticated animals with or without tags shall be impounded for no
less than three weekdays.
(Amend. Ord. passed 6-15-98; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 STRAY ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to knowingly and
intentionally harbor, keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise allow an
animal or animals to remain on his property, unless the person has, within 72
hours from the time such animal came into his possession, notified the Animal
Control Department. Upon receiving such notice, the Animal Control Department
shall take such animal and place it in an animal shelter and deal with it as
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to refuse to surrender any such stray to the
Animal Control Department on demand.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal(s) which are
dangerous to persons or property or which have the potential of being dangerous
to persons or property. This section shall not apply to bona fide circuses,
petting zoos, and other traveling commercial animal exhibitions of limited
duration.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 HUMANE DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal which
cannot be seized by reasonable means and has been deemed vicious, stray, or a
public nuisance, may be humanely destroyed at the discretion of the Animal
Control Department.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal seized
or impounded which is badly wounded, diseased (not a rabies suspect), or
unweaned, and is not displaying any identification, and cannot be identified
after reasonable inquiry, shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If
the animal has identification, the Department shall attempt to notify the owner
or keeper of the situation. If the owner cannot be readily reached, the
department, in consultation with the veterinarian will use its discretion
whether or not the suffering animal should be destroyed in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95) Penalty, see §
90.99
   (C)   At the end of the minimum time period indicated herein, unclaimed
animals shall be deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of in a humane manner.
(Amend. Ord. passed 6-15-98; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
VACCINATION AND PRIVILEGE TAX TAG REQUIREMENTS
§ 90.20 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND OTHER PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide a
current vaccination against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months
of age or older. Any dog or cat adopted or redeemed from the Ashe County Animal
Shelter that does not have proof of a current rabies vaccination shall be
vaccinated by Ashe County Animal Control’s Certified Rabies Vaccinators or a
rabies voucher must be purchased by the adopter or owner, and said animal
should be vaccinated within a 72 hour period. Should it be deemed necessary by
the District Health Director or the Board of County Commissioners that other
pets be vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an
existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to
provide current vaccination against rabies for that pet.
   (B)   A rabies vaccination shall be deemed current for a dog or cat if the
first two doses of vaccine are administered 12 months apart and each subsequent
booster dose of vaccine is administered according to the North Carolina State
Law.
   (C)   All rabies vaccines shall be administered by a licensed veterinarian
or a certified rabies vaccinator.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 3-3-97; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 VACCINATION TAG AND CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provisions of §
90.20 of this chapter, there shall be issued to the owner or keeper of the dog
or cat vaccinated, a rabies tag stamped with a number and the year of issue and
a rabies vaccination certificate.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to fail to provide dogs
with a collar or harness to which a current rabies tag will be attached. Collar
or harness with attached tag must be worn at all times with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   Confinement in an enclosure on owner’s premises.
      (2)   Animal shows.
      (3)   Obedience trials.
      (4)   Tracking tests.
      (5)   Field trials
      (6)   Training schools or events sanctioned by a recognized organization.
      (7)   Supervised hunting
   NOTE: Cats are not required to display tags, as long as written evidence of
tax and inoculation can be furnished to the Animal Control Officer immediately
upon request. A lifetime privilege tax tag is also available, and remains
effective for the lifetime of the animal. Lifetime tags are nontransferable
between owners or animals.
   (C)   All dogs or cats shipped or otherwise brought into this county, except
for exhibition purposes where dogs or cats are confined and not permitted to
run at-large, shall be securely confined and vaccinated within one week after
entry, and shall remain confined for two additional weeks after vaccination
unless accompanied by a certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian showing
that the dog or catis apparently free from rabies and has not been exposed to
same and that the animal has received a proper dose of rabies vaccine not more
than six months prior to the date of issuing the certificate.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any other animal a
rabies vaccination tag not intended for that animal.
   (E)   In addition to all other penalties as prescribed by law, a dog or cat
is subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if
the dog or cat is found without a current rabies tag, or proof of vaccination.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 PRIVILEGE LIFETIME TAX TAG FOR DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to supplement state law by providing
a procedure for the enforcement of laws requiring dogs to wear a privilege tax
tag.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat owner or keeper to fail to
provide his dog or cat with a privilege tax tag to be issued by the county, and
to take such action as necessary to insure that the privilege tax tag is worn
by the dog or cat at all times except for the exceptions cited in §
90.21 (B)(1) through (6). (See NOTE in §
90.21). A lifetime privilege tax tag remains effective for the lifetime of the
animal. Lifetime tags are non-transferrable between owners or animals.
   (C)   Tax tags can be obtained from the County Tax Department and the County
Animal Shelter. The tag will be of such color, shape, or texture to insure easy
identification of the year of issue. The tag will contain a number or other
designation, and a record will be kept of the person to whom the tag has been
issued.
   (D)   In addition to all other penalties prescribed by law, a dog or cat is
subject to impoundment in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if
the dog or cat is found not wearing a current tag.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any individual moving into the county who
owns or keeps dogs or cats to fail to obtain a valid rabies tag and privilege
tax tag within ten days of moving into the county.
   (F)   This provision shall not apply to bona fide licensed and certified
kennels until such time as the animals located therein reach the age of four
months.
   (G)   Lifetime privilege tax tags are at a cost of $10 per tag for both dogs
and cats.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 5-6-02; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
Penalty, see §
90.99 
RABIES AND ANIMAL BITE MANAGEMENT
§ 90.35 ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   When a person has been bitten by an animal suspected of or having
rabies, it shall be the duty of such person, or his legal parent or guardian
(if such person is a minor), and the owner or keeper, to notify the Department
of Animal Control immediately and give their name and address; and the owner or
keeper having such animal in his possession or under his control shall
immediately secure and confine the animal for ten days at the expense of the
owner in such a place as designated by the Department. It shall be the duty of
every physician, after his first professional attendance upon a person bitten
by any animal suspected of or having rabies, to report the incident to the
Department of Animal Control, and shall include in the report the name, age,
sex of victim, and precise location of bite wound. Report shall be conveyed not
later than 24 hours from time of the incident.
   (B)   If the owner of, or a person who has in his possession or under his
control, an animal suspected of or having rabies refuses to confine the animal
as required by this chapter or G.S. § 130A-196, the Animal Control Department
may order the seizure of the animal and its confinement for not less than ten
days in such a place as the Department of Animal Control designates.
   (C)   Law enforcement agencies investigating animal bites shall report such
bites immediately to the Department of Animal Control and give the names and
addresses of person(s) bitten and owner of animal.
   (D)   In a case where the animal’s keeper or owner is not known, the
suspected animal shall be kept for the supervised confinement period at the
Ashe County Animal Shelter.
   (E)   Badly wounded, diseased, or suffering animals, which are suspected of
having rabies, may be humanely destroyed and the head forwarded for
examination, at the discretion of the Health Director or his or her designee.
   (F)   Wildlife bites.
      (1)   Any person bitten by a wild animal suspected of rabies shall report
all information as required in §
90.35(A). The wild animal, if obtained, shall be released to the Animal Control
Department for shipment to the North Carolina Division of Health Services for
diagnosis.
      (2)   Any animal without a valid rabies vaccination bitten by a wild
animal shall be treated as stated in §
90.36(B) in the event the wild animal cannot be contained or captured for
rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36 DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL EXPOSED TO A KNOWN RABID ANIMAL.
   Animals not vaccinated against rabies which are exposed by a known rabid
animal shall be immediately destroyed unless the owner or keeper agrees to
strict isolation of the animal at a veterinary hospital for a period of four
months at the owner’s expense. If the animal has a current rabies vaccination,
the animal shall receive immediate veterinary care and receive a booster rabies
vaccination within 96 hours of exposure and then can be allowed to return to
the owner’s control and observed for 45 days. If the animal has been vaccinated
but expired with appropriate documentation the animal shall receive immediate
veterinary care and receive a booster rabies vaccination within 96 hours of
exposure and then can be allowed to return to the owner’s control and observed
for 45 days.
   (A)   Appropriate documentation. A rabies certificate or official veterinary
record validating that the animal has received a USDA-licensed rabies vaccine
at least once previously, and if a single vaccination, the animal was
vaccinated at least 28 days prior to the exposure date. (G.S. § 130A-185 and §
130A-197)
   (B)   If rabies booster or vaccination is delayed, Local Health Director may
consider increasing observation period (case by case) or quarantine period
(from four to six months), considering severity of exposure, length of delay in
vaccination, current health status, and number of prior rabies vaccines and
lapses.
   (C)   Owner observation. Under the owner’s strict supervision and control
(leash walk, fenced yard, no travel or boarding unless approved by the Local
Health Director, no outings at dog parks or other parks, etc.) there should be
no contact with animals or people other than the owner (caretaker) until the
Local Health Director has released the animal from the 45 day observation
period. Per 2016 NASPHV Rabies Compendium Post Exposure Management Control
Measures for Dogs and Cats by rabies status category.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 3-3-97; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.37 UNLAWFUL KILLING OR RELEASING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, or any animal under observation where a human has been
bitten. The animal may not be removed from the county without written
permission from the District Health Director, or the Department of Animal
Control.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for confinement or destruction as required in this chapter when demand
is made therefor by the Department of Animal Control. The District Health
Director or the Department of Animal Control may authorize any suspected rabid
animal to be destroyed for rabies diagnosis, at the discretion of the Health
Director or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed - -87; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 POST-MORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of such
animal shall be submitted to the department for shipment to the laboratory
section of the North Carolina Division of Health Services for rabies diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any animal suspected or dying of rabies shall be
surrendered to the Department of Animal Control for shipment to the laboratory
section of the North Carolina Division of Health Services.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.40 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies where human lives
may be endangered, the District Health Director may declare an area-wide
quarantine for a period he/she deems necessary. Under emergency quarantine, no
dog or cat may be taken or shipped from the county without written permission
of the District Health Director. During such quarantine the Health Director,
law enforcement officers, and Animal Control Officers may seize any dog or cat
found running at-large in the county until the quarantine is lifted. During the
quarantine period, the Health Director shall be empowered to provide for a
program of mass immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency rabies
vaccination facilities in the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the District Health Director.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
ANIMAL SHELTER OPERATIONS
§ 90.50 REDEMPTION OF ANIMAL BY OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of an animal impounded under this chapter may
redeem the animal and regain possession thereof within 72 hours after notice of
impoundment is posted as required by this chapter, and by complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and paying all applicable fees or fines
as set by shelter policy and the Animal Control Department.
   (B)   No animal owner or keeper may be permitted to adopt his own animal
under the provisions of this chapter, but he must comply with the provisions of
this chapter in order to reclaim an animal that has been impounded pursuant to
state law or this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.51 REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOG OR CAT.
   (A)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished, any dog
or cat adopted or redeemed from the Ashe County Animal Shelter that does not
have proof of a current rabies vaccination shall be vaccinated by Ashe County
Animal Control’s Certified Rabies Vaccinators or a rabies voucher must be
purchased by the adopter or owner, and said animal should be vaccinated within
a 72 hour period.
   (B)   The “rabies voucher” if issued will be completed by the veterinarian
and returned to the Animal Control Office by the animal owner or keeper.
   (C)   Person(s) adopting a dog or cat will be required to purchase a
privilege tax tag.
   (D)   Payment for all veterinary services will be the responsibility of the
owner or keeper.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95)
   (E)   It is required each animal be spayed or neutered, at owner’s expense,
to aid in the stray animal population.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 6-15-98; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.52 ADOPTION OR DESTRUCTION OF OWNER-SURRENDERED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Control Department
may be immediately placed for adoption, or humanely destroyed when:
      (1)   The owner directs, in writing, that the animal be placed for
adoption or humanely destroyed; and
      (2)   The owner affirmatively represents in writing that he or she is in
fact the legal owner of said animal; and
      (3)   The owner agrees that he or she will indemnify and hold the Animal
Control Department or county harmless for fees, by reason of the destruction
of, or placement for adoption of, said animal; and
      (4)   The owner transfers ownership of said animal to the Animal Control
Department and releases the department from any and all future claims with
respect to said animal.
   (B)   Upon receiving aforementioned assurances, the Animal Control
Department may rely on the same and place said animal for adoption, or destroy
said animal, as it sees fit.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.53 ADOPTION OR DESTRUCTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner or keeper within
the period specified in §
90.50(A), it may be destroyed in a humane manner, or shall become the property
of the animal shelter and offered to a responsible citizen willing to comply
with prescribed adoption procedures.
   (B)   During periods of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to this
chapter, no animal shall be adopted if it is a stray unclaimed by its owner or
keeper, except by special authorization from the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.54 PERMIT REQUIREMENT FOR RESALE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect any dog or cat for the
purpose of resale on a regular basis unless a permit for the same has been
obtained from the Animal Control Department in accordance with the provisions
of this section and unless such permit shall remain unsuspended and unrevoked.
   (B)   The Animal Control Department may revoke any permit if the person(s)
holding the permit refuses or fails to comply with this chapter, the
regulations promulgated by the Animal Control Department, or any law governing
the protection and keeping of animals.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.65 CREATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created an Animal Control Department, hereinafter
“Department”, for the county, which shall be composed of such employees as
shall be determined in the manner authorized by the Board of County
Commissioners. The employees shall be employed and compensated as prescribed in
the County Employee Handbook.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.66 RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Department will be comprised of elements of the existing agencies
of the District Health Department, and the Sheriff’s Department, along with
other law enforcement agencies, it shall be their duty in local cooperation, to
collaboratively enforce all laws of North Carolina and all ordinances of the
county pertaining to disease prevention.
   (B)   The Department is responsible for the investigation of all reported
animal bites, for the quarantine of any dog or cat involved in or suspected of
having rabies, and for reporting investigation results to the District Health
Director as soon as practicable.
   (C)   The Department shall have the responsibility for investigating cruelty
or abuse cases involving animals.
   (D)   The Department will be responsible for the seizure and impoundment
where deemed necessary, of any dog or other animal in the county involved in a
violation of this chapter or state laws.
   (E)   The Department will patrol the county as necessary to monitor
compliance with this chapter or state laws.
   (F)   The Department may be responsible for the operation of a county
operated animal shelter.
   (G)   The Department is empowered to issue notices of violation of this
chapter the Board of Commissioners may prescribe.
   (H)   The Animal Control Officers shall keep, or cause to be kept, accurate
and detailed records of:
      (1)   Seizure, impoundment, and disposition of all animals coming into
the custody of the Department.
      (2)   Bite cases, violations, complaints, and all investigations of the
aforementioned.
      (3)   All fees belonging to the county which were collected for
redemptions, tags, sales, violations, and other.
      (4)   Any other matters deemed necessary by the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.67 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or molest the
employees of the Animal Control Department and its officers, or to seek to
release any animal in the custody of such persons, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.68 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate equitable remedy,
injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e).
   (B)   In addition to, and not in lieu of the criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided by this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth.
      (1)   Such civil penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of debt or may be collected in such other amounts as
prescribed herein within the prescribed time following the issuance of notice
for such violation.
      (2)   Such notice shall include:
         (a)   State upon its face the amount of the penalty if such penalty be
paid within 72 hours from and after the issuance of the notice and the late fee
($1 per day) if paid more than 72 hours after its issuance.
         (b)   Notify such offender that a failure to pay the penalties within
the prescribed time shall subject such offender to a civil action in the nature
of debt for the stated penalty plus an additional penalty in the amount of $25,
together with the cost of the action to be taxed by the court.
         (c)   Further provide that such offender may answer the notice by
mailing the notice, and stated penalty to the Animal Control Department at its
mailing address, or by making payment to the Animal Control Department at the
appropriate address, and that upon payment, such case or claim and right of
action by the county will be deemed compromised and settled.
         (d)   State that such penalties must be paid within 72 hours from
issuance of such notice. Such notice shall further state that if such notice of
violation is not paid within 72 hours, court action by filing a civil complaint
for collection of such a penalty may be taken.
   (C)   The Animal Control Department is authorized to accept such payments in
full and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or rights of action
which the county may have to enforce such penalty by civil action in the nature
of debt. Acceptance of such penalty shall be deemed a full and final release of
any and all such claims, or rights of action arising out of such contended
violation or violations.
   (D)   The notice of violation referred to herein may be delivered to the
person violating the provisions of this chapter in person, or may be mailed by
certified mail to the person at his last known address.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor,
and any person convicted of such violation shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Each day’s violation of this chapter is a separate offense. Payment of
a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this section does not
relieve a person of his liability for taxes or fees imposed under this chapter.
   (C)   The civil penalties for violation of this chapter are as follows:
Offense Section 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Offense Section                                      1st     2nd     3rd
                                                     Offense Offense Offense
Cruelty to animals                                   $100    $250    $500
Allowing dangerous dog to run at large off owner’s $100    $250    $500
property
Harboring non-domestic animal                        $100    $250    $500
Interfering with Animal Control Officer              $100    $250    $500
Failure to surrender                                 $100    $250    $500
Nuisance                                             $100    $250    $500
Rabies violation                                     $50     $100    $250
Failure to vaccinate
County tax tag violation                             $50     $100    $250
 
   The penalty shall be paid within 72 hours from and after issuance of the
notice by the prescribed manner.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty prescribed in division (C) above, a $1 per
day penalty shall be imposed in all those cases in which the above penalty has
not been paid within the authorized 72-hour period.
   (E)   Should it become necessary to institute a civil action to collect any
penalty hereunder, then the violation shall also be subject to an additional
penalty of $25.
   (F)   All penalties paid to the Animal Control Department or as may be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be
paid into the General Fund of Ashe County to the Finance Officer.
(Ord. passed 9-20-95; Amend. Ord. passed 11-1-99; Amend. Ord. passed 10-17-22)
CHAPTER 91: PUBLIC SAFETY E911 TELEPHONE/ADDRESSING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Title
   
91.002   Legislative purposes and authorities
   
91.003   Definitions
Telephone
   
91.015   E911 charges
   
91.016   Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
91.017   Telephone records
   
91.018   Limitation of liability
   
91.019   Persons outside county
Addressing
   
91.030   Territorial jurisdiction
   
91.031   Incorporated areas
Numbering System
   
91.040   Uniformity of the system
   
91.041   Origin point
   
91.042   North-south and east-west axes
   
91.043   Road naming and numbering criteria
   
91.044   Numbering method
   
91.045   Dead end roads
   
91.046   Roads connecting to both axes
   
91.047   Numbers begin with 101 for structures
Addressing System
   
91.055   Method of assigning a number
   
91.056   Corner lots
   
91.057   Road name of address
   
91.058   Requirements for road naming and numbering
   
91.059   Structures sharing a common roof
   
91.060   Assigning of unit designators
   
91.061   Mobile homes
Posting Requirements for Structures
   
91.070   Time constraints
   
91.071   Number specifications
   
91.072   Posting locations
   
91.073   Maintenance of structure numbers
Road Naming
   
91.085   Approval of names
   
91.086   Deceptively similar names
   
91.087   Road names
   
91.088   Undesirable names
   
91.089   Road segments
   
91.090   Impasses
   
91.091   Existing road names
Road Name Signs and Standards
   
91.100   Installation and maintenance
   
91.101   Sign standards
   
91.102   Existing road signs
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.110   Administrator and responsibilities
   
91.111   Applications and petitions
   
91.112   Petitioning for a road name
   
91.113   Certificate of occupancy
   
91.114   Procedure upon denial
   
91.115   Letter of notification: changes to addresses
   
91.116   Public hearing required for amendments
   
91.117   Legal status provisions
   
91.118   Notification of violation
   
91.119   Legal prosecution
   
91.120   Appeals and requests for variance
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Ashe County Public Safety E-911
Telephone/Addressing Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.002 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSES AND AUTHORITIES.
   The Board of Commissioners declares it to be in the public interest to
provide a toll free telephone number and establish a detailed, permanent,
uniform, addressing system through which an individual in this county can gain
rapid, direct access to public safety aid. The telephone number and addressing
system shall be provided with the objective of reducing response time to
situations requiring law enforcement, fire, medical, rescue, or other public
safety service. This chapter is established pursuant to G.S. Chapter 62A and
G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 12.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESSABLE STRUCTURES. Includes residential, mobile and manufactured homes,
business, private meeting and industrial structures. Agricultural structures
and recreational vehicles may also be addressable structures upon request.
   ADDRESSING. The assigning of names to all unnamed state maintained roads
within the boundaries of the county and the approval process for naming private
roads.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure that is used exclusively for
agricultural purposes.
   AVENUE. A major road that runs generally in an east/west direction.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The County Board of Commissioners.
   BOULEVARD. An unusually wide street typically in residential areas; often
with central, dividing median.
   CHAPTER ADMINISTRATOR. The County E911 Address Coordinator.
   CIRCLE. A short road that returns to itself.
   COUNTY. The County of Ashe, North Carolina.
   COURT. A dead end right-of-way often ending as a cul-de-sac.
   DRIVE. A curving secondary road.
   E911 or ENHANCED 911 SERVICE. An emergency telephone system that provides
the user of the public telephone system with 911 service and, in addition,
provides the capability for automatic number identification and automatic
location identification features.
   GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS). A computerized mapping system that
depicts a variety of information, to include public and private roads and
addressed structures.
   HIGHWAY. A designated state or federal highway.
   INTERSTATE. A thoroughfare of the highest order and federally designated as
an interstate.
   LANE. A short private road that branches off of another road and ends or
connects to another secondary road.
   LOOP. A short road that starts and ends on the same street or road.
   NEXT GENERATION 911 (NG911). An internet protocol (IP)-based system for
routing digital information (e.g. text messages, photos) to the appropriate 911
call center, or Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP).
   PARKWAY. A special scenic route or park drive.
   PLACE. A cul-de-sac or permanent dead end road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a governmental entity or
agency through the use of public funds. Road name suffixes for private roads
include “trail,” “lane,” and “way.”
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of public funds.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. An agency that provides fire-fighting, law
enforcement, medical, suicide prevention, civil defense, poison control, or
other emergency services.
   RADIO/COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Includes any radio communications,
transmissions, dispatching or future Enhanced 911 communications that may
involve police, emergency, fire, or rescue operations, but are not limited to
these aforesaid operations.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is designed to be self-propelled or
permanently towable by a light duty truck; and is designed primarily not for
use as a permanent dwelling, but as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel or seasonal use.
   ROAD. A well-traveled secondary road often connecting with a U.S. or state
primary highway.
   STREET. A major road that runs generally in a north/south direction.
   STREET ADDRESS. An unique identifier for each addressable structure within
the county. The minimum adequate STREET ADDRESS shall be defined as the
assigned structure number and the officially adopted road name. Where required
by this chapter, the STREET ADDRESS shall also include the assigned unit
designator.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional in nature and use.
   STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address, as assigned
by the chapter administrator or his or her designee, in accordance with the
Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map of the County.
   THOROUGHFARE. A general, all-inclusive term for: roads, public or private;
street; drive;
cartway; easement; right-of-way; or any other word or words that mean a way of
access.
   TRAIL. A local, private road that serves as a connector for larger roads.
    UNIT DESIGNATORS. The portion of the street address used to distinguish
individual units within the same structure. Apartments and suites hereby shall
be referred to as units.
   WAY. A minor private road that begins and ends on the same road.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
TELEPHONE
§ 91.015 E911 CHARGES.
   Under G.S. Chapter 62A, the state imposes and collects a monthly E911 charge
upon each exchange access facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose
exchange access lines are in the area served or which would be served by the
E911 service.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.016 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   The state E911 Board makes available to each county funds received through
the E911 charge into an Emergency Telephone System Fund. These funds are used
to provide a toll free telephone number through which an individual can gain
rapid access to public safety aid.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.017 TELEPHONE RECORDS.
   (A)   Each telephone service supplier shall provide subscriber telephone
numbers, names and service addresses to E911 systems when required by the
county. Although customer numbers, names and service addresses shall be
available to E911 systems, such information shall remain the property of the
disclosing service supplier. This information shall be used only in providing
emergency response services to E911 calls. The county may not release a
telephone number required to be provided under this section to any person for
any purposes other than including the number in the emergency telephone system
database or providing the number to permit a response to police, fire, medical,
or other emergency situation.
   (B)   To the extent necessary to provide E911 service, private listing
customers of a service supplier in an E911 service area waive the privacy
afforded by non-listed and non-published numbers when E911 service is
established.
   (C)   No service supplier, or agents or employees of a service supplier,
shall be liable to any person provided E911 service established under this
chapter for release for emergency telephone purposes of information specified
in this section that is not already part of the public record, including non-
listed or non-published numbers.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.018 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   A service supplier, including any telephone company and its employees,
directors, officers and agents, is not liable for any damages in a civil action
for injuries, death, or loss to persons or property incurred by any person as a
result of any act or omission of a service supplier or of any of its employees,
directors, officers, or agents, except for willful or wanton misconduct, in
connection with developing, adopting, implementing, maintaining, or operating
an E911 system.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.019 PERSONS OUTSIDE COUNTY.
   When an individual physically resides in an adjacent county, but receives
local exchange telephone service from a central office in the county, it shall
be the responsibility of the county to notify the appropriate public agency of
a request for public safety service from such individual.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
ADDRESSING
§ 91.030 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable to all of the unincorporated areas of the county and all areas of
the county that are being provided radio/communications services by the County
Communications/E-9-1-1 Center. This section specifically applies to other
governments being served by the E-9-1-1 Center, which may or may not have a
contractual agreement for these services.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.031 INCORPORATED AREAS.
   Any incorporated area within the county that is being provided radio/
communications services by the County Communications/E-9-1-1 Center, shall bear
the responsibility, of adhering to the road naming and addressing policies set
forth in this chapter and/or adopt a compatible chapter by their governing
board.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 91.040 UNIFORMITY OF THE SYSTEM.
   All roads that are officially designated on the addressing map whether
public or private, shall be numbered uniformly and consecutively along the
roadway centerline. Numbers shall be assigned along the entirety of all named
thoroughfares.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.041 ORIGIN POINT.
   The origin point, or vertex, of the numbering system shall be located at the
intersection of Academy Street and E. Main Street (in front of the 1904
courthouse) in Jefferson.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.042 NORTH-SOUTH AND EAST-WEST AXES.
   The county shall be divided by two axes. The north-south axis shall be US
221. The east-west axis shall be NC 88 and E. Main Street.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.043 ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING CRITERIA.
   All roads, both public and private, shall be named, numbered, and have road
name signs installed if two or more addressable structures are located on and
accessed by them. This does not include driveways where all structures are
located within 50 feet of the primary road.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.044 NUMBERING METHOD.
   A pair of numbers, each being either a three-, four-, or five-digit natural
number, called a structure number, shall be assigned at intervals of two and
one-half feet along a roadway centerline. Odd natural numbers shall be assigned
to the left side of the road by ascending numbers moving away from the axes or
origin point. Even natural numbers shall be assigned to the right side of the
road in a like manner.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.045 DEAD END ROADS.
   All dead end roads and cul-de-sacs shall begin with ascending numbers at the
open end, that being the end connecting to another road.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.046 ROADS CONNECTING TO BOTH AXES.
   Roads which connect to both axes shall begin ascending numbers on the end
stemming from the north-south axis.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.047 NUMBERS BEGIN WITH 101 FOR STRUCTURES.
   Each given road starts out with number 100 which is the intersection. The
first potentially assignable structure number on a given road shall be the
number 101.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
ADDRESSING SYSTEM
§ 91.055 METHOD OF ASSIGNING A NUMBER.
   Each residential, business, private meeting structure, and industrial
structure shall be assigned a structure number based on the number of the
appropriate segment of roadway centerline. Agricultural structures and
recreational vehicles for which the owners desire telephone service may be
assigned a number upon request. No other structures shall have numbers
assigned. The structure number shall be determined by the line perpendicular to
the road centerline, which intersects the centerline of the house or driveway
leading to the structure. In cases where a structure has a loop driveway or
more than one driveway, the structure number shall be assigned to the driveway
that best services the main access to the structure. The number of the
centerline segment at the point of perpendicular intersection shall be the
number of the structure. Numbers shall not be assigned to structures requiring
permits until footings have met building code regulations as determined by the
Building Inspections Office.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.056 CORNER LOTS.
   Structures on corner lots shall be assigned a structure number either from
the road which intersects the addressable driveway to that structure, or from
the road in which the main access or entrance to the structure is oriented. The
number will be assigned using the method in §
91.055 above and will be assigned in the manner as determined by the chapter
administrator or his or her designee.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-2021)
§ 91.057 ROAD NAME OF ADDRESS.
   The road name for an address shall be the name of the road from which the
structure is numbered.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.058 REQUIREMENTS FOR ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING.
   If development on a private road exceeds the minimum structure regulation (§
91.043), the road shall be named and numbered and structures readdressed
according to the requirements herein.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.059 STRUCTURES SHARING A COMMON ROOF.
   For structures sharing a common roof, addresses and/or unit designators will
be assigned based on whether structures share a common entrance or have
individual entrances. For structures sharing a common roof that use a common
entrance, structures contained within will be assigned a single 911 address but
given unit designators. Structures sharing a common roof with individual
entrances will be assigned individual 911 addresses.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.060 ASSIGNING OF UNIT DESIGNATORS.
   Residential and commercial unit designators shall be assigned a unit number
with unit designators starting at 1. For example, an apartment building with
three units that is located at 119 Pine St. (regardless of floor) would have
the following addresses: 119 Pine St. Unit 1, 119 Pine St. Unit 2 and 119 Pine
St. Unit 3. Unit designators will be assigned using the same numbering method
in §
91.044.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.061 MOBILE HOMES.
   Manufactured housing or mobile homes located on individual lots within
mobile home developments or mobile home parks shall be assigned individual
street addresses according to the requirements herein. The homes shall display
the address on the front of the structure.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURES
§ 91.070 TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   Within 90 days after written notification of the assignment of, or change
of, a structure number, or prior to a final building inspection, whichever
occurs first, the owner of the structure shall post the assigned structure
number in compliance with the requirements herein.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.071 NUMBER SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All homes, businesses, private meeting houses, industrial structures,
addressed agricultural structures and addressed recreational vehicles shall
have displayed address numbers that are no less than four inches tall, are on a
background that contrasts with the color scheme of the structure and are of a
reflective material that, when possible, is clearly legible from the road on
which the address is derived.
   (B)   The address numbers shall be installed on the front of the structure,
preferably near the front door. In all cases, a number size larger than the
minimum size may be required in an instance where the minimum size does not
provide adequate identification.
   (C)   For new construction, the Building Inspector shall not issue a
certificate of occupancy or one of compliance until the assigned number is
properly exhibited.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.072 POSTING LOCATIONS.
   (A)   For single-family residential or duplex structures, the structure
number shall be posted and maintained within a three-foot perimeter of the
front entrance of the structure, in a location visible and readable from the
road. For all other structures, the structure number shall be posted on a
building face most readily visible from the road from which the number is
assigned. Unit designators shall be posted at each unit within a three-foot
perimeter of the front entrance of the unit.
   (B)   In the event that a structure or its posted number is not visible from
the road from which its number is assigned, the assigned structure number shall
also be posted on property adjacent to the road. This number shall be a minimum
of four inches in height and located at the primary driveway access point at a
height of at least three feet as to be easily recognized as an address from
inside a responding emergency vehicle.
   (C)   In all cases, the structure number shall be clearly displayed in such
a way that the structure number can easily be identified from the street or
road during both day or night.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.073 MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURE NUMBERS.
   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein, the owner
shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter. Structure numbers and unit designators, as
viewed from the road, shall not be obstructed from view.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
ROAD NAMING
§ 91.085 APPROVAL OF NAMES.
   The chapter administrator shall have authority to approve road names within
the unincorporated areas of the county, subject to the requirements of this
subchapter. The chapter administrator may confer with town officials regarding
road names within incorporated areas of the county. Road names approved by this
section shall be added to the GIS map. Any requests for a road name change
shall require a petition signed by 100% of the resident landowners to be
submitted along with sufficient payment as may be necessary to affect such an
alteration.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.086 DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR NAMES.
   The chapter administrator shall maintain a database of existing road names,
such that duplicate or “deceptively similar” road names are neither approved
nor assigned.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.087 ROAD NAMES.
   New road names that relate to the history, location, or scale of a project
area shall be given consideration.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.088 UNDESIRABLE NAMES.
   The following kinds of names shall be avoided: numerical, alphabetical, and
complicated names, and names which tend to offend the community. The chapter
administrator is given authority to refuse to accept any road name which in his
or her opinion violates the provisions of this subchapter.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.089 ROAD SEGMENTS.
   Each road shall bear the same name and uniform numbering along the entirety
of the road. Segments of roads shall not be allowed to have different or
separate names. The chapter administrator shall determine what constitutes a
road or way. This section does not apply to road names existing prior to March
5, 2012.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.090 IMPASSES.
   Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be assigned
different names and numbering toeach portion of the road on either side of the
impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering system.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.091 EXISTING ROAD NAMES.
   The chapter administrator shall whenever possible, consistent with the
provisions of this chapter, retain road names already established.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS
§ 91.100 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All public road name signs required by this chapter shall be installed and
maintained by the county unless said road is maintained by a municipality, in
which the road signs shall then be installed and maintained by the
municipality. Private road name signs may be installed by the property owner
(s), developer or homeowner's association, but signs must meet the sign
standard design requirements found in §
91.101.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.101 SIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Road name signs that are used for the purposes of addressing a road,
public or private, shall
be required to be legible and accurate with the information they attempt to
convey. The signs should display only the state road number and correct name,
as approved by the county.
   (B)   In the case of private roads, they shall display the official name as
agreed by petition of landowners, or in absence of such petition, may display
either a number that indicates the location that it intersects with a state
road or a name assigned by the E-911 Addressing Coordinator.
   (C)   Any and all signs that may be construed as contradictory in any form
shall hereby be unlawful to erect on or near state rights-of-way.
   (D)   All road name signs shall be a six-inch vertical dimension sign.
   (E)   Road name signs or “blades” shall be made of reflective green sheeting
with the road name in reflective white letters on both sides. Entry/exit road
signs from a private road that abuts a public road must use this sign style and
cannot be a custom-made street sign.
   (F)   In residential districts, at least one road name sign shall be mounted
at each intersection.
   (G)   Whenever physical conditions permit, signs shall be located on the
right hand side of the road as one approaches the intersection.
   (H)   Signs shall be located to optimize nighttime visibility.
   (I)   Only road names approved by the county shall be placed on signs.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.102 EXISTING ROAD SIGNS.
   The chapter administrator shall retain existing road signs already in place,
except for those signs which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter and substantially affect the purposes sought to be carried out by this
chapter.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.110 ADMINISTRATOR AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The E-911 Addressing Coordinator, or his or her designee, is given
authority to administer and assign county addresses, and to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Questions arising from the enforcement of this
chapter shall be interpreted by the E-911 Addressing Coordinator or his or her
designee.
   (B)   Interpretation of this chapter shall be accomplished by the E-911
Addressing Coordinator or his or her designee.
   (C)   The chapter administrator shall report to the Ashe County Board of
Commissioners at their scheduled meetings as needed to keep the members of the
boards informed of any pertinent addressing related matters and to provide them
with a summary of any such matters.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.111 APPLICATIONS AND PETITIONS.
   The chapter administrator shall accept and examine all requests, road naming
petitions, signage variances and initial appeals.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.112 PETITIONING FOR A ROAD NAME.
   Roads eligible for naming by means of this chapter, may be named by
submitting a petition signed by all of the land owners along the road and upon
approval by the chapter administrator.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.113 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Final approval for a certificate of occupancy of any structure or building
erected or repaired after the effective date of this chapter shall be withheld
until permanent and proper structure numbers have been posted in accordance
with the requirements herein.
(Ord. passed 11-18-92; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.114 PROCEDURE UPON DENIAL.
   Any person denied a request directed to the chapter administrator may
protest in writing to the chapter administrator. If not satisfied with the
administrator’s final decision, an appeal may be directed to the County
Manager.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.115 LETTER OF NOTIFICATION: CHANGES TO ADDRESSES.
   Whenever there is a change in the addressing system involving any portion of
an address, the land owner of that parcel's address as shown on the county's
tax listing shall be mailed a notice of the proposed address change in the
addressing system. The notice shall be mailed by first class mail.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 91.116 PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED FOR AMENDMENTS.
   These chapter regulations may be amended or revised from time to time by the
Board of County Commissioners. A public hearing shall be held by the Board of
County Commissioners before the adoption of any proposed amendments to this
chapter if the amendments will affect more than five addressable structures.
The Board shall cause notice of public hearing which shall be advertised once a
week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the first time not
less than ten days or more than 25 days before the appointed date of the
hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is not to be
included, but the day of the hearing shall be included.
(Ord. passed 4-5-21)
§ 91.117 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a different
address or portion thereof except as provided by this chapter or the GIS Map.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to name or designate the name of
any private road, street, drive, cartway, easement, right-of-way, access area
or any other thoroughfare, except as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road
sign that does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally destroy, mar, or
deface any county road name sign.
   (E)   Punishment for violations provided for in this subchapter shall be as
set forth in §
91.999.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.118 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Notification of violation shall:
   (A)   Be issued by the chapter administrator or his or her designee;
   (B)   Be in writing, directed to the name and address of the owner of the
structure by regular mail first and if no response by certified mail return
receipt; and
   (C)   Set forth the action necessary for the offender to be in compliance
with this chapter.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.119 LEGAL PROSECUTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the county from taking other such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.120 APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR VARIANCE.
   Road naming appeals and appeals for signage variance shall adhere to the
procedures below:
   (A)   First appeal or request for variance must:
      (1)   Be in writing, directed to the chapter administrator.
      (2)   Be dated and describe the reasons for the appeal.
      (3)   Appeals shall clearly state that all property owners along the road
are aware that any road name sign posting variance may hinder emergency
response personnel in their efforts to locate a particular address.
      (4)   Contain the signatures of all the property owners along the road.
   (B)   Second appeal must be in writing, directed to the County Manager.
   (C)   Appeals from decision of the County Manager may be made to the Board
of Commissioners.
(Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-
4 and may be punished as provided by §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who intentionally calls the E911 number for other than
purposes of obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following
procedure:
      (1)   Initial notification of violation, in writing by first class mail,
to the last known address of the person to be notified.
      (2)   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation may be issued.
      (3)   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning
citation, a second citation including a fine of $25 may be issued.
      (4)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Road name signs. Violations of §§
91.100 through
91.102 shall be punishable by maximum fines of up to $250 for each violation.
(Ord. passed 5-7-90; Amended 3-19-12; Amended 4-5-21)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Applicability
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.04   Inspection schedule
   
92.05   Fees and permits
   
92.06   Minimum requirements
   
92.07   Conflicting regulations
   
92.08   Amendments
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   To regulate activities and conditions in buildings, structures, and premises
that pose danger of fire, explosion, or related hazards, this fire prevention
code is adopted in accordance with G.S. § 143-138, as amended from time to
time, and Chapter 4, Volume V of the North Carolina State Building Code, as
amended from time to time. This fire prevention code shall be considered the
minimum standards necessary to preserve and protect public health and safety in
the county.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all buildings, structures,
premises that pose a danger of fires, explosions, or related hazards within the
county. The provisions of this code shall apply equally to existing as well as
new buildings, structures, premises and conditions except that existing
buildings, structures, premises and conditions which complied with the minimum
safety standards of the code in effect at the time of construction or
installation and which have been properly maintained shall be deemed as
complying with this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Buildings for the use of any farmer or his/her immediate family
when use of the building does not involve the health and safety of the public.
If the operation of such can be considered a business endeavor, it shall meet
the provisions of the technical code. EXCEPTIONS: All buildings used for
sleeping purposes shall conform to the provisions of the technical codes. All
electrical wiring of houses, buildings, or structures shall conform to the
provisions of the North Carolina State Electrical Code.
      (3)   The design, construction, location, installation or operation of
equipment or facilities of a public utility, as defined in G.S. § 62-3, or an
electric or telephone membership corporation, including without limitations
poles, towers, and other structures supporting electric or communications lines
from the distribution network up to the meter location. NOTE: All buildings
owned and/or operated by a public utility or an electric or telephone
membership corporation shall meet the provisions of the Code.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.04 INSPECTION SCHEDULE.
   In order to preserve and protect public health and safety, the county shall
establish a periodic inspection schedule for the purpose of identifying
activities and conditions in buildings, structures, and premises that pose
danger of fire, explosion, or related hazards. In no case may inspections be
conducted less frequently than described in the following schedule:
 
Once every year        Hazardous, Institutional, High Rise, Assembly
Once every two years   Industrial and Educational (except public schools)
Once every three years Business, Mercantile Storage, Churches and Synagogues
 
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.05 FEES AND PERMITS.
   Permits for new construction shall be required as per Chapter 4, Volume V of
the North Carolina State Building Code. Fees for new construction shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Permits required.
   (B)   Fees for new construction.
      (1)   Up to 5,000 sq. ft. - $45.
      (2)   Over 5,000 sq. ft. - $45, plus $0.13 per 100 sq. ft. over 5,000 sq.
ft.
   (C)   Existing buildings.
      (1)   Up to 5,000 sq. ft. - $45.
      (2)   Over 5,000 sq. ft. - $45, plus $0.13 per 100 sq. ft. over 5,000 sq.
ft.
   (D)   Churches - $13.
   (E)   Day cares - $19.
   (F)   Underground storage tanks.
      (1)   Removal - $40.
      (2)   Installation - $65.
   (G)   Special events - $13.
   (H)   Fireworks for public display - $32.
   (I)   Blasting permit - $40.
   (J)   All other permits and inspections - $26.
(Ord. passed - -95; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-01; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-06)
§ 92.06 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for promotion of health, safety, moral, and general welfare of the
public. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted regulations the most restrictive or
that imposing the higher standards shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.07 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances, rules and regulations heretofore adopted by the County
Commissioners or the North Carolina Department of Insurance or their successor
organization, governing Fire Inspections which are in conflict with these
regulations are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.08 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -95)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate the rules and regulations adopted by the County
Commissioners or the North Carolina Department of Insurance and the North
Carolina State Building Codes, or their successor organization, they shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or
imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. Article 22, Chapter
130, Section 203.
(Ord. passed - -95)
CHAPTER 93: JUNK MATERIALS, JUNK YARDS, AND ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Intent and purpose
   
93.02   Title
   
93.03   Geographic coverage
   
93.04   Definitions
   
93.05   Exemptions from chapter
   
93.06   Procedures: registration and permitting
   
93.07   General standards
   
93.08   Maintenance
   
93.09   Enforcement provisions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose and objectives for which this chapter is adopted and enacted are
as follows:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   To preserve the natural scenic beauty of areas in the vicinity of
roads located in unincorporated areas of the county.
   (C)   To protect the public from health nuisances and safety hazards by
controlling vectors, concentrations of volatile or poisonous materials, and
sources of danger to children.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.02 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the “The Ashe County
Ordinance for Control of Junk Materials, Junkyards and Abandoned Motor
Vehicles”.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.03 GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE.
   These regulations shall be in effect in all unincorporated portions of Ashe
County which are not under the jurisdiction portions of any municipal zoning
ordinance. Any incorporated municipality may adopt this chapter by reference
and make the same applicable to all areas within its respective zoning
jurisdiction. This chapter shall not apply to any highways or adjacent areas,
which are controlled by the North Carolina Junkyard Control Act and which are
actively regulated pursuant to that Act by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD.  Any tract of land, establishment or place of business
which is maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling
wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts
for profit and shall include any tract of land, establishment or place of
business upon which more than six such motor vehicles which cannot be operated
under their own power, are not being restored to operable condition, and which
are kept or stored for profit for a period of 90 days or more.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The County Manager or his designee.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any place, land, building or structure on which or in which
there is operated or maintained a business or going concern.
   GARAGE.  Any establishment or place of business which is maintained and
operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body repairs to
motor vehicles. and which may store as many as six motor vehicles that are not
capable of being driven under their own power and are not being restored to
operable condition, regardless of the length of time that individual motor
vehicles are stored or kept at such property. If the garage is listed as a
business in the Tax Assessor’s Office by January 31 of each year and consists
of two acres, six additional motor vehicles as described herein may be allowed.
   HEALTH, NUISANCE OR SAFETY HAZARDS.  A motor vehicle, new or used machinery,
or other new or used materials may be declared a health nuisance or safety
hazard when it is found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects,
snakes, rats, or other pests; or
      (2)   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water; or
      (3)   An unsafe concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive material; or
      (4)   So located that there is a danger of the vehicle falling or turning
over without assistance; or
      (5)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside; the overturning of heavy
items; or
      (6)   An unsafe concentration of car radiators, batteries, or other
materials that pose either a hazard of immediate or long-term environmental
degradation.
   JUNK.  Old or scrapped copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, refrigerators, stoves, household and commercial
appliances or fixtures, indoor furniture, scrapped building materials,
discarded machinery, junked motor vehicles, or parts thereof; iron and steel
and other scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material and plastics.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.  A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   JUNKYARD.  Any place which is maintained, operated, or used for a period of
90 days or more for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. A junkyard shall be
presumed to have been created when an area of 600 square feet or more of junk
are kept or stored at any given place whether for profit or not. Materials
enclosed in closed buildings, solid waste containers or rolling stock (i.e.,
rail cars, trailer, or other containerized body not intended or designed to be
self propelled) are excluded.
   JUNKYARD CONTROL ACT. G.S. §§ 136-141 through 155 (Article 12), which
delegate to the North Carolina Department of Transportation the responsibility
to regulate “junkyards” and “automobile graveyards” located on interstate and
federal-aid primary system highways.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle or machine designed or intended to travel over
land by self propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NEW JUNKYARD.  Junkyards established after the effective date of this
chapter or existing junkyards which do not register within the specified time
limit in order to meet the designation of pre-existing.
   OPAQUE.  A substance that cannot be seen through when viewed perpendicularly
at the same elevation.
   PRE-EXISTING JUNKYARD.  Junkyards in existence at the time of effective date
of this chapter which register within the specified time.
   PUBLIC ROAD.  Any road or highway which is now or hereafter designated and
maintained by the North Carolina Department of Transportation as part of the
State Highway System.
   RECYCLING CENTER.  A temporary or permanent site at which glass, aluminum
cans, paper, plastic, clothes or similar materials commonly collected for
recycling are collected and moved off site or kept on site in buildings,
storage bins, solid waste containers, truck trailers and other rolling stock.
   RESIDENCE. A house, mobile home, an apartment, a group of homes, or a single
room occupied or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters for one or
more humans.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private institution for the teaching of children under
18 years of age which is recognized and approved by the North Carolina Board of
Education or other appropriate licensing boards.
   SERVICE STATION.  Any establishment which is maintained and operated for the
purpose of making retail sales of fuels, lubricants, air, water and other items
for the operation and routine maintenance of motor vehicles, and/or for making
mechanical repairs, servicing and/or washing of motor vehicles and which is
used to store not more than six motor vehicles that are not capable of being
restored to operable conditions regardless of the length of time that
individual motor vehicles are stored, or kept at such property. If the service
station is listed as a business in the Tax Assessor’s Office by January 31 of
each year and consists of two acres, six additional motor vehicles as described
herein may be allowed.
   VEGETATION.  All season or evergreen vegetation shall mean evergreen trees
with leaves or foliage at all seasons of the year and shall include, but not be
limited to, white pine, southern pine, hemlock and spruce trees.
   UNZONED AREA. An area where there is no zoning in effect.
   VECTORS.  An organism that carries disease-causing micro-organisms from one
host to another (e.g., rats, mosquitoes, etc.).
   VISIBLE.  Capable of being seen without visual aid by a person of normal
visual acuity.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.05 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The following uses and activities are exempted:
   (A)   Bona fide service stations or garages as defined by this chapter;
   (B)   Recycling centers using enclosed structures or solid waste containers,
bins, truck trailers and rolling stock to store materials and equipment;
   (C)   Salvage material or junk cars in enclosed buildings.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.06 PROCEDURES: REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   Registration time period. All owners, operators, or maintainers of
automobile graveyards or other junkyards existing at the effective date of this
chapter shall register same with the county within a period of 180 days from
the effective date of this chapter. All existing automobile graveyards or
junkyards that have not been registered within 180 days shall be in violation
of the registration provisions of this chapter. Unless such junkyards can be
documented to the satisfaction of the Compliance Officer as existing prior to
the effective date of this chapter they shall be considered new junkyards. If
so documented, said junkyards may be considered existing junkyards; they are
required to register and required to comply with a revised compliance schedule
listed in division (G) of this section.
   (B)   Registration application. Registration shall be accomplished by
completing a registration application and paying a fee as established by the
Board of County Commissioners. The Compliance Officer shall provide the
necessary forms for the registration application. The registration application
shall include but not be limited to the following information: land owner’s and
junkyard operator’s name, address and phone numbers for business and home,
state and/or local business registration number or license, the location of the
property by township, physical address and property identification number, the
total acreage of the property and approximate acreage of the property and
acreage involved in the junkyard operation. One copy of the completed signed
registration application shall be submitted to the Compliance Officer.
   (C)   Time period for permit of registered junkyards.  All existing
junkyards at the effective date of this chapter, registered in accordance with
division (B) of this section, shall be granted a period of 90 days from the
effective date of registration to receive a permit. Thereafter they shall be in
violation of the permitting provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Permit required for junkyards. No person, firm or business entity
shall establish, operate, or maintain a junkyard without obtaining a permit.
Any expansion of a junkyard, whether pre-existing or newly permitted, shall
require a permit. The permit shall only be issued upon the persons, firm or
business entity seeking the permit submitting a statement that the existing or
proposed junkyard does not violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The
permit shall be valid unless revoked for non-conformance with this chapter.
   (E)   Permit application.
      (1)   Application for the permit shall be made to the Compliance Officer
on such forms as the Compliance Officer shall prescribe, along with a
nonrefundable permit fee as established by the Board of Commissioners. The
permit application shall include, but not be limited to the information
required for the registration application and a junkyard plan.
      (2)   The plan shall indicate setbacks, location of public rights-of-way,
all existing and proposed structures, bodies of water, water sources, all
structures within 500 feet of junkyard, driveways, entrances, fencing,
screening, types of fencing, types of screening dimensions of junkyard, gross
acreage, preparer of plan’s name(s) and address(es) and phone numbers. Plans
shall be at a scale no larger than one inch equals 400 feet. Three copies shall
be submitted. Any expansion of a junkyard, whether pre-existing or newly
permitted, shall require a permit. Procedures and standards for an expansion
permit shall be those required for a new establishment.
   (F)   Permitting procedure. The completed permit application and junkyard
plan shall be submitted to the Compliance Officer. The Compliance Officer shall
have the authority to either approve or deny the permit. A denied permit may be
resubmitted within 14 days from the date of denial without incurring an
additional permit fee.
   (G)   Permitting compliance.
      (1)   Existing junkyards shall conform to the approved permit and
standards of this chapter in accordance with the graduated compliance schedule
listed as follows. The times listed are from the date of plan approval.
         (a)   Meet §
93.07(B)(6) within one month;
         (b)   Meet §
93.07(B)(7) within three months;
         (c)   Meet §
93.07(B)(5) within 36 months;
         (d)   Meet §
93.07(B)(8) within 36 months;
         (e)   Meet §
93.07(B)(9) within 36 months;
         (f)   Meet §
93.07(B)(4) within 36 months.
      (2)   Junkyards discovered after the registration time period of division
(A) above, but documented to the satisfaction of the Compliance Officer as
being in existence prior to this chapter shall conform to applicable portions
of this chapter. The time period of compliance shall run from the date of
discovery. Items (G)(1)(a) - (c) shall have the time period listed, but items
(G)(1)(d) - (f) shall have a time period of 12 months.
      (3)   New junkyards shall conform to the approved permit and standards of
this chapter prior to the establishment of the use as a junkyard on the
property. Failure to meet the requirements of the approved permit and standards
of this chapter shall be a violation of the compliance provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.07 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Junkyards in existence on the effective date of this chapter shall conform
to the requirements of this chapter as applicable.
   (A)   Pre-existing junkyards. Pre-existing junkyards shall meet the
requirements specified in divisions (B)(4) - (6), (8) and (9) of this section.
   (B)   New junkyards. The following criteria shall be applicable to new
junkyards. All junkyards which are established from and after the effective
date of this chapter shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Not be located closer than 500 feet to a pre-existing church,
school, day care center, nursing home, skilled health care facility, hospital,
public recreation facilities or residence (excluding residence of the owner or
his agent or employee); and
      (2)   Be situated on a parcel of at least four acres excluding rights-of-
way that are undivided by public road right-of-way or public dedication; and
      (3)   Any driveway, roadway, or entrance to the proposed junkyard shall
not be located closer than 30 feet from any side property line; and
      (4)   Have a minimum setback for any junked material from the required
fence and/or vegetative screening from the front, side and rear property lines
excluding road right-of-way of at least 20 feet; and
      (5)   All buildings, (excluding existing buildings and equipment and
operations therein) equipment, operation, (except roads) and junk shall not be
situated within 25 feet of an intermittent or continuously flowing stream as
designated on the most recent U.S. Geological Survey maps. The same shall not
be closer than 100 feet to the bank of a river or an intermittent or
continuously flowing stream that is located within one-half mile of a river;
and
      (6)   All buildings, (except existing buildings, and equipment and
operations therein) equipment, and operations (except roads) shall not be
situated within ten feet of the front, side and rear property lines excluding
road rights-of-way and at least 30 feet from the main traveled portion of the
public state- maintained road or highway; and
      (7)   If the proposed junkyard is to be within 500 feet of an occupied
structure (excluding a residence occupied by the junkyard owner and/or
operator), then the junkyard shall be completely enclosed by a fence a minimum
of six feet in height by a woven or welded wire (24-gauge minimum) fence, chain
link, wooden or solid metal fence. When fencing is required there shall be
screening according to division (B)(8) below. Screening is not required when
natural vegetation is a depth of 25 feet and minimum of six feet in height
between the junkyard and the occupied structure. Fencing requirements shall not
apply if a structure is constructed on land purchased after the junkyard is
registered or permitted, if not otherwise applicable; and
      (8)   If proposed or pre-existing junkyard property is visible from the
public state maintained road or pre-existing occupied structure within 500 feet
of the proposed or pre-existing junkyard property, the proposed or pre-existing
junkyard owner shall provide an opaque fence along all visible sides of the
property or install vegetation that provides a continuous all-season opaque
screen at least six feet in height within four years of planting or setting
said vegetation. Vegetation not less than two feet in height at the time of
planting shall be planted. Additional screening may not be required along the
road when natural vegetation exists that provides an all-season opaque
screening. If natural vegetation is reduced below the depth or effectiveness
specified, the property shall be required to be screened according to this
section. This does not exempt the property from being fenced as specified in
division (B)(7), except for pre-existing junkyards. Screening requirements
shall not apply if the residence or occupied structure is constructed on land
purchased after the junkyard is registered or permitted, if not otherwise
applicable. Where due to distance, topography or other site considerations the
Compliance Officer determines from field investigation that the height
screening required would not screen the junkyard, said screening may not be
required along the applicable property lines. Each owner, operator, or
maintainer of a junkyard shall utilize good husbandry techniques such as
pruning, mulching, and proper fertilization, so that the vegetation will have
maximum density and foliage. Dead or diseased vegetation shall be replaced at
the next appropriate planting time.
      (9)   All junk and/or inoperable motor vehicles shall be kept within the
confines of said fence and/or vegetative screening at all times unless in
motion by transport to or from the site.
      (10)   On-site traffic areas shall be provided and arranged in a manner
to provide adequate areas to prevent backward movement onto the state
maintained road.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.08 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All junkyards shall be maintained to protect the public from health
nuisances and safety hazards.
   (B)   The County Health Department may inspect each junkyard to determine
that no vectors are present. The Compliance Officer may also inspect each
junkyard to determine that no vectors are present and that no other violations
exist. Should vectors or other violations be identified, the owner/operator/
maintainer shall submit satisfactory evidence to the Health Department and
Planning Department that vectors or other violations have been eliminated.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section may result in revocation of permit
as well as other penalties and remedies for violation as provided for in §
93.09.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04)
§ 93.09 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Compliance Officer shall enforce this chapter. The
Compliance Officer shall periodically travel all county roads for the purpose
of discovering violations of this chapter. He may call upon other agencies as
necessary to assist in enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, whenever the Compliance Officer receives a complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter, the Compliance Officer shall investigate
the complaint and take whatever action is warranted. The complainant’s name(s)
shall not be divulged nor record made of the complaint.
      (3)   The owner, tenant, or occupant of any building or land or any part
thereof and agent or other person who participate in, assists, directs,
creates, or maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of
this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties
and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
   (B)   The following procedure shall apply upon discovery of a violation.
      (1)   If the Compliance Officer finds that any provisions of this chapter
are being violated, he shall send a written notice to the person responsible
for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and advising the violator of the number of days or
months within which the violation shall be corrected. The violator shall be
informed of his right to appeal to the Planning Board.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety, or welfare, the Compliance Officer may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized in this section.
   (C)   Variance.
      (1)   The Planning Board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will, in an individual case, result in practical
difficulty or extreme hardship, and so that the spirit of the chapter shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done, such
variance may be granted in such individual case of extreme hardship upon a
finding by the Planning Board that the following conditions exist:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular place or property in question because of its size, shape or
topography that are not applicable to other automobile graveyards and junkyards
governed by this chapter;
         (b)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other operators of other
automobile graveyards and junkyards governed by this chapter;
         (c)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other operators of
automobile graveyards or junkyards governed by this chapter;
         (d)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
         (e)   The special circumstances are not the result of the action of
the applicant;
         (f)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land in question.
      (2)   In granting a variance the Planning Board shall make findings that
the requirements of this section have been met. The Planning Board shall make a
finding, and written notice of the decision shall be prepared and furnished to
the applicant. In granting any variance, the Planning Board may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   (D)   Decision. Decisions of the Planning Board may be appealed; to do so a
petition for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the Ashe County Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after the later of the following occurrences:
      (1)   A written copy of the Planning Board’s decision has been filed in
the office of the County Planning Department; and
      (2)   A written copy of the Planning Board’s decision has been delivered,
by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
applicant or appellate and every other aggrieved party who has filed a written
request for such copy at the hearing of the case. A copy of the petition for
writ of certiorari shall be served upon the county through the office of the
County Manager.
(Ord. passed 6-21-04; Amended 3-5-12)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to punishment as provided for
by G.S. § 14-4. Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate
offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to $500
per day. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for
violation of the ordinance may be recovered in a civil action in the General
Court of Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 153A-123, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Adopted 3-5-12)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Purpose and authority
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Park buildings and other property
   
94.04   Vehicular traffic
   
94.05   Recreational activities
   
94.06   Fees
   
94.07   Amendments
   
94.08   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Providing recreational facilities and services for the citizens of the
county of all age groups is and should be the major function of the governing
body of the county. To provide for the safe and sanitary use of such
facilities, this chapter is ordained to regulate the conditions and activities
within the confines of the county park and any other property or building owned
or leased by the county that is or may be used for recreational purposes.
   (B)   The following regulations for the protection of the public are hereby
adopted pursuant to authority granted in the provisions of G.S. § 160A-353 as
may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Ashe County Recreation Advisory Board as appointed by
the County Commissioners.
   COUNTY.  The County of Ashe, North Carolina.
   DIRECTOR. The Recreation Director of the county, and is in charge of any
park area, its personnel and its activities.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, recreation center or any other area
or building the county, owns or leases that is devoted to any active or passive
recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. Those activities of a special nature that are not normal
occurrences and which require special preparation and supervision.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal drawn, or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size or
description. Baby carriages and vehicles in the service of the county park are
excluded.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.03 PARK BUILDINGS AND OTHER PROPERTY.
   In order to maintain the integrity of the ecologically sensitive areas in
the park, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, displace or
remove property of any type from the park.
   (B)   Fail to cooperate in maintaining rest rooms and wash rooms in a neat
and sanitary condition. No person over the age of five years shall use rest
rooms and wash rooms designated for the opposite sex.
   (C)   Remove any of the natural or man-made resources of any type from the
park area.
   (D)   Construct or erect any building, structure or shelter of any type
without the permission of the Advisory Board.
   (E)   Climb upon any man-made or natural edifice that is not designed or
customarily used for such purposes.
   (F)   Destroy, hunt, feed or remove any of the flora or fauna from the park.
   (G)   Pollute by any means or methods any stream, ditch, pond, or any source
of water within the confines of the park.
   (H)   Deposit or leave any trash or refuse of any type in the park area
except in the proper receptacles that are provided.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.
   The motor vehicle laws of the state are applicable to all vehicles operating
within the park area. All traffic signs, posted speed limits, and parking
regulations shall be strictly enforced. All vehicles, of any type, shall
confine their driving or riding to roads designated for that purpose. No
vehicle, of any type, shall be driven or ridden upon any grassed area, or
walking trail within the confines of the park.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The County Recreation Director shall, upon request, furnish a copy of
the recreational activities permitted, the hours of operation, a code of
conduct as to alcohol, drugs, fireworks, pets, firearms, vending, peddling, and
other harmful actions.
   (B)   Days and hours of park operations will be dependent upon weather
conditions and to the extent that new facilities are added for general use. Any
or all park facilities may be closed at any time for unusual circumstances at
the discretion of the Recreation Director. The normal opening and closing hours
for the park shall be posted therein for public information.
   (C)   Reservations of certain areas of the park may be allowed through
proper scheduling with the Recreation Director. Blank permit forms are
available at the park office of the Recreation Director. Usage permits will be
issued on a first come, first served basis.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.06 FEES.
   (A)   An appropriate fee shall be charged for the use of certain park
facilities. The fee schedule is as follows:
      (1)   Shelter rentals shall be available for rent in three time periods
as follows:
         (a)   9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.   $10
         (b)   2:00 p.m. to close   $10
         (c)   9:00 a.m. to close   $20
      (2)   Non-profit organizations requesting use of the entire park or a
portion thereof, must submit an application for use of the park 60 days in
advance of the date requested. Non-profit organizations may use the park for
approved activities without charge. Each request must be approved by the
Recreation Director and the Advisory Board.
      (3)   For-profit organizations requesting use of the entire park must
submit an application for use of the park 60 days in advance of the date
requested. Each request must be approved by the Recreation Director and the
Advisory Board. Upon approval of their activity, the following fee schedule
shall apply:
         (a)   Half day   $250
         (b)   Full day   $500
   (B)   The Recreation Director reserves the right to charge all park users a
reasonable fee for clean-up and damages.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.07 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Advisory Board and the Recreation Director shall consider and make
recommendations to the County Commissioners concerning each proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Recreation Director and the park staff shall be appointed by the County
Manager. The Recreation Director and appointed staff shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter and any other applicable rules as adopted by the
Advisory Board. The Director and any park staff shall have the authority to
eject from the park any person or persons acting in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons violating any provisions of this chapter and any other
rules of the Advisory Board shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined or be imprisoned in the county jail as set
forth in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-21-95)
CHAPTER 95: RADIATION CONTROL
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Radioactive material unlawful
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the County Radiation Control
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 6-2-80)
§ 95.02 PURPOSE.
   In pursuance of authority conferred by G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 6, and for
the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, general welfare, and the
protection of persons and property in the county from the harmful effects of
radiation, the Board of County Commissioners ordain this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-2-80)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Board of Commissioners.
   IONIZING RADIATION. Gamma rays and x-rays, alpha and beta particles; but not
sound or radio waves, or visible, infrared, or ultraviolet light.
   NONIONIZING RADIATION. Radiation in any portion of the electromagnetic
spectrum not defined as ionizing radiation, including, but not limited to, such
sources as laser, maser or microwave devices.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, political subdivision of
this state, any other state or political subdivision or agency thereof, and any
legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing, other than
the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or any successor thereto, and
other than federal government agencies licensed by the United States Nuclear
Regulatory Commission, or any successor thereto.
   RADIATION. Gamma rays and x-rays, alpha and beta particles, high speed
electrons, protons, neutrons, and other nuclear particles, and electro-magnetic
radiation consisting of associated and interacting electric magnetic waves
including those with frequencies between three times 10 to the eighth power
cycles per second and three times 10 to the twenty-fourth power cycles per
second and wave-lengths between one times 10 to the minus fourteenth power
centimeters and 100 centimeters.
   RADIATION MACHINE. Any device designed to produce or which produces
radiation or nuclear particles when the associated control devices of the
machine are operated.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL. Any solid, liquid, or gas which emits ionizing
radiation spontaneously.
(Ord. passed 6-2-80)
§ 95.04 RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL UNLAWFUL.
   it shall be unlawful for any person to use, manufacture, produce, process,
store, bury, transport, transfer, receive, acquire, own or possess radioactive
material in the county, except persons directly involved in the use of
radiation machines or radio-active materials for medical diagnosis treatment.
(Ord. passed 6-2-80) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by G.S. §
14-4. Each day of violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a civil penalty to be recovered by the county in the sum of $500 for
each violation payable within ten days after such person has been cited for
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced by each and every remedy enumerated in
G.S. § 153A-123(d), (e), said provisions being incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. passed 6-2-80)
CHAPTER 96: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
96.01   Alarm system requirements
   
96.02   Multiple alarm systems
   
96.03   Response to alarm; determination of validity
   
96.04   Review of false alarm determinations
   
96.05   Service charge assessment for false alarms
   
96.06   Automatic dial protection devices prohibited
   
96.07   Prohibited acts
   
96.08   Enforcement of provisions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 ALARM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Alarm reset. An alarm user may not install, maintain or use an audible
alarm system(s) which can sound continually for more than 15 minutes.
   (B)   Faulty alarm standby. An alarm user may not install, maintain or use
an alarm system(s) that does not have a bypass or standby mode in the event
continuous false alarms are occurring.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-19) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 MULTIPLE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   If an alarm user has one or more alarm systems protecting two or more
separate structures having different addresses, and any one or more of the
installed alarm systems have activated with false alarms in a manner that
disqualifies the address of that alarm system from police response:
   (A)    It shall only affect the police response to the specific address(s)
and structure(s) monitored by the false activating alarm system;
   (B)   Police response will remain active at the additional address(s) and
structure(s) not monitored by the installed alarm system that has violated this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-19)
§ 96.03 RESPONSE TO ALARM; DETERMINATION OF VALIDITY.
   (A)   Police response. Whenever an alarm is activated in the unincorporated
area of the county and the County Sheriff’s Department does respond, a deputy
on the scene of the activated alarm system shall inspect the area and shall
determine whether the police response was in fact necessary as indicated by the
alarm system or whether the alarm was a false alarm.
   (B)   Notification. If the deputy at the scene of the activated alarm system
determines the alarm to be false, the deputy shall make a report of the false
alarm. An alarm user shall be notified of each false alarm determination.
   (C)   Inspection. The Sheriff shall have the right to inspect any alarm
system on the premises to which a response has been made at any reasonable time
thereafter to determine whether it is being used in conformity with the terms
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96)
§ 96.04 REVIEW OF FALSE ALARM DETERMINATIONS.
   Request for review. The Ashe County Sheriff's Office shall, when requested
by an alarm user, review the determination that an alarm was false. Such review
shall be conducted by the Ashe County Sheriff's Office only if the alarm user
requests in writing such a review within ten days of the date that the alarm
user was notified of the false alarm determination. The written request for
review of a false alarm determination by the Ashe County Sheriff's Office shall
include the following information.
   (A)   Alarm user name;
   (B)   Address at which alarm is installed;
   (C)   Date of false alarm that is being contested;
   (D)   Alarm user permit number;
   (E)   Facts upon which the request for review of the false alarm
determination is made.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-19)
§ 96.05 SERVICE CHARGE ASSESSMENT FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   Excessive false alarms. It is hereby found and determined that three
or more false alarms within any 12-month period is excessive and constitutes a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   The third through fifth false alarms within a 12-month period will
result in the alarm user being billed a $50 service charge per occurrence which
shall be considered a bill owed by the alarm user to the county and may be
collected from the alarm user as a civil penalty. Each $50 service
chargeincurred for the third through fifth false alarms at the premises
described in the alarm user’s permit shall be paid within 30 days from date of
receipt of the invoice.
      (2)   The sixth false alarm within a 12-month period, and all false
alarms thereafter, shall result in the County Sheriff's Department
discontinuing responses to alarms that occur at the premises as well as
increasing civil penalties as listed below:
         (a)   6th false alarm – $100;
         (b)   7th false alarm – $100;
         (c)   8th false alarm – $250;
         (d)   9th false alarm – $250;
         (e)   10th and over false alarms – $500 per false alarm
   (C)   Discontinuance of police response.
      (1)   The failure of an alarm user to make payment of any service charge
imposed under this section within 30 days from date of receipt shall result in
a discontinuance of police response to alarms that may occur at the premises
until all civil penalty payments are satisfied in full.
   (D)   Reinstatement of police response. Any premises the has an installed
alarm system that has violated the aforementioned division in such that police
response has discontinued may only have police response reinstated once the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   All civil penalties as set forth in §
96.99 have been satisfied in full by the alarm user to the county.
      (2)   All necessary repairs, adjustments and/or corrections to the
installed alarm system have been corrected in manner as such to prevent
additional false alarms.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96; Am. Ord. passed 11-18-19) Penalty, see §
96.99
2019 S-32
§ 96.06 AUTOMATIC DIAL PROTECTION DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No automatic dial protection device shall be used to report, or cause to be
reported, any recorded message to the County Sheriff’s Department on or after
October 1, 1997.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate a burglary or robbery
alarm for the purpose of summoning police when no burglary or robbery, or other
crime dangerous to life or property, is being committed or attempted on the
premises, or otherwise to cause a false alarm.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail to reimburse the
county, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, for response(s) by
the County Sheriff’s Department to any false alarm(s).
(Ord. passed 7-17-96) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The County Sheriff’s Department may enforce the provisions of this chapter
by one or a combination of the methods set forth in §
96.99.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
may be fined by a civil penalty of $100 which may be recovered by the county in
a civil action in the nature of a debt if the violator does not pay the penalty
within 30 days from the date the violator is notified of the penalty. Any other
service charges imposed by this chapter may be collected by the county as a
civil penalty in a civil action. All service charges and penalties collected by
the county or the County Sheriff’s Department pursuant to this chapter must be
paid to the county within 30 days of receipt unless the county provides in an
interlocal cooperation agreement some other application of such service charges
and civil penalties.
   (B)   Equitable remedy. The county may apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for an injunction, abatement order or any other appropriate
equitable remedy.
(Ord. passed 7-17-96)
CHAPTER 97: REGULATION OF NOISE
Section
   
97.01   Authority and need for regulation
   
97.02   Prohibition of unreasonable noise
   
97.03   Exemptions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 AUTHORITY AND NEED FOR REGULATION.
   (A)   The authority for a county to regulate noise is G.S. § 153A-133. A
county may by ordinance regulate, restrict, or prohibit the production or
emission of noises or amplified speech, music, or other sounds that tend to
annoy, disturb, or frighten its citizens.
   (B)   It is found and declared that:
      (1)   The making and creation of excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud
noises within the county limits is a condition which has existed for some time
and the extent and volume of such noises are increasing.
      (2)   The making and creation of excessive or unusually loud noises and
sounds interfere with and pose a threat to the health of the sick, the young,
and the elderly.
      (3)   The making, creation or maintenance of such excessive, unnecessary,
unnatural or unusually loud noises which are prolonged, unusual, and unnatural
in their time, place and use are a detriment to the public health, comfort,
convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents of the county.
      (4)   The making of excessive or unusually loud sounds and noises
constitute a nuisance which threatens the peace and dignity of the county.
      (5)   The necessity and the public interest for the provisions and
prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are declared as a matter of
legislative determination and public policy, and it is further declared that
the provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and enacted are in
pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity and the peace and quiet of
the county and its inhabitants.
(Ord. passed 7-20-98)
§ 97.02 PROHIBITION OF UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be
made or continued or to create or knowingly assist in creating any unreasonably
loud, excessive, unnecessary noise or sound in the county, taking into
consideration the volume, duration, frequency, time and other characteristics
of the sound.
   (B)   Making such unreasonably loud, excessive or unnecessary noise or sound
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of the week or
continuing to make, create or knowingly assist in creating any unreasonably
loud, excessive or unnecessary noise or sound after receiving actual knowledge
that such noises or sounds are disturbing to persons in the vicinity shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-20-98) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are some mandated exemptions; however, the list is not
inclusive.
   (A)   Athletic events and contests such as football games, baseball games
and other outdoor sporting events shall be exempt from regulation hereunder so
long as such events are sponsored under the authority of the county or the
county public schools or any other governmental authority. The use of any loud
speaker or electronic sound amplification equipment in connection with any
other athletic event which results in the creation of unreasonably loud
disturbing noises and sound levels which a reasonably prudent person would
recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity shall not
be allowed.
   (B)   Application for permission to engage in activities regulated and
allowed by this section between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. only with
the issuance of a permit shall be made to the County Sheriff or their designee
on forms supplied by the county. The permit shall not be unreasonably withheld
and may contain appropriate conditions.
   (C)   Permits issued under this section shall specify the expiration date
and shall provide that such permits may be revoked after actual notice.
   (D)   In case an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt informal hearing with the County Manager
upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved by a matter
regulated by this section may submit to the County Manager written comments
including request for appropriate relief.
   (E)   Any person still aggrieved after the County Manager has heard the
person’s plea may appeal to the County Board of Commissioners by requesting the
Clerk to the Board to place him/her on the next agenda for a regularly
scheduled Board of Commissioner’s meeting. Any person still aggrieved may then
appeal to the court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-20-98) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to criminal prosecution pursuant to G.S. § 14-4, and any such person
found guilty of such violation shall be guilty of misdemeanor and subject to a
fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days pursuant
to that same statute.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
be subject to the imposition by citation of civil penalty for each such
violation in the amount of $500 which shall be paid in full within 72 hours of
the service of the citation in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
further be subject to the county enforcing the provisions of this chapter by
applying to a court of competent jurisdiction in the general court of justice
for equitable relief including, but not limited to, mandatory or prohibitory
injunctions and/or orders of abatement in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
   (D)   Each day a violation shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense for the purpose of the enforcement of this chapter.
   (E)   Failure to make payment and correct the violation within the 72-hour
period will result in an additional fine of $100 per day for a total of 15
days.
(Ord. passed 7-20-98)
CHAPTER 98: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES
Section
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Purpose
   
98.03   Authority
   
98.04   Definitions
   
98.05   Controlling and eliminating hazardous materials emergencies
   
98.06   Authority to enter public or private property
   
98.07   Responsible financial party
   
98.08   Minimum charges
   
98.09   Payment of charges
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Hazardous Materials Emergencies Chapter
of Ashe County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the health, safety and welfare
of county citizens and to minimize public and private losses as a result of a
hazardous materials incident.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.03 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in G.S. Chapter 166A, the Emergency
Management Act, and G.S. § 153A-121, Delegation and Exercise of the General
Police Power, the Board of Commissioners of Ashe County enacts the following
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN-UP OPERATION. An operation in which hazardous substances are removed,
contained incinerated, neutralized, stabilized, cleared up, or in any other
manner processed or handled, with the ultimate goal of making the site safer
for people or the environment.
   DISCHARGE. Shall mean, but shall not be limited to, any emission, spillage,
leakage, pumping, pouring, emptying, or dumping of oil or other hazardous
substances into waters of the county or into waters outside the territorial
limits of the county which affect lands, waters or uses related thereto within
the territorial limits of the county, or upon land in such proximity to waters
that oil or other hazardous substances is reasonably likely to reach the
waters, but shall not include amounts less than quantities which may be harmful
to the public health or welfare as determined pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.77A;
provided, however, that this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit the
oiling of driveways, roads or streets for reduction of dust or routine
maintenance; provided further, that the use of oil or other hazardous
substances, oil-based products, or chemicals on the land or waters by any
state, county, or municipal government agency in any program of mosquito or
other pest control, or their use by any person in accepted agricultural,
horticultural, or forestry practices, or in connection with aquatic weed
control or structural pest and rodent control, in a manner approved by the
state, county, or local agency charged with authority over such uses, shall not
constitute a discharge; provided, further, that the use of a pesticide
regulated by the North Carolina Pesticide Board in a manner consistent with the
labeling required by the North Carolina Pesticide Law shall not constitute a
DISCHARGE for purposes of this definition. The word DISCHARGE shall also
include any discharge upon land, whether or not in proximity to waters, which
is intentional, knowing or willful.
   HAVING CONTROL OVER. Any person using, transferring, storing or transporting
a hazardous material or oil immediately prior to release of a hazardous
material onto the land or into the air.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance which constitutes a hazard, when
discharged in any of the waters, and shall specifically include carriers and
bailees of oil or other hazardous material.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL EMERGENCY. Any uncontrolled release or discharge of a
hazardous substance that endangers the health or safety of persons or the
environment and requires outside assistance by a local fire department or
hazmat team to control and contain.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL RESPONSE. The sending of Emergency Services or Fire
Department personnel and equipment to abate hazardous materials incidents which
endanger the health or safety of persons or environment.
   OIL. Any kind of oil in any form, including but specifically not limited to
petroleum, crude oil, diesel oil, fuel oil, gasoline, lubrication oil, oil
refuse, oil products or by-products, and all other liquid hydro- carbons
regardless of specific gravity, whether singly or in combination with other
substances.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, institution,
corporation, local government or governmental agency.
   REGIONAL RESPONSE TEAM. A hazmat team under contract with the state to
provide response to hazardous materials emergencies within a specified region.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.05 CONTROLLING AND ELIMINATING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the County Emergency Management
Coordinator to control and eliminate hazardous materials (to include hazardous
waste) emergencies with the assistance of local volunteer fire departments and
any outside agencies deemed necessary by the Coordinator. Hazardous materials
emergencies include, but are not limited to, spills, accidents, and the like.
The Emergency Management Coordinator or his/her designee shall have the
authority to summarily remove, abate, or remedy hazardous material emergencies
within the jurisdiction of the county that are a threat to the public health or
safety. For petroleum-based spills of 25 gallons or less, to which a local fire
department has been dispatched, the local Fire Chief shall have the authority
to summarily remove, abate or remedy the spill. The Emergency Management
Coordinator or his/her designee and the local Fire Chief, shall determine the
type, amount and quantity of equipment and personnel required to adequately
abate, and remedy all hazardous materials or oil which are discharged into the
environment. The expense of this action shall be borne by the party responsible
for the incident.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.06 AUTHORITY TO ENTER PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The county, through the Emergency Management Coordinator or his/her
designee, is empowered to conduct any inspections and investigations as shall
be reasonably necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, to determine the person or persons responsible for violation of this
chapter, to determine the nature and location of any oil or other hazardous
substances discharged to the land or waters of the county, and, to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. The Emergency Management Coordinator or his/her
designee and any other agencies/personnel deemed necessary by the Coordinator
shall have the authority to enter public or private property, with or without
the owner’s consent, for the purpose of inspection or investigation or in order
to conduct any project or activity to contain, collect, disperse or remove oil
or other hazardous substances discharges, or to perform any restoration
necessitated by an oil or other hazardous substances discharge. Neither the
county nor its agencies, employees, agents or contractors shall be liable for
trespass or damages arising out of the conduct of any inspection,
investigation, project or activity.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Coordinator or his/her designee and the local
Fire Chief shall determine the type, amount and quantity of equipment and
personnel required to adequately abate, and remedy all hazardous materials or
oil which are discharged into the environment. The expense of this action shall
be borne by the party responsible for the incident.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.07 RESPONSIBLE FINANCIAL PARTY.
   Any person who discharges, causes to be discharged or permits to be
discharged, regardless of the fault of the person having control over the oil
or hazardous material, and regardless of whether the discharge was the result
of intentional or negligent conduct, accident or other cause, any oil or
hazardous materials that creates an oil or hazardous materials emergency, shall
be held financially liable for the response, abatement, disposal and remedial
costs incurred by local Emergency Services Agencies during the emergency. The
person having control over hazardous materials shall assist Emergency Services
Agencies in control or abatement, removal and remedial measures associated with
the oil or hazardous material emergency. Assistance shall consist of any or all
of the following:
   (A)   Shall comply with the direction of the Emergency Management
Coordinator or his/her designee.
   (B)   Shall supply emergency response plan information for the site.
   (C)   Shall supply emergency response equipment, personnel and materials on
site.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.08 MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   The minimum charges for oil or hazardous materials emergency response
on behalf of the County Emergency Services Agencies shall be based upon a
schedule to be approved from time to time by the Board of Commissioners. The
current schedule is as follows:
      (1)   Primary emergency response.
 
Aerial Ladder Truck        $350/hr
Emergency Response Vehicle $250/hr
Manpower (specialized)     $25/mhr
Extinguishment             Normal recharge fees
      (2)   Specialized equipment/personal safety. Protection (activities that
require special protective equipment). Current reference as to EPA/OSHA
protection levels based on EPA Protective Ensembles, which may change from time
to time.
 
Level A/III $200/mhr or a fraction thereof
Level B/II  $150/mhr or a fraction thereof
Level C/I   $100/mhr or a fraction thereof
Level D     $50/mhr or a fraction thereof
      (3)   Emergency clean-up / containment response.
 
Manpower           Same as in division (A)(2)
Dry absorbents     Normal resupply fee
Wet absorbents     Normal resupply fee
Special absorbents Normal resupply fee
 
      (4)   Contaminated equipment. The party responsible for the spill/
incident shall also be financially responsible for replacement of any routine
or specialized equipment that becomes contaminated during response,
containment, abatement and recovery efforts.
      (5)   Reimbursement rates for Regional Response Team are set by the team.
      (6)   Reimbursement for paid personnel shall be at 1½ times the hourly
rate.
      (7)   Any equipment that is used but not listed (trucks, backhoe, and the
like) will be reimbursed at hourly rate specified by hired contractor.
   (B)   These are minimum charges. If actual costs exceed these minimums, the
responsible party shall be liable for any additional cost. In the event the
schedule of minimum charges set forth amount to less than the actual cost for
the oil or hazardous materials emergency response, then the actual cost to the
response shall be the charge.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
§ 98.09 PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   A statement of charges assessed by the responding agencies and/or the
county for oil or hazardous materials emergency response shall be mailed to the
responsible party and/or their insurance company, and shall be due and payable
within 30 days of the date of assessment. If the responsible party contests
charge, he shall have ten days from receipt of the assessment to give notice of
appeal, in writing, to the County Administration Office. A hearing shall be
held and a written decision made by the County Manager within 15 days
thereafter. If the responsible party is not satisfied with the decision of the
County Manager, the matter will be placed on the agenda for the next regular
meeting of the Board of Com- missioners for further consideration. A final
decision shall be made within 30 days thereafter.
   (B)   Any unpaid charge shall bear interest from the due date at the highest
rate permitted by law. Further, if the owner of the real property upon which
the abatement of the emergency took place is determined in any report to be
responsible for the discharge of oil or hazardous material therein, then, and
in that event; any charge not paid within 30 days from the date or assessment
shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the abatement took place, and
shall be collected as unpaid taxes pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 153A-
140. The county shall charge for the removal, abatement, or remedy of hazardous
material emergencies in amounts adequate to reimburse the county and local
emergency services agencies for actual costs incurred by the county for
removal, abatement, or remedy.
   (C)   Charges shall be adopted and amended from time to time by action of
the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 8-21-00)
CHAPTER 99: SOLICITATION AND BEGGING
Section
   
99.01   Intent
   
99.02   Registration and ID cards
   
99.03   Regulation of solicitation, begging activity
   
99.04   False or misleading solicitation
 
   
99.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Itinerant merchants, see
Ch. 111
§ 99.01 INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to require the registration and permitting of
peddlers, beggars and charitable solicitors, who attempt to solicit sales or
contributions for gain and/or the purported benefit of charities from occupants
of vehicles and pedestrians on certain streets and highways within the county,
and to thereby regulate and ensure the safety of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic flow and to promote roadway and sidewalk safety.
(Ord. passed 7-7-03)
§ 99.02 REGISTRATION AND ID CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall solicit sales or contributions, beg or solicit alms
for gain or a stated charitable purpose without first registering and obtaining
a permit/privilege license issued by the County Manager.
   (B)   In the application for the permit the following shall be furnished.
The full name and address and phone number of the applicant and/or his agent;
the time and location where solicitation is to take place; proof of credentials
and proof of financial stability; the percentage of the solicitation that will
be used for administrative expense and, if deemed necessary for the protection
of the public, the posting of a bond equal to 15% of the projected revenues
from solicitation.
   (C)   The fee for such permit shall be $250.
   (D)   Any person who makes a false or misleading statement while applying
for a permit/privilege license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person, professional fundraising counsel or professional
solicitor, prior to engaging in charitable solicitation in this county; if the
charitable solicitation is not exempted by the terms of G.S. § 131F-3, shall
first register with the County Manager and provide the County Manager with a
copy of the State Annual Solicitation License from the Department of Human
Resources of the state. At the time of registration an identification card or
other authorization provided by the organization to individual solicitors shall
be filed with the County Manager, and no charitable solicitation shall be
undertaken except when the solicitor first identifies himself or herself by
presenting the identification card or other authorization.
(Ord. passed 7-7-03)
§ 99.03 REGULATION OF SOLICITATION, BEGGING ACTIVITY.
   (A)   All signs displayed and used in the solicitation process shall clearly
identify the person or entity soliciting and shall state clearly and concisely
what specific charities, institutions, persons or groups of persons shall
benefit from any donations made.
   (B)   No solicitation, begging or solicitation of alms, etc., shall be
conducted in any manner so as to substantially interfere or obstruct vehicular
or pedestrian traffic.
   (C)   Any person who solicits or begs in any of the following manners is
guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   By coming within five feet of the person being solicited, unless
that person has clearly indicated that he or she wants to make a donation;
      (2)   By blocking the path of the person being solicited along a sidewalk
or street;
      (3)   By following the person being solicited after they have walked
away;
      (4)   By using profane or abusive language, either during the
solicitation or following a refusal;
      (5)   By soliciting in a group of two or more people; or
      (6)   By any statement gesture or other form of communication by which a
reasonable person in the situation of the person solicited would perceive to be
a threat.
(Ord. passed 7-7-03)
§ 99.04 FALSE OR MISLEADING SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly makes any false or misleading representation
in the course of soliciting a donation or begging is guilty of a misdemeanor.
False or misleading representations include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a specific need, when
the solicitor already has sufficient funds to meet that need and does not
disclose that fact;
      (2)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a need which does not
exist;
      (3)   Stating the solicitor is from out of town and stranded, when that
is not true;
      (4)   Wearing a military uniform or other indication of military service
and stating that the solicitor is from out of town and stranded when that is
not true;
      (5)   Wearing or displaying an indication of physical or mental
disability, when the solicitor does not suffer the disability indicated;
      (6)   Use of any makeup or device to simulate any deformity; or
      (7)   Stating that the solicitor is homeless, when he or she is not.
   (B)    Any person who solicits a donation stating that the funds are needed
for a specific purpose and then spends the funds received for a different
purpose is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)    This section establishes a single offense. Evidence, which
establishes that the defendant violated the section, is sufficient for
conviction and need not establish which division was violated.
(Ord. passed 7-7-03)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and may be enforced by
any one or more of the remedies authorized by the provisions of G.S. §§ 14-4 or
153A-123.
(Ord. passed 7-7-03)
CHAPTER 100: PUBLIC SKATE PARK FACILITIES
Section
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Designation; use regulations
   
100.03   Required riding equipment
   
100.04   Hazardous recreational activity
   
100.05   Sign posting
   
100.06   Administration
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BMX BIKE. (AN ACRONYM FOR BICYCLE MOTOCROSS).
      (1)   A form of cycling on specially designed bicycles which usually have
16- to 24-inch wheels (the norm being the 20-inch wheel).
      (2)   The sport includes racing on earthen tracks, known as BMX racing,
as well as the performance of tricks on the bikes, called Freestyle BMX.
   IN-LINE SKATE (ALSO KNOWN AS ROLLER BLADES). A footwear containing three or
more axles mounted in a straight line extending generally from or behind the
heel of the footwear to or in front of the toe of the footwear with a single
wheel attached to each axle.
   ROLLER SKATE. Any footwear or device which may be attached to the foot or
footwear to which wheels are attached and the wheels may be used by the wearer
in moving.
   SKATEBOARD. A board-like object, which has two axles, attached to the bottom
of the board-like object with one or two wheels attached to each axle and the
user rides or stands upon the board-like object and may include a handlebar.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12)
§ 100.02 DESIGNATION; USE REGULATIONS.
   The county may designate, maintain, and/or operate a skate park facility,
which shall be open to the public for the purpose of riding skateboards, in-
line skates, roller skates and/or BMX type bikes. Any designated public skate
park may or may not be supervised and shall be for use by persons using
skateboards, in-line skates, and/or BMX type bikes only. All other uses are
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12) Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.03 REQUIRED RIDING EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for a person to ride or use a skateboard, in-line skates,
roller skates, or a BMX bike, in a designated public skate park facility unless
the person is wearing a helmet, elbow pads, and knee pads.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12) Penalty, see § 100.99
§ 100.04 HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY.
   Skateboarding, in-line skating, roller skating, and/or BMX biking at a
designated public skate park facility represents a hazardous recreational
activity for participants and the county will not be liable for any injuries
incurred by persons participating in the hazardous recreational activity at a
designated public skate park facility owned and/or operated by the county.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12)
§ 100.05 SIGN POSTING.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Department shall cause a sign or signs to be
posted at designated public skate park facilities providing reasonable notice
of the requirements of §
100.06 and stating that any person failing to comply will be guilty of an
infraction and subject to citation.
   (B)   The signs shall at least afford reasonable notice of the following:
      (1)   Park hours of operation;
      (2)   Skateboarding, roller skating, in-line skating, and BMX biking are
hazardous activities. Skate and bike at own risk;
      (3)   Skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates and BMX bikes only; and
      (4)   Failure to wear helmets, kneepads, and elbow pads will subject
persons to citation under §
100.99 and G.S. § 99E-23(b).
(Ord. passed 10-1-12)
§ 100.06 ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Parks and
Recreation Director and his or her authorized representatives, except where
expressly provided otherwise. All other officers and employees of the county
shall assist and cooperate in the administrations and enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of the provisions of this chapter will result in a citation under
this chapter as authorized by G.S. § 99E-23 (b)(2) and may constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine. The county reserves the right to revoke the
use of the skate park to individuals who violate the rules and regulations of
the skate park.
(Ord. passed 10-1-12)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
         
111.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS
         
112.   AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS AND MINIMUM STANDARD REQUIREMENTS FOR
AIRPORT SERVICE PROVIDERS
CHAPTER 110: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Franchise required
   
110.04   Application fee
   
110.05   Written acceptance
   
110.06   Term of franchise
   
110.07   Termination of franchise
   
110.08   Transfer
   
110.09   Authority granted by franchise
   
110.10   Limitations of franchise
   
110.11   Additional county rights
   
110.12   Service area
   
110.13   Time for providing service
   
110.14   Public, educational and governmental access
   
110.15   Construction standards
   
110.16   Operational standards
   
110.17   Rights of individuals
   
110.18   Liability and insurance
   
110.19   Reports
   
110.20   Franchise renewal
   
110.21   Notice
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of this chapter to provide for and specify the means to
attain the best possible public interest and purpose regarding cable TV
operations. Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated
with cable communications, the county finds the public convenience, safety and
general welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers which
should be vested in the county or such persons as the county may designate. For
these purposes, the following goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
   (A)   Cable television services should be made available to the maximum
number of residents possible, financial restrictions understood.
   (B)   The system should be improved and upgraded during the franchise term
so that the new facilities necessary for the operation of this system shall be
integrated to the maximum extent possible with existing facilities.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Commissioners of Ashe County.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. The provision of improved television reception and
communications for compensation, or as otherwise provided by this chapter, and
distributing the same over the cable television system.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. A facility consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designated to provide cable service to multiple subscribers
within a community, not including a facility or combination of facilities that
serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more television
broadcast stations; or a facility or combination of facilities that serves only
subscribers in one or more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership,
control or management, unless such facility or facilities use any public right-
of-way.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum (or any other
means of transmission, including but not limited to optical fibers, which is
capable of carrying the equivalent signal or signals), and includes uses of all
or any portion of such band of frequencies.
   COMMERCIAL SUBSCRIBER. All subscribers not defined as residential.
   COMMUNITY CHANNEL. Channel capacity designated for public, educational, or
governmental use.
   COUNTY. The County of Ashe and all unincorporated areas, not including the
boundaries of Jefferson, West Jefferson, and Lansing.
   FCC. Federal Communications Commission.
   FEDERAL CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 USC 521
et seq.
   FRANCHISE. The nonexclusive rights granted pursuant to this chapter to
construct, operate, and maintain a cable communications system along the public
ways within the unincorporated areas of Ashe County.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A contract entered into between the county and the
grantee pursuant to this chapter, containing the specific provisions of the
franchise granted.
   GRANTEE. The person, firm, or corporation to whom a franchise is granted by
the Board under this chapter, and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee
of said person, firm, or corporation.
   NON-EXCLUSIVE. To make provisions for others, to be shared or divided.
   OFFICE. A base of operations, located within the county borders, that has
the sole function of serving cable customers, sufficiently staffed to
accommodate daily traffic that may frequent it during normal working hours, and
only relying on automated answering equipment for a backup and during off
hours.
   SERVICE AREA. The geographical area to be served and documented by the
grantee.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity lawfully receiving any portion of the cable
television service of a grantee pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-98)
§ 110.03 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain a
cable television system in the unincorporated areas of the county unless such
person or the person for whom such action is being taken shall have first
obtained and shall currently hold a valid franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person to provide cable television
service in the unincorporated areas of the county unless such person shall have
first obtained and shall currently hold a valid franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FEE.
   Applicants for a franchise hereunder shall pay an application fee to the
county of $300 which sum shall be due and payable to the county upon submission
to the county of an application for a franchise. Said fee shall be non-
refundable.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.05 WRITTEN ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the Board has taken action to approve the
granting of a franchise, the grantee shall file with the County Manager a
written acceptance acknowledged before a notary public of the conditions
required for the franchise. Such acceptance shall acknowledge that the grantee
agrees to be bound by and to comply with the provisions of this chapter. If
such acceptance is not filed within said time, then the franchise so awarded
shall be deemed void and of no further force and effect and the offer of
franchise so awarded to grantee shall stand revoked.
   (B)   The effective date of the franchise shall be determined by the Board
after the letter of acceptance is received. In all cases, the effective date
shall not commence before approval by the Board at two regular meetings and an
ordinance adopted approving such franchise.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.06 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   The duration of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall not be
more than 15 years from the effective date.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.07 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county reserves the right to terminate, at any time, any franchise
granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated therewith in
the event that:
      (1)   Grantee has not complied in some material respect with any
provision of this chapter, the franchise agreement, or of any supplemental
written agreement entered into by and between the county and the grantee, or
      (2)   Grantee has made a false statement in the application for the
franchise, knowing it to be false, or grantee attempts to or does practice any
fraud or deceit in its conduct or relations under the franchise with the
county, or
      (3)   Grantee is not providing subscribers with adequate service
consistent with the terms of any franchise granted hereunder, or
      (4)   Grantee becomes insolvent, enters into receivership or liquidation,
files for bankruptcy or for composition or creditors, is unable to pay his
debts as they mature, unless the grantee is in due process of contesting such
debts, or
      (5)   Grantee fails to comply with any final federal or state judgement
arising directly from the exercise of grantee's rights under this franchise, or
      (6)   Grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force the insurance
policies required by this chapter, or
      (7)   Grantee assigns, sells or transfers its title or interest in its
franchise without the consent of the Board, or
      (8)   Grantee is convicted of producing, originating, amplifying,
transmitting or distributing over its cable television system any matter which
is obscene, in violation of federal or state law. Unless otherwise defined by
the applicable federal or state law, for the purposes of this chapter, obscene
matter shall mean a visual or verbal depiction, display, representation,
dissemination or description of any programming:
         (a)   Which the average person, applying contemporary community
standards in the county would find, when considered as a whole, appeals to the
prurient interest; and
         (b)   Which depicts patently offensive representations of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, masturbation, excretory
functions, or exhibition of the genitals or genital area, masochism or sadism,
sexual acts with a child or animal, and which when considered as a whole, and
in the context in which it is used, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, educational or scientific value.
   (B)   In the event the county shall decide to terminate for cause a
franchise granted hereunder, it shall give the grantee a minimum of 60 days
written notice of its intention to terminate and stipulate the cause. If during
said period, the cause shall be cured to the satisfaction of the county, the
county shall declare the notice to be null and void. In any event, before a
franchise may be terminated, the grantee must be provided with an opportunity
to be heard before the Board in accordance with due process procedures. If a
grantee's franchise is terminated, the decision shall be subject to judicial
review as provided by law.
   (C)   A grantee shall not be declared in default or be subject to any
sanction under any provision of this chapter in any case where the action
justifying such sanction is without the grantee's knowledge or authorization or
outside its control.
   (D)   In the event that the franchise held by a grantee to construct,
operate, or maintain a cable television system expires or is lawfully
terminated by the Board, pursuant to this chapter, the Board may advertise and
seek another grantee to operate the system. If the franchise is granted to
another person, the terminated grantee may sell the entire cable television
system to the new grantee at a price to be determined by three competent,
independent appraisers, one each appointed by the terminated grantee, the new
grantee, and the Board. The appraisers so appointed shall use the then-best
methods of appraising to determine this value. The cost of the appraisers shall
be shared equally by the terminated grantee and the new grantee. The terminated
grantee shall execute such deeds, bills of sale and other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate this sale. The terminated grantee shall fully cooperate
with these appraisers.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.08 TRANSFER.
   (A)   The grantee shall not transfer this ordinance and the non-exclusive
franchise granted herein by the grantor to a third party without the prior
approval of the grantor, which shall review such assignment pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Not
withstanding the above, no approval shall be required for an assignment of this
ordinance and the non- exclusive franchise to a company owned or controlled by,
under common ownership, management and/or control with the grantee or which
owns or controls the grantee.
   (B)   The transferee shall agree in writing to abide by all terms of this
chapter and franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-98)
§ 110.09 AUTHORITY GRANTED BY FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The grantee of any franchise granted pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall, subject to the conditions and restrictions set out in this
chapter, be authorized to construct or have constructed, operate, and maintain
a cable television system, and to engage in the business of providing a cable
television service in the area of the county so applied for in the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any telephone, telegraph, or power company or
any other public utility company or person to lease or otherwise make available
to any other person, any poles, lines, facilities, equipment, or other property
for use in connection with the operation of a cable television system or
service, unless such other person holds a valid franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
   (C)   The authority granted to a grantee pursuant to this chapter is not and
shall not be deemed to be an exclusive right or permission. The county
expressly reserves the right to grant identical non-exclusive franchises for a
cable television system to other persons for the entire franchise area at any
time. No such other franchise so granted shall interfere with the
responsibilities of the other grantee.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchise is subject to the limitation that the grantee shall at
all times during the life of the franchise be subject to all lawful exercise of
the police power of the county and other duly authorized regulatory state and
federal bodies and shall comply with any and all ordinances which the county
has adopted or shall adopt applying to the public generally, and to other
grantees, and shall be subject to all laws of the State of North Carolina and
the United States.
   (B)   Failure of the county to enforce any provisions of this chapter
constitutes no waiver of any such provisions by the county.
   (C)   In the event of disturbance of any private property by the grantee,
the grantee shall at its own expense, replace, repair, or restore such private
property in an reasonably good a condition as before the disturbance took
place.
   (D)   The grantee shall, upon reasonable notice, temporarily alter all
facilities to accommodate a holder of a valid moving permit issued by the
county to re-locate a building. Said grantee may charge the moving permit
holder for the costs of altering its facilities, and may ask for said charge in
advance. Reasonable notice shall mean prior notice received 48 hours before the
moving is to begin.
   (E)   If, at any time, in case of fire or other disaster, it shall become
necessary in the judgement of the County Manager or fire chief of the
responding department, or other qualified emergency personnel, to cut or remove
any of the wires, cable, amplifiers, appliances, or appurtenances thereto of
the grantee, such cutting or moving may be done and any repairs rendered
necessary thereby shall be made by the grantee at no expense to the county or
fire department or other emergency service.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.11 ADDITIONAL COUNTY RIGHTS.
   (A)   The county reserves the right in the event of an emergency or
disaster, to require the grantee to make available to the County Manager or his
appointee, at his request, grantee's audio override and community channel at no
cost. The audio of all channels simultaneously, by a dedicated telephone number
at the expense of the grantee shall be provided upon request.
   (B)   The county reserves the right during the life of any franchise granted
to inspect at all reasonable hours the grantee's plans, contracts and
engineering, customer, and service records relating to the property and the
operations of the grantee.
   (C)   At any time during the franchise term, and prior to renewal and or
transfer of the franchise, the county reserves the right to hold a public
hearing for the expressed purpose of reviewing the general and specific
performance of the grantee with regard to all franchise provisions and to
subscriber satisfaction.
   (D)   The county reserves all rights not specifically granted herein, and
the enumerating of the rights herein shall not be construed to be a limitation
of any right or power the county may otherwise have.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.12 SERVICE AREA.
   The service area of the grantee shall be designated in the franchise
application. Said designation shall consist of maps, road numbers, landmarks,
or any other method that will depict the entire area the franchise applies to.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.13 TIME FOR PROVIDING SERVICE.
   For new franchises, service shall commence within 12 months after franchise
approval or the franchise shall be null and void.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.14 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   (A)   The grantee shall provide one access channel for the transmission of
access broadcast programs by residents of the county and recognized community
organizations, at no charge.
   (B)   The grantee shall, upon request, provide and furnish without charge to
all public educational institutions and governmental buildings within the
service area of the franchise one service outlet. Said institutions shall
receive without charge the grantee's cable television service. Other
institutions to receive one free outlet are group homes, rest homes, nursing
homes, hospitals, fire departments, library, rescue squads, and public senior
centers.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.15 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a
manner consistent with all laws, ordinances, construction standards,
governmental requirements and the construction and operational standards
contained in this chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (B)   All installation and maintenance of electronic equipment shall be of a
permanent nature, durable and installed in accordance with the applicable
sections of the current edition of the national electric safety code, the
national electrical code of the national bureau of fire underwriters, and all
state and local codes where applicable.
   (C)   Towers shall be designed for the property loading zone as specified in
electronics industry association's R.S.-222C specifications.
   (D)   Towers shall be painted, lighted, erected and maintained in accordance
with all applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation
Administration, the state aeronautics board, and all other applicable local or
state regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
Cross-reference:
   Communications towers, see
Ch. 158
§ 110.16 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain all parts of the system in good condition
throughout the entire franchise period.
   (B)   At any time after commencement of service to subscribers, the county
may require additional tests, full or partial repeat tests, involving a
specific subscriber's terminal. Requests for such additional tests will be made
on the basis of complaints received or other evidence indicating an unresolved
controversy or significant noncompliance and such tests will be limited to the
particular matter in controversy.
   (C)   The grantee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions insofar as possible, shall be preceded by notice and shall occur
during periods of minimum system use.
   (D)   Service repair response time to a subscriber shall not exceed 24 hours
except on weekends and holidays or in circumstances beyond the reasonable
control of the grantee.
   (E)   Trained technicians shall respond on a 24-hour day seven days per week
whenever five or more verifiable subscriber complaints of outage are received.
   (F)   During the term of this franchise, and any renewal thereof, the
grantee shall maintain within the county a local business office for the
purpose of receiving and resolving all complaints regarding the quality of
service. The local office shall be open to the public during regular business
hours, Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays, and the grantee shall
have a locally published telephone number, capable of answering calls twenty-
four (24) hours per day. The office shall rely on automated answering equipment
only for a backup and during off hours.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-98) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users, or other users, or any citizen
on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex or applicable
federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and all executive and
administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination which are hereby
incorporated and made part of this chapter.
   (B)   At the time of entering into an agreement to provide any cable
television service to a subscriber, and at least once a year thereafter, the
grantee shall provide notice in the form of a separate written statement to
each subscriber clearly and conspicuously informing the subscriber of:
      (1)   The nature of personally identifiable information collected or to
be collected with respect to the subscriber and the nature of the use of such
information;
      (2)   The nature, frequency, and purpose of any disclosure which may be
made of such informa- tion, including an identification of the types of persons
to whom the disclosure is made;
      (3)   The period during which such information might be maintained by the
grantee; and
      (4)   The times and places at which the subscriber may have access to
such information.
   (C)   Each subscriber shall be provided access to all personally
identifiable information regarding such subscriber that grantee collects and
maintains and such subscriber shall be provided the opportunity to correct any
error in such information.
   (D)   Unless necessary to render or conduct a legitimate business activity,
the grantee shall not disclose personally identifiable information concerning
any subscriber unless the grantee has provided the subscriber with the
opportunity to prohibit or limit such disclosure.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.18 LIABILITY AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at his sole cost and expense, fully indemnify,
defend and save harmless the county, its officers, boards, commissions, and
employees against any and all actions, liability, judgements, executions,
claims or demands whatsoever by others, including, but not limited to,
copyright infringement and all other damages arising out of the installation or
operation or maintenance of the cable television system authorized herein,
whether or not any act of omission complained of is authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter and any franchise granted hereunder, and against all
liabilities to others arising out of such construction, operation and
maintenance, including, but not limited to, any liability for damages by reason
of, or arising out of, any failure by grantee to secure consents from the
owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be transmitted or
distributed by the grantee, and against any loss, cost, expense, and damages
resulting therefrom, including reasonable attorney fees, arising out of the
grantee's exercise or enjoyment of this franchise, irrespective of the amount
of comprehensive liability policy required hereunder.
   (B)   At the time of and concurrently with the filing of written acceptance,
the grantee shall file with the County Manager certificates of insurance for
the following:
      (1)   A general comprehensive public liability insurance policy,
indemnifying, defending and saving harmless the county, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents or employees from any and all claims by any person
whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a person or persons occasioned
by the operations of the grantee under the franchise granted hereunder with a
minimum of liability of $1,000,000 per personal injury or death of any person
and $1,000,000 for personal injury or death of any two or more persons in any
one occurrence. Renewal certificates of such insurance shall be promptly
forwarded to the County Manager as such renewals are made, and such insurance
shall be constantly kept in force and effect during the term of this franchise
or any renewal thereof. The grantee and/or the insurance carrier shall file
with the County Manager a written notice of any material alteration or
cancellation of any insurance coverage at least 30 days prior to the effective
date of such alteration or cancellation.
      (2)   Property damage insurance indemnifying, defending, and saving
harmless the county, its officers, boards, commissions, agents, and employees
from and against all claims by any person whatsoever for property damage
occasioned by the operation of a grantee under the franchise granted hereunder
or alleged to have been so caused with a minimum liability of $1,000,000 for
property damage to any one person and $1,000,000 for property damage to two or
more persons in any one occurrence.
      (3)   Such insurance as provided for in this section shall be provided at
the grantee's sole cost and expense and be kept in full force and effect by the
grantee during the existence of the franchise and until after the removal of
all fixtures incident to the maintenance and operation of the cable television
system as defined in the franchise.
   (C)   All of the foregoing insurance contracts shall be issued and
maintained by companies authorized to do business in the State of North
Carolina and they shall require 30 days written notice of any cancellation or
reduction in coverage to both the county and the grantee herein.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.19 REPORTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall file annually with the Board not later than four
months after the end of its fiscal year during which it accepted a franchise
hereunder and within four months after the end of each subsequent fiscal year,
a copy of its report to its stockholders (if it prepares such a report), an
annual summary fiscal year report showing gross revenues received by the
grantee from its operations within the county during its preceding fiscal year
and a letter containing audited gross revenues data compiled by a CPA showing
the gross revenues of its operations within the county during the preceding
fiscal year.
   (B)   At the same time of filing the above reports, the grantee shall file a
current system map, depicting its actual service area. A current list of all
grantee's officers and directors including business addresses and business
telephone numbers. The names, addresses and both business and residential phone
numbers of the cable television system manager and chief engineer.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.20 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Upon completion of the term of any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter, the county may grant or deny renewal of the franchise of the grantee
in accordance with the procedures for franchise renewals as established by the
Federal Cable Act and state and federal law.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.21 NOTICE.
   Whenever under the terms of the franchise either party shall be required or
permitted to give notice to the other, such notice shall be in writing and if
to be served in the county, it shall be delivered either by first class U.S.
mail or by handing such notice to the County Manager at the county
administration offices, and if to grantee, then by delivering by first class
U.S. mail or by handing such notice to such officer at such address as grantee
shall from time to time direct. The original names and address of the officer
on behalf of grantee shall be included in grantee's acceptance of the
franchise.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the violation of any of the following provisions of this chapter,
the county shall notify the grantee in writing of the violation and the grantee
shall be allowed not more than 30 days to correct such violation, or be subject
to the penalties provided by G.S. § 14-4. Such penalties shall be payable in
cash, cashiers check, or money order.
      (1)   For failure to adhere to system construction milestones and other
construction, reconstruction or upgrade commitments in accordance with the
franchise agreement, unless the Board specifically approves the modification
due to the occurrence of conditions beyond grantee's control, grantee shall pay
a fine for each day, or part thereof, that the time schedule is not met.
      (2)   For failure to provide data, documents, reports, or information
required by this chapter to the county, grantee shall pay a fine for each day,
or part thereof that such violation occurs.
      (3)   For failure to test, analyze and report on the performance of the
system following a request by the county, grantee shall pay a fine for each
day, or part thereof, that the noncompliance continues.
      (4)   For failure to provide the community channel and equipment as
required in this chapter or in the franchise agreement, the grantee shall pay a
fine for each day, or part thereof, that such noncompliance continues.
      (5)   For failure to provide in a continuing manner the services required
herein, or in the franchise agreement, the grantee shall pay a fine for each
day, or part thereof, that each noncompliance continues.
   (B)   No penalty shall be assessed if the violation occurs without fault of
the grantee or occurs as a result of circumstances beyond its control. The
grantee shall not be excused by mere economic hardship nor by misfeasance or
malfeasance of its directors, officers, or employees.
(Ord. passed 2-5-90)
CHAPTER 111: ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   Period of license, expiration date, penalties
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOODS, WARES AND MERCHANDISE. Any and all goods, wares and merchandise
except fruits and other farm products.
   ITINERANT SALESMAN OR MERCHANT. Any person, firm, corporation, or
unincorporated association offering for sale goods, wares or merchandise, other
than fruits and farms products, who conducts said business within the county
for less than six consecutive months, except in case of discontinuance for one
of the reasons as set forth in G.S. § 105-53.
(Ord. passed 3-7-83)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every itinerant salesman or merchant, as defined in this chapter, who shall
expose for sale, either on the street or in a building occupied, in whole or in
part, for that purpose, any goods, wares or merchandise, not being a regular
merchant in the county, shall, subject to the exceptions and exemptions as set
forth in G.S. § 105-53, apply for in advance and procure a county license from
the County Tax Collector, and shall pay for such license a tax of $100.
(Ord. passed 3-7-83)
§ 111.03 PERIOD OF LICENSE, EXPIRATION DATE, PENALTIES.
   The time period covered by the license, the expiration date for the license,
and the remedies and penalties for failure to obtain and pay for the license
are as set out in G.S. § 105-33.
(Ord. passed 3-7-83)
CHAPTER 112: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS AND MINIMUM STANDARD REQUIREMENTS
FOR AIRPORT SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
   
112.01   Adoption by reference
§ 112.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Ashe County Airport GEV Airport Rules and Regulations and Minimum
Standard Requirements for Airport Service Providers are hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 2-21-11)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved for future legislation]
 TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
152.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
         
153.   PLANNING
         
154.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
         
155.   WATERSHED PROTECTION
         
156.   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
         
157.   RACETRACKS AND MOTORSPORT EVENTS
         
158.   COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
         
159.   RESERVED
         
160.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
161.   COOPERATIVE EXTENSION ENFORCES FARMLAND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
         
162.   ASHE COUNTY AIRPORT (KGEV)
         
163.   WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
         
164.   SIGN CONTROL
         
165.   DELETED ELECTRONIC GAMING, ILLEGAL IN NC
         
166.   HIGH IMPACT LAND USE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Adoption of regulatory codes by reference
   
150.03   Amendments
   
150.04   Compliance with codes
   
150.05   Copies of codes filed with clerk
   
150.06   Liability for damages
   
150.07   Building or structure located on property adjacent to National Park
Service property
   
150.08   Conflicting provisions
Permits and Fees
   
150.20   Permits required
   
150.21   Application for permit
   
150.22   Plans and specifications
   
150.23   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.24   Issuance of permit
   
150.25   Revocation of permits
   
150.26   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
150.27   Changes in work
   
150.28   Permit fees
   
150.29   Permit fees
   
150.30   Noncompliance
Condemnation of Unsafe Buildings
   
150.40   Adoption of administration and enforcement requirements
   
150.41   Duty of Building Inspector
   
150.42   Removing notice from condemned building
   
150.43   Duty of owner; procedure for notice and hearing
   
150.44   Order to take corrective action
   
150.45   Appeal
   
150.46   Failure to comply with order
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.55   Department of Inspection
   
150.56   Inspection procedure
   
150.57   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.58   Powers of inspections officials
   
150.59   Evidence of insurance required of contractors
   
150.60   Violations
   
150.61   Equitable enforcement
Mountain Ridge Protection
   
150.70   Mountain Ridge Protection Law
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein
adopted shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure, including, but not limited
to, mobile homes and manufactured buildings;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof;
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of heating and air conditioning systems and appurtenances thereof;
   (B)   The adoption of this chapter and the codes herein adopted by reference
shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. Chapter 153A, Article
18, Part 1 making the regulatory codes herein adopted applicable to dwellings
and out buildings used in connection therewith.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.02 ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building Code Adopted. The 2009 edition of the North Carolina State
Building Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Building Code of Ashe County.
   (B)   Plumbing Code adopted. The 2009 edition of the North Carolina Plumbing
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Plumbing) as adopted and published by
the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code of Ashe
County.
   (C)   Electrical Code adopted. The 2011 edition of the North Carolina
Electrical Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Electrical), adopting by
reference the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection
Association as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Electrical Code of Ashe County.
   (D)   Residential Building Code. The 2009 edition of the North Carolina
Uniform Residential Building Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building
Inspectors Association, and as published by the North Carolina Building Code
Council is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Residential Building Code of Ashe County for One and Two Family Residential
Buildings.
   (E)   Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and Ventilation. The 2009
edition of the North Carolina Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and
Ventilation Code (North Carolina State Building Code) as adopted and published
by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Heating, Air
Conditioning, Refrigeration, and Ventilation Codes of Ashe County.
   (F)   Mobile Home Code adopted. The 2004 edition of the North Carolina
Mobile Homes Code, (North Carolina State Building Code, Mobile Homes) as
adopted and published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as
the Mobile Homes Code of Ashe County.
   (G)   Energy Code adopted. The 2009 edition of the North Carolina Energy
Code, (North Carolina State Building Code, Energy Code) as adopted and
published by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Energy Code of
Ashe County.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 10-4-99; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein shall be effective in the county at the time such amendments
are filed with the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners as provided in §
150.05.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.04 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter placed, manufactured,
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
demolished, or moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards, and
other pro- visions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Plumbing).
   (C)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Electrical).
   (D)   All heating, air conditioning, refrigeration and ventilation
installations and appurtenances shall be erected, repaired, used and maintained
in accordance with minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the
North Carolina State Building Code, Heating.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.05 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk to
the Board of Commissioners. Such copies shall be the official copies of the
codes and the amendments.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.06 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any materials or equipment for damages to person or property caused
by any defect therein, nor shall the county be held as assuming any such
liability by reason of the inspection authorized herein or the certificate of
approval issued as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.07 BUILDING OR STRUCTURE LOCATED ON PROPERTY ADJACENT TO NATIONAL PARK
SERVICE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No building or structure which is located upon property which is
adjacent to National Park Service property shall be located nearer than 15 feet
to the Park Service boundary.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for structure(s) located upon
property adjacent to National Park Service property, National Park Service
personnel, upon notification by the County Ordinance Administrator, shall
determine the property line and shall establish the required 15 feet setback
within 15 days of the application for a building permit. The County Department
of Inspections shall notify the County Ordinance Administrator of any permits
applied for concerning the construction of structures on property adjacent to
National Park Service property.
   (C)   Appeals may be taken from a decision under this chapter by the County
Ordinance Administrator to the Board of Commissioners by giving written notice
of appeal to the Administrator and to the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners
within ten days following the day a permit is denied. The appeal shall contain
the grounds thereof.
   (D)   On hearing an appeal, the County Board of Commissioners may overrule
the decision of the County Ordinance Administrator where it finds the
Administrator has incorrectly interpreted and applied this chapter. In
addition, the Board may grant exceptions to this chapter in situations where it
finds a hardship exists.
(Ord. passed 4-17-91) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All ordinances of the county or resolutions of the Board of Commissioners in
conflict with this chapter are hereby repealed. Except to the extent that such
resolutions or ordinances are in conflict with this chapter, the same are still
in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
PERMITS AND FEES
§ 150.20 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Sewer provision. Prior to the issuance of any permit pursuant to this
section, the County Health Department approval for use of septic tank is
required where a sewer system cannot be connected to city or county sewer.
   (B)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof, without first securing a
written permit, therefor, from the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Moving of buildings.
      (1)   No building or part of any building shall be moved through or
across any sidewalk, street, alley or highway within the governmental limits
without first obtaining a permit from the Building Official and other local
authorities having jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Building Official may require a written application setting
forth the following information:
         (a)   Type and kind of building to be moved.
         (b)   The original cost of building.
         (c)   The extreme dimensions of the length, height, and width of the
building.
         (d)   Its present location and proposed new location by lot, block,
subdivision and street numbers.
         (e)   The approximate time such building will be upon the streets, and
the contemplated route that will be taken from present to new location.
         (f)   Clearance from other authorities as required, (such as public
utilities, police departments, street department, etc.)
         (g)   Owners of property which might be affected.
      (3)   If in the opinion of the Building Official, the moving of any
building will cause serious injury to persons or property or serious injury to
the streets or other public improvements or the moving of the building will
violate any of the requirements of this code or of the zoning regulations, the
permit shall not be issued and the building shall not be moved over the
streets. All buildings to be moved must meet requirements of this code.
      (4)   Any building being moved for which permit was granted shall not be
allowed to remain in or on the streets for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   The Building Official, as a condition precedent to the issuance of
such permit, may require a bond to be executed by the person desiring such
removal permit, with corporate surety to his satisfaction, or show evidence of
liability insurance insuring the person for such an amount as he shall
prescribe.
   (D)   Demolition of a building or structure. It will be necessary to obtain
a permit from the Department of Inspections before the demolition of a building
or structure.
   (E)   Plumbing permit.  No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, or general repair of any plumbing system without first
securing a written permit therefor from the Inspections Department; provided,
however, no permit shall be required for minor repairs or replacements on the
house side of a trap to an installed system of plumbing if such repairs or
replacements do not disrupt the original water supply or the waste for
ventilating systems.
   (F)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment without first securing a written
permit therefor from the Inspections Department; provided, however, no permit
shall be required for minor repair work such as the connection of portable
devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed;
provided, further, no permit shall be required for the installation,
alteration, or repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances, and
equipment installed by or for an electrical public utility corporation for the
use of such corporation in the generating, transmission, distribution, or
metering of electrical energy, or for the use of such corporation in the
operation of signals or the transmission of intelligence.
   (G)   Heating and air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or
proceed with the installation, extension, alteration, or general repairs
without a permit from the Inspections Department; provided, however, no permit
shall be required for minor repairs or minor burner services. Building,
plumbing, electrical, heating, and air conditioning permits will all be
included on one form, and one fee will cover all permits. If it is necessary to
issue an individual permit, refer to permit fee schedule §
150.29.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this chapter
and shall be made on forms provided by the Department of Inspections. Such
application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure affected or
by his authorized agent or contractor, and in addition to such other
information as may be required by the appropriate inspector to enable him to
determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show the
following:
   (A)   Name, residence, and business address of owner.
   (B)   Name, residence, and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any.
   (C)   Name, and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing board
for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the permit
for which application is made.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.22 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Adequate working drawings or detailed plans and specifications shall
accompany each application for permit and for any other building or structure
where plans and specifications are deemed necessary by the Building Inspector
and in order for him to determine whether the proposed work complies with the
regulatory codes. Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to
indicate the nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and
specifications together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that
the work proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes. Where plans and specifications are required, a
copy of the same shall be kept at the work site until all authorized operations
have been completed and approved by the Inspections Department.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.23 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Where any provisions of the General Statutes of North Carolina or any
ordinance of the county requires that work be done by a licensed specialty
contractor of any kind, no permit for such work shall be issued unless it is to
be performed by such licensed specialty contractor.
   (B)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless such plans and
specifications have been provided.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
Inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes in force at
the time, he shall issue such permit.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.25 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for such revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the Inspectors; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes in force at
the time such permit was issued or for false statements or misrepresentations
made in securing such permit.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.26 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitations six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If, after 12 months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire
without an inspection. No work authorized by any permit which has expired shall
thereafter be performed until a new permit therefor has been secured.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.27 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans and specifications of the permit, except where such
changes or deviations are clearly permissible under the building codes adopted
herein, shall be made until specific written approval of such changes or
deviations have been obtained from the appropriate inspector.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.28 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be charged at the time of approval of the application
and shall be collected at the time of the issuance of the permit. Each sub-
contractor or his agent shall be responsible for the payment of the permit fees
charged to enable him to perform the work for which the permit is issued.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.29 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for residential building permits shall be based upon the total area of
the building. Fees for commercial building permits shall be based upon the
total cost of proposed work including all sub-contracts, if any. All building
inspections permit fees shall be set by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners
and will be kept on file with the Building Inspections Department. All work
started before permitted is subject to a double permit fee. All permit fees for
non- profit tax exempt organizations as described in G.S. § 105-278.3 are
waived.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-02; Am. Ord. passed 7-1-06; Am. Ord.
passed 7-1-07; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11; Am. Ord. passed 6-18-13; Am. Ord. passed
1-7-19; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-21)
§ 150.30 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In the event the County Building Inspector has determined that an owner,
contractor, or permittee to whom has been issued a building permit has failed
to comply with the provisions of the North Carolina Building Code and has
either issued a stop order; revoked the permit; directed the permittee to
correct the defect, or issued an order to take corrective action, which order
has not been complied with, the Building Inspector shall not thereafter issue
to the same owner, contractor, or permittee any other building permit for
construction of any structure in the county until the owner, contractor, or
permittee has taken whatever action is necessary to correct the defects cited
by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 10-18-89)
CONDEMNATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 ADOPTION OF ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The 2009 edition of the North Carolina State Building Code Administration
and Enforcement Requirements and the General Statutes pertaining to the
enforcement of the North Carolina State Building Code is hereby adopted by Ashe
County in reference to the condemnation of unsafe buildings.
(Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.41 DUTY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in such a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition as to be dangerous to life,
health, or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or public
nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   Such unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded or any other hazardous condition or circumstances as set out in
state law. The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty to condemn as unsafe each such building and affix a notice of the
dangerous character of the building to a conspicuous place on its exterior
wall.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.42 REMOVING NOTICE FROM CONDEMNED BUILDING.
   No person shall remove a notice that has been affixed to a building by a
local inspector and that states the dangerous character of the building.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.43 DUTY OF OWNER; PROCEDURE FOR NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   If the owner of a building that has been condemned as unsafe fails to
take prompt, corrective action, the Building Inspector shall by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service, give
his or her written notice:
      (1)   That the building is in a condition that appears to constitute a
fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health, or other property.
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated
place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner is entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to present
arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Inspector may issue any order to
repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building that appears appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building in question at least ten
days before the day of the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published at
least once not later than one week before the hearing.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.44 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, after a hearing, the Inspector finds that the building is in a condition
that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life,
health, or other property, he shall issue a written order, directed to the
repair, closing, vacating, or demolishing the building or taking other
necessary steps, within such period, not less than 60 days, as the Inspector
may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.45 APPEAL.
   An owner who has received an order may appeal from the order to the Board of
Commissioners by giving written notice of appeal to the Inspector and the Clerk
within ten days following the day the order is issued. In the absence of an
appeal, the order of the Inspector is final. The Board of Commissioners shall
hear any appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.46 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   No owner of a building shall fail to comply with an order from which no
appeal has been taken, or fail to comply with an order of the Board of
Commissioners following an appeal.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75) Penalty, see §
150.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.55 DEPARTMENT OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Organization. An inspection department, known officially and
designated as the Department of Inspections, is hereby established pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 153A, Article 18, Part 2, and may consist of a building inspector,
a plumbing and heating inspector, an electrical inspector, and such other
personnel as may be authorized by the Board of Commissioners. One person may
fill one or more of these positions. The Chairman of the Board of Commissioners
may designate a Department Head.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Department of Inspections to enforce
all of the provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted
herein; to make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the
provisions of this chapter and such codes are being met; and to enforce any
zoning, and subdivision regulations and other codes adopted by the county.
      (2)   The Department of Inspections shall be responsible for the
enforcement of any ordinance or code adopted by the Board of Commissioners
relating to the construction, alteration, repair, etc., closing, and demolition
of dwellings unfit for human habitation, pursuant to G.S. Chapter 153A, Article
18, Part 4.
   (C)   Conflicts of interest. No member of the Department of Inspections
shall be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or
appliances for the construction, alteration, or maintenance of any building or
any part or system thereof, or in the making of plans or specifications
therefor, or in the subdivision and development of land. No member of the
Department of Inspections shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with
his duties or with the interest of the county.
   (D)   Reports and records. The Department of Inspections and each employee,
shall keep complete, permanent, and accurate records in convenient form of all
applications received, permits issued, inspections and reinspections made, and
all other work and activities of the Department of Inspections. Written monthly
reports shall be submitted to the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners,
and to other agencies, as required.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.56 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, (and no change in
occupancy, with regard to permitted uses as provided in the county zoning
ordinance, as provided now or hereafter, shall be made in any existing building
or part thereof), until the Department of Inspections has examined and
inspected the building and found that the building in all respects conforms to
the provisions of this chapter and all applicable ordinances of the county and
the State of North Carolina.
   (A)   Inspections. The Department of Inspections shall inspect all buildings
and structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued
as often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes. When deemed necessary by the appropriate
inspector, materials and assemblies may be inspected at the point of
manufacture or fabrication, or inspections may be made by approval and
recognized inspection organizations; provided, no approval shall be based upon
reports of such organizations unless the same are in writing and certified by a
responsible officer of such organization. All holders of permits, or their
agents, shall notify the Department of Inspection at each of the following
stages so that approval may be given before work is continued:
      (1)   Building permits.
         (a)   Site inspection. It shall be made upon application for a
building permit.
         (b)   Foundation inspection. It shall be made after trenches are
excavated and the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before
concrete is placed. Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations
shall be inspected as installed.
         (c)   Framing inspection. It shall be made after all structural
framing is in place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating
has been installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are
installed, but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured-in-
place concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
         (d)   Fireproofing inspection. It shall be conducted after all areas
required to be protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering
or other fireproofing is applied.
         (e)   Final inspection. It will be conducted after building or
structure has all doors hung, fixtures set, and ready for occupancy, but before
the building is occupied.
      (2)   Plumbing permits.
         (a)   Inspection of rough plumbing. This step is the same as division
(1)(c) above.
         (b)   Final inspection. This step is the same as division (1)(e)
above.
         (c)   Septic tanks. See page 6.
      (3)   Electric permits.
         (a)   Temporary service inspection. It shall be required when
temporary service has been installed.
         (b)   Inspection of rough wiring. An electrical inspection will be
required after the installation of rough wiring. This step is the same as
division (1)(c) above, under building permits.
      (4)   Heating, air conditioning, and venting permits.
         (a)   Inspection of rough ducts, wiring and plumbing. An inspection
will be required after the installation of all rough plumbing, wiring, ductwork
or other materials related to a heating, venting, or an air conditioning
system.
         (b)   Final inspection. A final inspection of the heating, air
conditioning or venting system will be required when the structure is ready for
occupancy, but before the building is occupied.
   (B)   Requests for inspections.
      (1)   Requests for inspections shall be made to the office of the
Department of Inspections. Such request must be on forms provided by the
Department. The Department shall make inspections as soon as practical after
the requested inspection date.
      (2)   Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the Inspector. No
work shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before a timely inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection, provided that the inspection is made within 24
hours following the requested inspection date (excluding Saturdays, Sundays,
and Legal Holidays). Approval or rejection of the work shall be furnished by
the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the building or
given to the permit holder or his agent or contractor. Failure to request
inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75; Am. Ord. passed 2-4-11)
§ 150.57 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Department of Inspections shall be deemed to
legalize the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.58 POWERS OF INSPECTIONS OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered, and directed
to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and other regulatory codes
adopted.
   (B)   Right of entry. Inspectors shall have the right of entry on any
premises within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal
holidays, for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of
this chapter and the regulatory codes, upon presentation of proper credentials.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a
hazardous manner or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
county ordinance, or in violation of any provisions of any regulatory code
adopted by the county, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits
issued therefor, or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the
appropriate inspector may order the specific part of such work which is in
violation or presents such a hazard, to be stopped immediately. Such order
shall be in writing to the owner of the property or to his agent, or to the
person doing the work, and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions
under which the work may be resumed.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.59 EVIDENCE OF INSURANCE REQUIRED OF CONTRACTORS.
   Every person carrying on the business of building contractor, plumbing
contractor, or electrical contractor within the county must have a policy of
general liability insurance insuring the person up to a minimum of $10,000 for
claims arising out of negligent work or conduct by him in the course and scope
of his work performed as a contractor.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.60 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to fail or refuse to comply
with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or the Board of
Commissioners made by virtue and in pursuance of this chapter, and any person
violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by North
Carolina General Statutes for the violation of county ordinances, and every day
such person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any final order or
direction of the Inspections Department or the Board of Commissioners made by
virtue and in pursuance of this chapter, shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
§ 150.61 EQUITABLE ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever a violation is deemed a misdemeanor under the provision of this
chapter, the county, either in addition to or in lieu of other remedies, may
initiate any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the building involved.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
MOUNTAIN RIDGE PROTECTION
§ 150.70 MOUNTAIN RIDGE PROTECTION LAW.
   The Board of Commissioners elects for the County to be covered under the
provisions of G.S. 113A, Article 14 entitled "Mountain Ridge Protection Law",
provided, however that the Board elects to eliminate the requirement for an
elevation of 3,000 feet as permitted by G.S. 113A-206(6), thereby allowing
state prohibition to apply to any Ridge 500 feet or more above an adjacent
valley floor, as stated by G.S. 113A, Article 14.
(Ord. passed 12-21-83)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the requirements of §
150.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be penalized the maximum amount
specified by G.S. § 14-4. Each day of continuing violation shall be considered
a separate offense. The county may additionally impose such penalties as deemed
appropriate and authorized by G.S. § 153A-123, including fines, injunctions,
and orders of abatement.
(Ord. passed 4-17-91)
   (C)   A violation of §
150.30 shall be punishable as provided by G.S. § 14-4; and in addition thereto,
the county may proceed to enforce compliance with §
150.30 and the Building Code pursuant to the equitable authority given it in
state law.
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of §
150.41 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
150.45 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 7-7-75)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
General Provisions
   
151.06   Lands to which this ordinance applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.13   Penalties for violation
Administration
   
151.25   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.26   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
151.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.28   Corrective procedures
   
151.29   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   General standards
   
151.41   Specific standards
   
151.42   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.43   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.44   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
151.45   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO zones)
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.60   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention chapter
   
151.61   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
151.62   Severability
   
151.63   Effective date
   
151.64   Adoption Certification
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE, AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Article
7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated
to local governmental units the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   Therefore, the Board of County Commissioners does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of Ashe County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (1)   To protect human life and health;
   (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (4)   To minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (9)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (10)   To ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   AREA OF FUTURE-CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD means the land area that would be
inundated by the 1-percent-annual- chance (100-year) flood based on future-
conditions hydrology.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “special flood hazard area”, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal or state or other source using
FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
“freeboard”, establishes the “regulatory flood protection elevation.”
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY.  A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as Development which will
necessitate a Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community, dated August 1, 1988.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the original effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME
SUBDIVISION. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the homes are to be affixed,
including, but not limited to, the installation of utilities, the construction
of streets, final site grading or pouring of concrete.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or a Cooperating Technical
State, on which the special flood hazard areas and the floodways are
delineated. This official map is a supplement to and shall be used in
conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated,
(see also DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage
to real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product [material, component or
system] capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheettype flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable flood-resistant
materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic
models meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization on the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior)    or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program”.
   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US Department
of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. Letters of Map Change include:
      (a)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (b)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (c)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (d)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular
Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is:
      (a)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle, or
      (b)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (c)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY.  The location of the official flood hazard data to be
applied for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data
is stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the
application of digital flood hazard data products have the same authority as
hard copy products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites
house current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data
the NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NAVD 1988. The vertical control datum established for vertical control
surveying in the United States of America based upon the General Adjustment of
the North American Datum of 1988. It replaces the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) of 1929.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the original version of the community's Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of the ordinance and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the clerk's or
recorder's stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete footers) is completed on or after the effective date of the
original version of the community's Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR USE.  Any legally existing building or use which
fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
(1) foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT WIDTH.  The distance between the mapped center of a stream
and the boundary of the nonencroachment area.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 1988). The vertical control
datum established for vertical control surveying in the United States of
America based upon the General Adjustment of the North American Datum of 1988.
   PARK MODEL TRAILER.  A unit that is built upon a single chassis mounted on
wheels, and having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet in the
set-up mode. A PARK MODEL TRAILER is intended for seasonal use and is not
intended as a permanent dwelling unit or for commercial uses such as banks,
clinics or offices.
   POST-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map for the area.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map for the area.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use,
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (6)   For purposes of this chapter, a park model trailer is not
considered a recreational vehicle.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor, excluding the foundation system, for structures within all
special flood hazard areas.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). The base flood elevation plus
the freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus four (4) feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least four feet above the next highest adjacent
grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a) (35), any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.  As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a) (36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
151.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.  SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by community
code enforcement official(s) and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe
living conditions; or,
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
151.29 of this ordinance.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN and TECHNICAL FACT SHEET means a FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
State and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
It should be noted that Technical Bulletins and Technical Fact Sheets provide
guidance on the minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or
community requirements that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design
professionals should contact the community officials to determine whether more
restrictive State or local regulations apply to the building or site in
question. All applicable standards of the State or local building code must
also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Means having the temperature regulated by a heating
and/or cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required under §
151.25 through §
151.29 and provisions for flood hazard reduction portions of this chapter, §
151.40 through §
151.45, is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS ORDINANCE APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of Ashe County and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated November 4, 2009 for Ashe County and associated DFIRM panels,
including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this ordinance, and all revisions thereto.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with §
151.07.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.12 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of Ashe County or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.13 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to NC G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100.00 or imprisoned for not more
than thirty (30) days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Ashe
County from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Manager or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.26 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
151.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined on the FIRM noted in §
151.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided on the FIRM or the
accompanying flood profiles;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and,
         (g)   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-residential
structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-034)
with supporting data and an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   An engineered foundation/building plan for the Building Code
Official to review, drawn to scale, which shall include details of the proposed
foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are met. These
details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and,
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
151.41(D)(3), when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO,
AE, and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received
(wetlands, endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian
buffers, mining, etc.).
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure §
151.41 (F) and (G) are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment of materials, etc.).
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development per available data specified in §
151.07;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with general timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no materials, including fill material or other
development of any type shall encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment
area of any watercourse, unless the requirements of §
151.44 have been met;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1 -30;
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable), (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only); and
      (9)   A statement that no fill will be placed in the SFHA expect for
limited construction purposes (e.g. to backfill a structure or cover a septic
system placement), or for engineered roads and bridges; and that any materials
below BFE/RFPE must be flood resistant materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior
to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after
the reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven day
calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the
permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final finished elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is
required after construction is completed and prior to final inspection and
certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the reference level and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The Finished Construction Elevation
Certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in Section A. To the extent possible, these
photographs should show the entire building including foundation. If the
building has split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least 2 additional
photographs showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable,
provide a photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the
flood openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least
3" x 3". Digital photographs are acceptable.
         (d)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is
used to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data and an
operational plan, is required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data and plan.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior
to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. (The FEMA
floodproofing certificate is optional at the time of permitting the structure
but recommended to ensure compliance with this ordinance and properly permit
the structure.)
         (e)   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/ Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to Certificate of Occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a Floodplain Development Permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
      (2)   Manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AE, AH, AO, A99 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required per §
151.41(C)(2).
      (3)   Watercourses. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (4)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, AH, AO, A99, are exempt from the elevation/ floodproofing
certification requirements specified in division (C)(1) and (2) of this
section:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.41 (F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.41(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less and
meeting the requirements of §
151.41(H).
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this ordinance is required.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within the Special Flood Hazard Areas
and advise permittee that additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers,
mining, etc.) may be required including, Section 404 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334, and require that
copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the floodplain
development permit.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Assure that the flood-carrying capacity
within the altered or relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   (D)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.44 are met.
   (E)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new or
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
151.26(C).
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with §
151.26(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with §
151.26(C).
   (H)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with §§
151.26(C) and
151.41(B).
   (I)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
   (J)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with flood
way data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.42(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. When BFE
data is provided but no floodway nor non-encroachment area data has been
provided in accordance with §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter. The preferred method of
determining non-encroachment widths between cross sections is numerical
interpolation.
   (K)   When the lowest ground elevation of a parcel or structure in a special
flood hazard area is above the base flood elevation, advise the property owner
of the option to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain
a copy of the LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   (L)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (M)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (N)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to
be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under
which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a
misdemeanor.
   (O)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (P)   Make periodic inspections throughout all special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her department or designee shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (Q)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.28.
   (R)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (S)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map Change,
issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (T)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letter of Map
Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
   (U)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area is above
the BFE, advise the property owner of the option to apply for a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issues by FEMA in the
floodplain development permit file.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.28 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and,
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
appears appropriate.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, they shall issue an
order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, they may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to NC G.S.
§ 143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.29 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Ashe County Planning Board as established by the County Board of
Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter. In the
event an appeal board is not designated, the County Board of Commissioners
shall act as the appeal board.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.05, provided provisions of division (1), (2), (3), and (5) of this section
have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize
flood damages.
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
in §
151.05 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the floodplain management
program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors may be submitted
with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA) and the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The county has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities equipment shall be located at or above
regulatory flood protection elevation or designed and installed to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during the occurrence
of the base flood These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water
softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/
boxes, utility/cable boxes, appliances (washers, dryers, refrigerators,
freezers, etc.), hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements part of a substantial improvement, electrical,
heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service
equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
ordinance and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in the floodway,
nonencroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
ordinance; and provided that if possible, the building or structure be re-
located outside the floodway or non-encroachment area.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.29 (J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
151.26 (C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (O)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for each lot in all
subdivision proposals and delineated accurately on preliminary and final plats.
Recorded plats should contain a disclaimer statement stipulating that if base
flood elevation data is revised in the future, the revisions, if more
stringent, may take precedence over those displayed on the plat. Flood hazard
boundary map numbers and dates shall be displayed on the plat.
   (P)   All new subdivisions shall, if possible, have access roads located
outside the 100-year floodplain. All roads within the 100-year floodplain shall
be pre-approved by the NC Emergency Management Floodplain Mapping Division and
engineered and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (Q)   No fill material will be placed in the SFHA expect for limited
construction purposes (e.g. to backfill a structure or cover a septic system
placement), or for engineered roads and bridges.
   (R)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (S)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard zone and the highest base flood elevation
shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided, as set forth in §
151.07, or §
151.27(K) and (L), the following provisions, in addition to §
151.40, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than four feet above the
base flood elevation (otherwise known as the Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation (RFPE)).
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than four
feet above the base flood elevation (RFPE). Structures located in A, AE, AO,
and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed to the RFPE in lieu of elevation provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the RFPE are watertight with walls substantially impermeable
to the passage of water, using structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO
Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be in accordance with §
151.45(C). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
151.26(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New or replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that the
reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than four feet above the
base flood elevation.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by engineer certification, or in accordance with the most current edition of
the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to NC G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when
the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less
above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers
or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches
in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Article D of this section.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, flood openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To
meet this requirement, the openings must be certified by a professional
engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria;
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (4)   Where an independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided
between the addition and the existing building, the addition(s) shall be
considered a separate building and only the addition must comply with the
standards for new construction.
      (5)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the one
year period begins on the date of the first improvement or repair of that
building or structure subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance.
Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on
two separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure has
sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the building
official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use at all times (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and,
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) are to be
placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential and shall not be within the floodway;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
§
151.40(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with §
151.40(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with (D) (3) of this section.
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
151.26(C).
   (I)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
Special Flood Hazard Area (excluding septic tanks approved by the Appalachian
District Health Department), the following criteria shall be met:
      (a)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty;
      (b)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
      (c)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of §
151.41 (B) of this ordinance shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided
the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all
flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the
floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant
and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.
      (d)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be:
         At or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
         Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during conditions of the
design flood.
   (J)   Other Development.
      (a)   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of §
151.44 of this ordinance.
      (b)   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways and
NEAs. Retaining walls and sidewalks and driveways that involve the placement of
fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of §
151.44 of this ordinance.
      (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one side
of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of §
151.44 of this ordinance.
      (d)   Commercial storage facilities are not considered “limited storage”
as noted in this ordinance, and shall be protected to the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation as required for commercial structures.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA or a
Cooperating Technical State, the following provisions, in addition to §§
151.40 and
151.41, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on one of the following criteria set in priority
order:
      (1)   If BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
accordance with standards in §§
151.40 and
151.41.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
151.41 and
151.44.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference per §
151.07 to be utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
151.05. All other applicable provisions of §
151.41 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or a Cooperating
Technical State, or is available from another source but neither floodway nor
non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all
development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards outlined in §§
151.40 and
151.41; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.44 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outline in §
151.40 and
151.41, shall apply to all development within such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted, with the exception of
roads and bridges. Road and bridge projects shall demonstrate that:
      (1)   The proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the
flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood, based on hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice
and presented to the Floodplain Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain
development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If §
151.44 (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
§ 151.45 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding
is unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
151.40 and
151.41, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of two feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the next highest adjacent grade plus a freeboard of two feet if no depth
number is specified.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in division (A) of this section so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required as per §§
151.26(C) and
151.41(B).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22) Penalty, see §
151.13
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.60 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION CHAPTER.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted September 21, 2009, as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of Ashe County enacted on September 21, 2009, as amended, which are
not reenacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.61 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.62 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence, or phrase of the Ordinance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.63 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall become effective 12/19/2022.
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
§ 151.64 ADOPTION CERTIFICATION.
   I hereby certify that this is a true and correct copy of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance as adopted by the governing body of Ashe County, North
Carolina on the 19th day of December, 2022.
WITNESS my hand and the official seal of Missy Selvers, Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners, this the 19th day of December, 2022.
/s/
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c63315997f984fb0edec1dfdf59ea42e22c71247/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1387.png]
 
(Ord. passed 9-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22)
CHAPTER 152: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and authority
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Standards for manufactured homes
   
152.04   Manufactured home parks
   
152.05   Approval of plans
   
152.06   Temporary permit
   
152.07   Temporary permit expiration and revocation
   
152.08   Variances
   
152.09   Amendments
   
152.10   Conflict with other ordinances
   
152.11   Conflict of interest
   
152.12   Severability
   
152.13   Appeals
   
152.14   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)    Manufactured homes have become an important factor in providing safe
and sound housing for the residents of the county, with increasing acceptance
of this type of housing indicated by the constantly rising number of such
housing units. To maintain a safe, sanitary environment for the occupants of
manufactured homes and residents of manufactured home parks; to protect the
ecologically sensitive mountain slopes; and to insure compatibility with
conventional housing, these regulations are provided.
   (B)   The following regulations for the protection of the public and for
insuring the compliance with the manufactured home manufacturing standards are
hereby adopted pursuant to authority granted by G.S. § 130-17, and G.S.
Chapters 143 through 149; and pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-
910, the County Commissioners do hereby ordain and enact into law the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. Any person who is employed by the county as a designated
building inspector.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. The official document issued by the county to
certify that all work to make the structure suitable for occupancy has been
completed in accordance with all pertinent state and local regulations and
ordinances.
   COUNTY. Any reference in this chapter to county shall mean Ashe County.
   FAMILIAL RELATIONSHIP. For purposes of this chapter, a “close familial
relationship” means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
   G.S. (GENERAL STATUTES). Official law provisions enacted by the North
Carolina General Assembly.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The County Health Director or authorized representative.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width, or  40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet; and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling, with or
without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein. “Manufactured home” includes any structure that meets all of
the requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with
respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by
the Secretary of HUD and complies with the standards established under the Act.
For manufactured homes built before June 15, 1976, “manufactured home” means a
portable manufactured housing unit designed for transportation on its own
chassis and placement on a temporary or semipermanent foundation having a
measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
“Manufactured home” also means a double-wide manufactured home, which is two or
more portable manufactured housing units designed for transportation on their
own chassis that connect on site for placement on a temporary or semipermanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. The sale or rental of any site or tract of land upon
which three (3) or more manufactured homes occupied for dwelling or sleeping
purposes are located.
   MANUFACTURED HOME TEMPORARY PERMIT. A certificate issued by the County
Planner allowing occupancy or use for a stated time, describing work to be done
in order to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter by the
applicant.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. That portion of land in a manufactured home park
allotted or designed for accommodation of one manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME. A commonly used expression for a manufactured home and prior to
the adoption of MANUFACTURED HOME as the official designation, described any
trailer or other vehicle manufactured before June 15, 1976; maintained, offered
or used for living or sleeping purposes; equipped or intended to be equipped
with a wheel or wheels or similar devices for the purpose of transporting the
unit; in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet
or more in length; and when erected on site has 320 or more square feet of
heated floor space. For purposes of this chapter, a MOBILE HOME shall be
regulated as a manufactured home.
   OPERATOR. The person who owns or is responsible for operation of a
manufactured home park.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, legal representative or other recognized legal entity.
   SHALL. Any place the word "shall" appears in this chapter it is mandatory.
   SKIRTING. For the purposes of this chapter, skirting is the approved
material from the bottom of the manufactured home to the surface of the ground
upon which the manufactured home is sited.
   TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. For the purposes of this chapter, an area that is
subject to the regulations of Ashe County, which excludes areas inside
incorporated municipality boundaries and areas claimed as extraterritorial
jurisdiction by an incorporated municipality. (At the time of adoption of this
chapter, incorporated municipalities are Jefferson, Lansing and West
Jefferson.)
   UNDERPINNING. Any reference to underpinning in this chapter shall mean the
same as skirting.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.03 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)    Every manufactured home dwelling unit, whether permanent, seasonal,
or temporary in use that is placed or moved from within or outside the county
shall have a water and sewage disposal system approved by the North Carolina
Department of Environmental, Health, and Natural Resources, or its successor
organization.
   (B)   The minimum lot size for a manufactured home not located in a
manufactured home park shall be 20,000 square feet. This minimum size may be
increased in certain watershed areas as required by the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, or its successor
organization.
   (C)   Construction of the foundation shall comply with the North Carolina
Building Codes as set out in G.S. Chapter 143, Article 9B, "Uniform Standards
Code for Manufactured Homes." Skirting material shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements in the State of North Carolina Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes handbook, chapter 4.7.7, page 61.
   (D)   All manufactured home units sold, purchased, or carried into the
county's territorial jurisdiction after June 15, 1976, shall have permanently
affixed a label of certification required by HUD to be permanently affixed to
each transportable section of each manufactured home manufactured for sale to a
purchaser in the United States to indicate that the manufactured home conforms
to all applicable federal construction and safety standards, in accordance with
G.S. Chapter 143, Article 9B, "Uniform Standards Code For Manufactured Homes".
   (E)   The legal status of any manufactured home built before June 15, 1976
that does not have a permanently affixed label of certification from HUD, and
lawfully sited within the county's territorial jurisdiction before the
effective date of this chapter, shall not be affected.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 8-2-10; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.04 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)    (1)   Any person desiring to own or operate a manufactured home park
shall submit a comprehensive plan at the time of application for a permit. Upon
final approval, a plat of the external boundaries of the manufactured home park
shall be recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds. Such plat must
meet requirements of G.S. § 47-30.
      (2)   The comprehensive plan shall be drawn to scale of not less than 100
feet to the inch and shall show the following:
         (a)   The name of the manufactured home park, the names and addresses
of the owner(s) and the designer of the park; date, north arrow, and the
boundary lines of the tract with accurate linear and angular dimensions drawn
to the described scale.
         (b)   The locations of existing and platted property lines, streets,
buildings, water courses, railroad rights-of-way, bridges, water mains, sewers,
culverts, drainpipes and any utility easements on the land to be developed as a
manufactured home park. The names of adjoining subdivisions or the names of
owners of adjoining parcels.
         (c)   Locations and dimensions of proposed streets, alleys, driveways,
entrances, exits, walkways, easements, recreation areas, and other spaces,
reservations, trailer spaces and building lines within the manufactured home
park.
         (d)   Proposed utility layouts (sewer line, water lines, storm
drainage, etc.) showing feasible connections to existing and proposed utility
systems; plans for electric lighting; and the location and number of garbage
receptacles. Water and sewer systems shall meet the requirements of the North
Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, or its
successor organization. All wired connections from meter to manufactured home
must comply with the national electrical codes.
   (B)   Dimensional site requirements for all manufactured home parks shall be
as follows:
      (1)   The minimum size lot, tract or parcel of land to be used for a
manufactured home park shall not be less than one acre in size and shall
contain sites for at least three manufactured homes. If an approved community
sanitary system is provided, there shall be no more than six manufactured homes
per acre.
      (2)   No manufactured home shall be located closer than 20 feet to any
other manufactured home or residential structure, except that storage or other
auxiliary structures adjacent to and for the exclusive use of any one
manufactured home is exempt from this requirement.
      (3)   No manufactured home shall be located closer than 30 feet to any
public right-of- way or space used for laundry, recreation, or other similar
community purposes, and shall be located no closer than 25 feet to the exterior
boundary of the manufactured home park or the right-of-way of a bordering
public road or street, or no closer than 20 feet to the roads inside the
manufactured home park.
      (4)   Each manufactured home space shall abut a driveway within the park
area. The driveways shall be graded and surfaced with not less than four inches
of crushed stone or other suitable paving material on a well compacted sub-base
to a continuous width of 25 feet, exclusive of required parking space.
      (5)   Two off-driveway parking spaces with not less than four inches of
crushed stone or other suitable paving material on a well compacted sub-base
shall be provided for each manufactured home space. Required parking may be
included within the minimum required lot area for each manufactured home space.
Additional parking spaces for other vehicles may be provided.
      (6)   At least 200 square feet of recreation space for each manufactured
home as common recreation space for residents of the manufactured home park.
Such areas shall, along with driveways and walkways, be adequately lighted for
safety.
      (7)   Cul-de-sacs, when required, shall be provided with turn-around
having a 40-foot radius. All interior streets shall be retained as private
streets on the manufactured home park property.
      (8)   A 20-foot wide buffer shall be provided around the perimeter of the
manufactured home park. The purpose of the buffer is to create the impression
of spatial separation between parks and adjacent land uses without eliminating
visual contact. Buffers shall consist of plantings of evergreen trees spaced no
less than 30 feet apart. Such trees shall be at least four feet high at the
time of planting and shall reach a height of no less than 20 feet at maturity.
In addition, plantings of low growing shrubs, bushes, or trees shall be placed
at ten-foot intervals. Plantings within buffer areas shall be staggered unless
topography is prohibitive. No plantings shall be placed in a public road right-
of-way. A list of permissible trees may be obtained from the County Extension
Service.
   (C)   Each manufactured home park shall provide minimum facilities for
manufactured home occupants as follows:
      (1)   All plumbing installations shall conform to the county building
codes. Each manufactured home shall be required to make a separate connection
with sanitary sewer facilities immediately upon occupying a manufactured home
site. A minimum of a four-inch connection shall be required and shall have
approved fittings to insure a water-tight connection and means for capping or
closing such connection when it is not in use.
      (2)   Two garbage containers, with a total of 20-gallon minimum capacity
shall be provided for each manufactured home, and containers shall be placed on
racks located within the manufactured park at a point which is readily
accessible for collection. In lieu of requiring individual garbage and trash
containers for each manufactured home, other approved garbage and trash
disposal facilities may be provided with the approval of the County Planning
Board.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and operator to keep
the manufactured home park in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition at all
times, and to maintain and keep in good repair all required manufactured home
park facilities. All waste water from washing machines and other similar
sources shall be discharged into the manufactured home park's sanitary sewer
system and under no circumstances shall such wastes be discharged on the ground
or in a stream.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.05 APPROVAL OF PLANS.
   (A)    A manufactured home park plan meeting the requirements of §
152.04 shall be submitted for review and approval by the Planning Board before
any improvements are made to land proposed for a manufactured home park. This
plan shall be submitted to the County Planner in eight copies at least 15 days
before the meeting of the Planning Board at which it is to be reviewed.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review this plan for any changes required in
order that the manufactured home park may comply with this chapter. After
revisions in the plan, if required, the Planning Board will take formal action
within two regularly scheduled meetings after the meeting at which the plan was
first reviewed. Failure to take formal action within this time period shall
have the same effect as a recommendation that the plan be approved. Within five
days after its final action on the plan, the Planning Board shall notify the
builder/ developer by letter of its recommendation. Within ten days after final
approval the builder/developer shall pay the required fees and file a copy of
the approved plan with the County Building Inspector.
   (C)   Every decision of the Planning Board shall be subject to review at the
request of the aggrieved party by the Board of Adjustment. The appeal to the
Board of Adjustment must be filed within 30 days from the notification of the
Planning Board's action.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.06 TEMPORARY PERMIT.
   (A)    Individual manufactured homes or prefabricated units may be used as
temporary residences, temporary offices, temporary security quarters, or other
temporary uses, provided a permit is obtained from the County Planner for good
cause shown. Application for such permit shall be made to the County Planner 15
days prior to anticipated temporary usage.
   (B)   Every temporary use manufactured home or prefabricated unit placed in
the county shall have water and sewage disposal systems approved by the North
Carolina Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, or its
successor organization. Such approval shall be in writing and provided to the
County Planner.
   (C)   Temporary permits may be initially issued for a maximum 12-month
period, and may be renewed for successive six-month periods by the County
Planner for good cause shown. An adverse decision by the County Planner may be
appealed to the Planning Board.
   (D)   A standard manufactured home location permit shall be issued by the
County Planner to the County Building Inspector upon compliance by an applicant
with all rules and regulations contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.07 TEMPORARY PERMIT EXPIRATION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)    In the event the County Building Inspector or County Planner has
determined that the owner, contractor, or permittee to whom has been issued a
manufactured home temporary permit has failed to comply with the provisions of
the temporary permit, a certificate of occupancy for the housing unit will be
denied.
   (B)   A temporary permit shall expire 120 days after the date of issuance,
if the work authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If after
commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit
shall expire. Work authorized by any permit that has expired shall not continue
until a new permit has been secured
   (C)   If the manufactured home is not conforming to the required standards
after the expiration date of the last valid temporary permit, the owner will be
required to remove the manufactured home from Ashe County. Provided, that the
owner will not be cited for a violation within 30 days from that expiration
date, and if the owner has brought the manufactured home into the required
standards within the 30 days, upon payment of a separate inspection fee to the
building inspector to re-inspect the manufactured home, the owner may obtain a
certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   If the owner of the manufactured home is not in compliance within the
allotted time, then the provisions of condemnation, as described in state law
shall be invoked.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.08 VARIANCES.
    Where, because of conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the
provisions to this chapter would cause an unnecessary hardship, a written
petition for a variance shall be considered by the Board of Adjustment, which
may authorize a variance if it can be made in fairness to other applicants and
without destroying the intent and purposes of this chapter. Any authorized
variance shall be entered in writing in the official minutes of the Planning
Board with the reasons described for which the exception was made.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.09 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Planning Board may consider and make recommendations to the County
Commissioners concerning proposed amendments.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.10 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
    The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for the promotion of public health, safety or general welfare. Whenever
the requirements of this chapter are in conflict with any other lawfully
adopted regulations or statute, the most restrictive or that imposing the
higher standards shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.11 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative Staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this Chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this Chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.12 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.13 APPEALS.
   An applicant requesting approval of a manufacture home or manufactured home
park who are aggrieved by a decision by the Planning Department may appeal said
decision to the Board of Adjustment. The appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the Board of Adjustment within thirty calendar days of receipt of notice of
decision. If notice of decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is
received on the third business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
   (A)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 5/15/2023.
(Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day's continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-19-09; Am. Ord. 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING
Section
   
153.01   Scope of planning
   
153.02   Planning agencies
   
153.03   Board of County Commissioners
   
153.04   County Planning Board
   
153.05   Planning Department
   
153.06   Inspections Department
   
153.07   Economic Development Department
   
153.08   Separability
   
153.09   Effective date
§ 153.01 SCOPE OF PLANNING.
   Every action and program of every component of the county involves planning,
in a broad sense of the term. For the purposes of this chapter, the term is
restricted to activities and programs involving physical, economic, and social
development of the county.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.02 PLANNING AGENCIES.
   The following are designated as planning agencies assigned responsibilities
under this chapter: the Board of County Commissioners, the Planning Board, the
Planning Department, the Inspection Department, the Airport Authority and the
Economic Development Department.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.03 BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   In its legislative capacity the Board adopts policies, Chapters, and
amendments; appropriates funds; approves acquisition, construction, and
disposition of public facilities; and oversees the Land Usage Ordinances of the
county. In its quasi-judicial capacity it serves as the Board of Adjustment for
the High Impact Land Use Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.04 COUNTY PLANNING BOARD.
   The Planning Board of the County is hereby created, in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Membership and vacancies. The Planning Board shall consist of five
members. All members shall be citizens and residents of the county and shall be
appointed by the County Commissioners. Two of the initial members shall be
appointed for a term of one year; two for two years; and one for three years.
Their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. Vacancies
occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall be filled as they
occur for the period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed for cause by
the County Commissioners. If any member shall miss three consecutive meetings
without good excuse, this shall be deemed cause for dismissal.
   (B)   Organization, rules, meetings, and records. Within 30 days after
appointment, the Planning Board shall meet and elect a chairperson and create
and fill such offices as it may determine. The term of the chairperson and
other officers shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The Board
shall adopt rules for transaction of its business and shall keep a record of
its members' attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and
recommendations, which shall be public record. The Board shall hold at least
one meeting monthly, and all of its meetings shall be open to the public. For
the purpose of taking any official action three members will constitute a
quorum.
   (C)   General powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Planning Board,
in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   To identify needs and problems growing out of those needs;
      (3)   To determine objectives to be sought in development of the county;
      (4)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in
development of the county;
      (5)   To prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical, social, and economic development of the
county;
      (6)   To prepare and recommend to the County Commissioners ordinances
promoting orderly development along lines indicated in the comprehensive plan
and advise them concerning proposed amendments of such ordinances;
      (7)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area and ordinances adopted in furtherance of such plan;
      (8)   To keep the County Commissioners and the general public informed
and advised as to these matters;
      (9)   To perform such quasi-judicial functions as: hearing appeals to
administrative decisions and issuing variances; and
      (10)   To perform any other duties that may lawfully be assigned to it.
   (D)   Basic studies.
      (1)   As background for its comprehensive plan and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of physical
features of the county; statistics on past trends and present conditions with
respect to population, property values, the economic base of the county, and
land use; and such other information as is important or likely to be important
in determining the amount, direction, and kind of development to be expected in
the area and its various parts.
      (2)   In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be made, or
obtain special studies on the location, the condition, and the adequacy of
specific facilities, which may include, but are not limited to, studies of
housing; commercial and industrial facilities; parks, playgrounds, and other
recreational facilities; public and private utilities; and traffic,
transportation, and parking facilities.
      (3)   All county officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Board such available records or information as it may require in its work. The
Board or its agents may, in the performance of its official duties, enter upon
lands and make examinations or surveys and maintain necessary monuments
thereon.
   (E)   Comprehensive Plan.
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts,
and descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning Board's recommendations
to the County Commissioners for the development of Ashe County, including,
among other things; the general location, character, and extent of streets,
bridges, boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields,
and other public ways, grounds, and open spaces; the general location and
extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned
or operated, for water, light, sanitation, transportation, communication,
power, and other purposes; the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing,
vacating, abandonment, change of use, or extension of any of the foregoing
ways, buildings, grounds, open spaces, property, utilities, or terminals; and
the most desirable pattern of land use within the area, including areas for
farming and forestry, for manufacturing and industrial uses, for commercial
uses, for recreational uses, for open spaces, and for mixed uses.
      (2)   The Plan and any chapters or other measures to effectuate it shall
be made with the general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated,
adjusted, and harmonious development of the county that will, in accordance
with present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, and the
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the process of
development; including, among other things adequate provision for traffic, the
promotion of safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for light
and air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision of public
utilities, services, and other public requirements.
   (F)   Public facilities. The Planning Board shall review with the County
Manager and other officials and report its recommendations to the County
Commissioners concerning the location and design of all proposed public
structures and facilities; the acquisition and disposition of public
properties; and the establishment of building lines, mapped street lines, and
proposals to change existing streets. It shall also make recommendations
concerning other matters referred to it by the County Commissioners.
   (G)   Miscellaneous powers and duties.
      (1)   The Planning Board may conduct such public surveys as may be
required to gather information for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance
of the Comprehensive Plan. Before adopting any such Plan, it shall hold at
least one public survey thereon.
      (2)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in
and an understanding of its recommendations, and to that end it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may elect.
      (3)   Members of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the Board,
may attend planning conferences, meetings of planning associations, or hearings
on pending planning legislation, and the Planning Board may by formal and
affirmative vote authorize payment within the Board's budget of the reasonable
traveling expenses incident to such attendance.
   (H)   Special committees. The Planning Board may from time to time establish
special committees to assist it in studying questions and problems. The Board,
however, may not delegate to such a committee any of its official powers and
duties.
   (I)   Act as the Board of Adjustment for all Land Usage Ordinances except
the High Impact Land Use Ordinance. The Board shall act in accordance with
state law. Each hearing shall follow rules applied to quasi-judicial
proceedings. Each decision shall be based upon competent, material, and
substantial evidence noted in the record of the proceeding. Each decision shall
be reduced to writing and reflect the Board's determination of contested facts
and their application to the applicable standards. The written decision shall
be signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the Board.
      (1)   Notice of hearings. When the Planning Board is assigned to conduct
a hearing, a notice shall be mailed to the person or entity whose request is
the subject of the hearing, to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the hearing if the owner did not initiate the request, to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing,
and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the local
development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the local
government may rely on the county tax listing to determine owners of property
entitled to mailed notice. Notice must be mailed at least 10 days, but no more
than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time period,
the local government shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the
site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway
right-of-way. The board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been
convened without further advertisement. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a
given date and a quorum of the board is not then present, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular board meeting without further advertisement.
      (2)   Variance authority. When unnecessary hardship would result from
carrying out the strict letter of an ordinance, the Board of Adjustment, by a
vote of four-fifths of its membership, may apply a different standard to any of
the provisions of the ordinance upon a showing of all of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. However, it shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the
absence of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. However, a hardship resulting
from personal circumstances, as well as hardship resulting from conditions that
are common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. However, the act of purchasing property with knowledge
that circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not
be regarded as self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved. Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any
allowed variance, provided that the conditions are reasonably related to the
variance.
      (3)   Appeals authority. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals from decisions of Planning Department officials charged with
enforcement of the development ordinances and may hear appeals arising out of
any other ordinance that regulates land use, except the High Impact Land Use
Ordinance and are subject to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person who is directly affected may appeal a decision to the
Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the
clerk to the Board. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for appeal.
         (b)   A county administrative official who has made a decision from
which someone wishes to appeal shall give written notice to the owner of the
property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who sought the
decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by
personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first class mail. If notice of
decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is received on the third
business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
         (c)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
         (d)   The official who made the decision shall transmit to the Board
all documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from is taken. During an appeal, the official who made the decision
(or their successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as
witness to the appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406. The official shall also
provide a copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property
that is the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
         (e)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from unless the official who made the
decision certifies to the Board of Adjustment after notice of appeal has been
filed that because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property or because the violation is transitory in
nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of the ordinance. In
that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining
order granted by a court.
         (f)   A member of the Board of Adjustment shall not participate in or
vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate an affected
person's constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
conflicts include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or an interest in the outcome of the
matter. If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that member
does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority
vote rule on the objection. If the majority vote favors allowing the challenged
member to participate, reasons for that vote shall be stated as part of the
written record of the proceeding.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-03; Am. Ord. passed 1-9-06; Am. Ord.
passed 5-18-09; Am. Ord. passed 5-19-14; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.05 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   Under the direction of the County Manager, the Planning Department shall
assist the County Commissioners, the Planning Board, the Inspections
Department, the Airport Authority, and the Economic Development Commission with
studies, advice, and preparation of plans.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.06 INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspections Department carries out the responsibilities set forth in
G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 11, G.S. § 160D-1104 with regard to enforcement of
the State Building Code and other laws relating to construction. In addition,
it enforces the other ordinances listed in G.S. § 160D-1104, as well as other
ordinances as assigned by the County Commissioners. Normally it is responsible
for issuing permits, making inspections of both new construction and existing
structures, issuing certificates of compliance, issuing orders to correct
violations, initiating legal actions against violators, and keeping records.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.07 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   The Economic Development Department formulates economic development projects
and promotes economic development of the area.
(Ord. passed 10-20-93; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.08 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. passed 5-15-23)
§ 153.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective May 15, 2023.
(Ord. passed 5-15-23)
CHAPTER 154: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
Section
   
154.01   Purpose and authority
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   General regulations
   
154.04   Plan preparation and approval procedures
   
154.05   Application requirements
   
154.06   Travel trailer park specifications
   
154.07   Registration
   
154.08   Minimum requirements
   
154.09   Variances
   
154.10   Amendments
   
154.11   Separability
   
154.12   Appeals
   
154.13   Conflict of interest
   
154.14   Effective date
 
   
154.99   Penalty
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Travel trailers have become an important factor in providing safe and
sound housing for visitors coming to the county. The increasing acceptance of
this type temporary home away from home is indicated by the constant number of
recreational vehicles visiting the county. To maintain a safe, sanitary
environment for occupants of RV parks, to protect the ecologically sensitive
mountains and streams, these regulations are provided.
   (B)   The following regulations for the protection of the public are hereby
adopted pursuant to authority granted in the provisions of G.S. § 160D-901.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPING TRAILER. A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, or travel use.
   COUNTY. Ashe County, North Carolina.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. Ashe County Commissioners.
   DEPENDENT TRAILER. A trailer which is dependent upon a service building for
toilet, shower and lavatory facilities.
   INDEPENDENT TRAILER. A trailer that has kitchen and bath facilities but does
not have the capability of disposing of water and sewage except as in § 
154.03(B).
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MOTOR HOME. A vehicular unit, designed to provide temporary living quarters,
built into as an integral part, or permanently attached to, a self-propelled
motor vehicle chassis or van. The vehicle must provide at least four of the
following facilities: cooking, refrigeration or icebox, self-contained toilet,
heating or air conditioning, a portable water supply system including a faucet
and sink, separate 110-125 volt electrical power supply, or an LP gas supply.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Ashe County Planning Board.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use that either
has its own motive power or is mounted on, or towed by, another vehicle. The
basic entities are camping trailer, fifth-wheel travel trailer, motor home,
travel trailer, and truck camper. This term shall not include a manufactured
home as defined in G.S. § 143-143.9(6). For the purpose of this ordinance,
“tiny homes/houses” and park models that do not meet the items listed above are
not considered recreational vehicles and should meet the standards of and be
permitted as residential structures.
   SELF-CONTAINED TRAILER. A trailer or motor home which can operate
independent of connections for water, sewer, and electric systems. It contains
a water flushed toilet, lavatory, bathing facilities, and kitchen sink, all of
which are connected to water storage and sewage holding tanks located within
the trailer.
   SHALL and WILL. Are mandatory.
   TRAILER SPACE. A parcel of land in a travel trailer park set aside for the
placement of a single trailer and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular unit mounted on wheels, designed to provide
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, and of a
size or weight that does not require a special highway movement permit when
towed by a motorized vehicle.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. A parcel of land upon which three or more spaces are
occupied or intended for occupancy by camping trailers, dependent trailers,
independent trailers, motor homes, truck camper, recreational vehicles, self-
contained trailers or travel trailers for transient dwelling purposes
regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such service. A park model
trailer requires a residential building permit, and therefore should be
considered a manufactured home. Short term rental at a venue (for example a
wedding) for guests of the event does not apply. Additionally, a camping
trailer, dependent trailer, independent trailer, motor home, recreational
vehicle, self-contained trailer or travel trailer located on the same parcel of
land for five calendar days without prior notification of the Planning
Department. This action constitutes a violation of this chapter and will
require a permit to be issued by the Planning Board. For the purpose of this
chapter TRAVEL TRAILER PARK and RV PARK have the same meaning.
   TRUCK CAMPER. A portable unit that is constructed to provide temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, consisting of a roof,
floor, and sides and is designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of
a pickup truck.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Travel trailers shall not hereafter be parked in any travel trailer
park unless they are provided plumbing and sanitation facilities installed in
conformity with these regulations and the requirements of the Appalachian
District Health Department, or their successor agency or agencies.
   (B)   Every independent travel trailer space shall provide a gas and
watertight connection for sewage disposal which shall be connected to an
underground sewage collection system discharging into a public or private
disposal system.
   (C)   No dependent travel trailer shall be parked at any time in a space
designed and designated for an independent travel trailer unless public toilet
and bath facilities are within 200 feet of the dependent trailer.
   (D)   Every travel trailer park that has spaces for dependent trailers shall
have at least one service building to provide necessary sanitation and laundry
facilities. The service building shall be of permanent construction with
interior finish of moisture resistant material which will withstand frequent
washing and cleaning. The service building shall be well lighted and ventilated
at all times.
   (E)   For the purpose of this chapter certain words or terms used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense
includes the present tense.
      (2)   The singular number includes the plural number and the plural
number includes the singular number.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.04 PLAN PREPARATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   No person shall construct, alter, or extend a travel trailer park within the
county unless they have a valid permit issued by the Planning Board in the name
of such a person for the specific travel trailer park. The Building Inspector
and the Appalachian District Health Department, or their successor agency or
agencies are authorized to refuse a permit, or to revoke a permit whenever upon
inspection they find that the proposed travel trailer park does not comply with
these regulations. No permit shall be issued until proper plans,
specifications, and supporting data have been presented to the Planning Board,
and approved by them upon determination that the travel trailer park shall be
constructed, altered, or extended to comply with these regulations.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of every trailer park, before providing space for the use and
accommodation of independent, dependent or self-contained travel trailers, RVs,
motor homes, camping trailer and truck camper shall make application for a
permit and file three sets of plans and specifications with the County Planning
Board. The plans and specifications shall be in detail as follows:
   (A)   Name and address of owner and/or authorized agent.
   (B)   Location and legal description of the travel trailer park property.
   (C)   Complete plans and specifications of the proposed park showing:
      (1)   A scaled plat of the plan for the park, indicating spaces, area, or
portion of the park for independent, dependent or self-contained travel
trailers, RVs, motor homes, camping trailer and truck camper. The scale of the
plat shall be not less than one inch per 100 feet.
      (2)   Size, location and specifications of park drainage system.
      (3)   Size, location and specifications of the water lines.
      (4)   Size, location and layout of the service building, sanitary
stations, and other proposed structures.
      (5)   A scaled layout of a typical travel trailer site.
      (6)   The location of roadways and walkways.
      (7)   The location of sewer lines, sewage disposal facility and riser
pipes.
      (8)   The location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
      (9)   Applications and plans shall bear the approval of the County
Planning Board.
      (10)   The issuance of a permit shall not constitute approval of any
violation of this chapter or of any county or state regulation.
      (11)   An approved set of plans and a copy of the permit shall be kept on
the park premises until the final inspection is made.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.06 TRAVEL TRAILER PARK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every travel trailer park shall contain at least three spaces. Travel
trailers shall only be located in approved spots.
   (B)   Each space shall consist of at least 2,000 square feet.
   (C)   Parking spaces sufficient to accommodate at least one motor and/or
camping vehicle shall be constructed within each space. No more than one
camping vehicle may be parked in any one space.
   (D)   All spaces developed adjacent to a public street or highway shall be
set back a minimum of 40 feet from the street or highway right-of-way.
   (E)   All spaces shall be located on sites with elevations that are not
susceptible to flooding. Spaces shall be graded to prevent any water from
ponding or accumulating within the park. Each space shall be graded to provide
adequate drainage away from the space.
   (F)   The park shall have all weather roads that directly abut each space.
All road rights-of-way shall be a minimum of 20 feet except that one-way roads
may have a minimum of 12 feet. In areas of heavy vehicular use, 30-foot rights-
of-way shall be required. No space shall have direct vehicular access to public
street or highway.
   (G)   The park shall be developed with proper drainage ditches. All banks
shall be sloped and seeded.
   (H)   Each park shall have a central structure or structures that will
provide separate toilet and shower facilities for both sexes. This structure
may also contain a retail sales counter and/or coin operated vending machines
for the park’s residents use only. All toilet, shower, lavatory, and laundry
facilities shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and kept in
good repair at all times. They shall be safely and adequately lighted, easily
and conveniently located.
   (I)   The water supply, sewage disposal, and sanitary facilities shall meet
or exceed the requirements of the Appalachian District Health Department, or
their successor agency or agencies.
      (1)   Sewage dumping stations shall be approved by the Appalachian
District Health Department, or their successor agency or agencies.
      (2)   No method of sewage disposal shall be installed, altered, or used
without the approval of the Appalachian District Health Department, or their
successor agency or agencies. All sewage waste from each park, including waste
from toilets, showers, bathtubs, lavatories, wash basins, sinks, and water
appliances not herein mentioned, shall be piped into the park's sewage system
or systems.
   (J)   The collection, storage, and disposal of garbage and refuse shall be
so managed as not to create a health hazard or damage to the environment.
   (K)   Each park shall provide ¼ acre of open park space for every 50 trailer
spaces in the park. This open park space may be utilized by the campers. The
park owner is responsible for the development and maintenance of open or park
space areas.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park or store a mobile home in a
travel trailer park. However, one mobile home may be allowed in a travel
trailer park to be used as an office and one mobile home to be used for a
residence of person or persons responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the travel trailer park.
   (M)   All buildings shall be constructed in accordance with the county
building codes
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.07 REGISTRATION.
   It shall be the duty of the operator of the travel trailer park to keep an
accurate register containing a record of all occupants of the park. The
operator shall keep the register available at all times for inspection by law
enforcement officials, whose duties necessitate acquisition of information
contained in the register. The register shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Name of the occupants of each space;
   (B)   Date entering and leaving the park;
   (C)   The license number of each vehicle (car, truck, camping vehicle,
etc.,) state of issuance, and make and type of equipment.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.08 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements,
adopted for promotion of the public health, safety, moral, and general welfare
of the public. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at variance with
the requirements of any other lawfully adopted regulations the most restrictive
or that imposing the higher standards shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.09 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the
provisions to this chapter would cause unnecessary hardships, the Board of
Adjustment may authorize a variance, if such variance can be made without
destroying the intent of this chapter. Variances thus authorized shall be
entered in writing in the official minutes of the Board of Adjustment with the
reasoning set forth on which the departure from this chapter was justified. All
requests for variances must be made in writing by the builder/developer.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.10 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may from time to time be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed by the County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall consider and make recommendations to the
County Commissioners concerning each proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.11 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.12 APPEALS.
   An applicant requesting approval of an travel trailer park who are aggrieved
by a decision by the Planning Department may appeal said decision to the Board
of Adjustment. The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Board of
Adjustment within 30 calendar days of receipt of notice of decision. If notice
of decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is received on the third
business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
   (A)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.13 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective September 18, 2023.
(Ord. passed 9-18-23)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-22-95; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-23)
CHAPTER 155: WATERSHED PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Authority and enactment
   
155.02   Jurisdictions
   
155.03   Exceptions to applicability
   
155.04   Repeal of existing watershed protection ordinance
   
155.05   Remedies
   
155.06   Severability
   
155.07   Effective date
   
155.08   Definitions
   
155.09   Word interpretation
   
155.10   Conflict of interest
Subdivision Regulations
   
155.15   General provisions
   
155.16   Subdivision application and review procedures
   
155.17   Subdivision standards and required improvements
   
155.18   Construction procedures
   
155.19   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions
Cross-reference:
   Residential subdivisions, see
Ch. 156
Watershed Area Use and Development
   
155.30   Establishment of watershed areas
   
155.31   Watershed areas—allowed and not allowed uses
   
155.32   Watershed areas—density and built- upon limits
   
155.33   Watershed areas—density averaging
   
155.34   Cluster development
   
155.35   Buffer areas required
   
155.36   Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
155.37   Application of regulations
   
155.38   Existing development
   
155.39   Watershed protection permit
   
155.40   Building permit required
   
155.41   Watershed occupancy permit
Public Health Regulations
   
155.50   Public health in general
   
155.51   Abatement
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.65   Watershed Administrator; duties
   
155.66   Appeal from the Watershed Administrator
   
155.67   Changes and amendments to the watershed protection ordinance
   
155.68   Public notice and hearing required
   
155.69   Planning Board will serve as Watershed Review Board
   
155.70   Rules of conduct for members
   
155.71   Powers and duties of the Watershed Review Board
   
155.72   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in G.S. Chapter 153A,
Article 6, Section 121, General Ordinance Making Power; and in G.S. Chapter
143, Article 21, Water and Air Resources, authorized local governments to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. In addition, G.S. § 160D-926 and G.S. § 143-214.5
specifically authorize local governments to enact and enforce water supply
watershed management regulations. The Governing Board of Ashe County hereby
ordains and enacts into law the following articles as the Water Supply
Watershed Protection Ordinance of Ashe County.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.02 JURISDICTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the areas designated as a
Water Supply Watershed by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission and
shall be defined and established on a water supply watershed protection map of
Ashe County, North Carolina which is adopted simultaneously herewith. The
watershed map and all explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies and is
hereby made a part of this chapter. This chapter shall be permanently kept on
file in the Ashe County Planning Department.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.03 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall repeal, modify, or amend any
federal or state law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining
thereto except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor
shall any provision of this chapter amend, modify, or restrict any provisions
of the Code of Ordinances of Ashe County (the “county”); however, the adoption
of this chapter shall and does amend any and all ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations of effect in the county at the time of the adoption of this chapter
that may be construed to impair or reduce the effectiveness of this chapter or
to conflict with any of its provisions.
   (B)   It is not intended that the provisions of this chapter interfere with
any easement, covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if any
provision of this chapter imposes greater restrictions or higher standards for
the use of a building or land, then such provision shall control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in §
155.09 below, is not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Expansions to existing development must meet the requirements of this
chapter, except single- family residential development or unless expansion is
part of common plan of development. In an expansion, the built-upon area of the
existing development is not required to be included in the density
calculations. Where there is a net increase of built upon area, only the area
of net increase is subject to this chapter. Where existing development is being
replaced with new built upon area, and there is net increase of built upon
area, only areas of net increase shall be subject to this chapter.
   (E)   If a nonconforming lot of record is not contiguous to any other lot
owned by the same party, then that lot of record shall not be subject to the
development restrictions of this chapter if it is developed for single-family
residential purposes. Local governments may require the combination of
contiguous nonconforming lots of record owned by same party to establish a lot
or lots that meet requirements in §
156.45(B) of the Residential Subdivisions Ordinance.
   (F)   Any lot or parcel created as part of a family subdivision after the
effective date of these rules shall be exempt from these rules if it is
developed for one single-family detached residence and if it is exempt from
local subdivision regulation. If a local government does not enforce
subdivision regulations, then that local government may or may not allow the
exemption for family subdivisions.
   (G)   Any lot or parcel created as part of any other type of subdivision
that is exempt from a local subdivision ordinance shall be subject to the land
use requirements (including impervious surface requirements) of these rules,
except that such a lot or parcel must meet the minimum buffer requirements to
the maximum extent practicable.
   (H)   An applicant may exceed the density limits in §
155.32 if all of the following circumstances apply:
      (1)   The property was developed prior to the effective date of the local
water supply watershed program.
      (2)   The property has not been combined with additional lots after
January 1, 2021.
      (3)   The property has not been a participant in a density averaging
transaction under G.S. § 143-214.5(d2).
      (4)   The current use of the property is nonresidential.
      (5)   In the sole discretion, and at the voluntary election, of the
property owner, the stormwater from all of the existing and new built-upon area
on the property is treated in accordance with all applicable local government,
state, and federal laws and regulations.
      (6)   The remaining vegetated buffers on the property are preserved in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.04 REPEAL OF EXISTING WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part carries forward by re-enactment, some of the Watershed
Protection Ordinance of Ashe County, North Carolina (adopted by the Board of
Commissioners on December 20, 1993, as amended), and it is not the intention to
repeal but rather to re-enact and continue in force such existing provisions so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are preserved and
may be enforced. All provisions of the Watershed Ordinance which are not re-
enacted herein are hereby repealed. All suits at law or in equity and/or all
prosecutions resulting from the violation of any ordinance provisions
heretofore in effect, which are now pending in any court of this state or of
the United States, shall not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption
of this chapter, but shall be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this
chapter had not been adopted; and any and all violations of the existing
Watershed Protection Ordinance, prosecutions for which have not yet been
instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and nothing in this chapter
shall be so construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any litigation or
prosecution now pending and/or which may heretofore have been instituted or
prosecuted.
§ 155.05 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to be in
violation of this chapter, the Ashe County Board of Commissioners may, in
addition to all other remedies available either in law or in equity, institute
a civil penalty in the amount of $500, action or proceedings to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation, to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises. In addition, the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission may assess civil penalties in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6A.
Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   If the Watershed Administrator finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he/she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He/she shall order discontinuance
of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of illegal
buildings or structures, or of additions, alterations or structural changes
thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions. If a ruling of the Watershed Administrator is
questioned, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal such ruling to the
Watershed Review Board within 30 days from receipt of the notice of
determination.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof that is
not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force on October 16, 2023.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.08 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular number
include the plural, and words used in the plural number include the singular,
unless the natural construction of the wording indicates otherwise.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of animal operations.
   BALANCE OF WATERSHED (BW). The area adjoining and upstream of the critical
area in a WS-II and WS-III water supply watershed. The BALANCE OF WATERSHED is
comprised of the entire land area contributing surface drainage to the stream,
river, or reservoir where a water supply intake is located.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. A structural or nonstructural management-based
practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non-point source inputs to
receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be
deemed to make them one building.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Impervious surface and partially impervious surface to the
extent that the partially impervious surface does not allow water to infiltrate
through the surface and into the subsoil. BUILT-UPON AREA does not include a
slatted deck; the water area of a swimming pool; a surface of number 57 stone,
as designated by the American Society for Testing and Materials, laid at least
four inches thick over a geotextile fabric; a trail as defined in G.S. § 113A-
85 that is either unpaved or paved as long as the pavement is porous with a
hydraulic conductivity greater than 0.001 centimeters per second (1.41 inches
per hour); or landscaping material, including, but not limited to, gravel,
mulch, sand, and vegetation, placed on areas that receive pedestrian or bicycle
traffic or on portions of driveways and parking areas that will not be
compacted by the weight of a vehicle, such as the area between sections of
pavement that support the weight of a vehicle (except as exempted by state
law).
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.  Cluster development means the grouping of buildings in
order to conserve land resources and provide for innovation in the design of
the project including minimizing stormwater runoff impacts. This term includes
nonresidential development as well as single-family residential and multi-
family developments. For the purpose of this chapter, planned unit developments
and mixed-use development are considered as CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The critical area is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
critical area if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck, etc.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount or nature of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area, or
which otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGING LANDFILL. A facility which requires a National Pollution
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount or nature of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area, or
which otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or that have established
a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as of the effective date of this
chapter.
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project, or
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by state
law, or
      (3)   Having an approved site specific of phased development plan as
authorized by state law.
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a family or families.
   FAMILY SUBDIVISION. Family subdivision means a division of a tract of land:
(a) to convey the resulting parcels, with the exception of parcels retained by
the grantor, to a relative or relatives as a gift or for nominal consideration,
but only if no more than one parcel is conveyed by the grantor from the tract
to any one relative; or (b) to divide land from a common ancestor among tenants
in common, all of whom inherited by intestacy or by will.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Any substance listed as such in: SARA Section 302,
Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act) Hazardous Substances, or Section 311 Discharge
of CWA (Clean Water Act).
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any nonresidential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 9. For the purpose of this
chapter, this term does not include composting facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of land that can be transferred separate from other parcels of
land.
   MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance that is not a minor variance as defined in this
chapter.
      (1)   The relaxation, by a factor of more than 10%, of any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard;
      (2)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to a
development proposal intended to qualify under the high density option.
   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection
rules that results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to 5% of any buffer,
density or built-upon area requirement under the high-density option; or that
results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to 10%, of any management
requirement under the low-density option. For variances to a vegetated setback
requirement, the percent variation shall be calculated using the footprint of
built-upon area proposed to encroach with the vegetated setback divided by the
total area of vegetated setback within the project.
   NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. A lot described by a plat or a deed that was
recorded prior to the effective date of local watershed protection regulations
(or their amendments) that does not meet the minimum lot size or other
development requirements of the statewide watershed protection rules.
   NONRESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been,
subdivided.
   PERENNIAL WATERBODY. A natural or man-made basin, including lakes, ponds,
and reservoirs, that stores surface water permanently at depths sufficient to
preclude the growth of non-hydrophilic rooted plants.
   PROTECTED AREA. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area of WS-
IV watersheds. The boundaries of the protected area are defined as within five
miles of and draining to the normal pool elevation of the reservoir or to the
ridgeline of the watershed; or within ten miles upstream and draining to the
intake located directly in the stream or river or to the ridgeline of the
watershed.
   QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person certified to perform stream determinations by
completing and passing the Surface Water Identification Training and
Certification (SWITC) course offered by the N.C. Div. of Water Resources at
N.C. State University.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.  Buildings constructed for human habitation such as
attached and detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes,
condominiums, townhouses, cottages, etc. and their associated outbuildings such
as garages, storage buildings, gazebos, etc. and customary home occupations.
   RESIDUALS. Any solid or semi-solid waste generated from a wastewater
treatment plant, water treatment plant or air pollution control facility
permitted under the authority of the Environmental Management Commission.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where: 1) no building contains
more than one dwelling unit; 2) every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
3) where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURE (SCM). A permanent structural device that is
designed, constructed, and maintained to remove pollutants from stormwater
runoff by promoting settling or filtration; or to mimic the natural hydrologic
cycle by promoting infiltration, evapo-transpiration, post-filtration
discharge, reuse of stormwater, or a combination thereof.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
except those exempt from subdivision regulation by G.S. § 160D-802(a)(1)
through (a)(5).
      (1)   The combination or recombinations of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of this chapter;
      (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   SURFACE WATERS. All waters of the state as defined in G.S. § 143-212 except
underground waters.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth), or physical deformities in such organisms or their off
spring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE. A permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Review Board (see §
155.69) relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management requirement
adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is incorporated into
this chapter.
   VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approved site-specific
development plan or an approved phased development plan. Refer to G.S. § 160D-
108 for more information.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic purpose
such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities such
as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and commercial boat
storage areas are not water dependent structures.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake) or alternatively, the geographic region
within which water drains to a particular river, stream or body of water.
   WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the county
responsible for administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   WILL. Is mandatory.
(Ord. passed 12-20-93; Am. Ord. passed - -97)
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.09 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust,
and company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word "structure" shall include the word "building."
   (E)   The word "lot" shall include the words, "plot," "parcel," or "tract."
   (F)   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (G)   The word "will" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.10 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
§ 155.15 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No subdivision plat of land within the Water Supply Watershed shall be
filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds until it has been approved in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. Likewise, the Clerk of
Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat if the
recording of such plat would conflict with this subchapter.
   (B)   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the acceptance by
the county or the public of the dedication of any street or other ground,
easement, right-of-way, public utility line, or other public facility shown on
the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
   (C)   All subdivisions within Public Water Supply Watersheds shall conform
to the mapping requirements contained in G.S. § 47-30.
   (D)   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of Ashe County after
the effective date of this chapter shall require a plat to be prepared,
approved, and recorded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.16 SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording with
the Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map to the Watershed
Administrator to determine whether or not the property is located within the
designated Water Supply Watershed. Subdivisions that are not within the
designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and may be recorded provided the Watershed Administrator initials the
vicinity map. Subdivisions within a WS-IV watershed are subject to the
provisions of this chapter only when an erosion and sedimentation plan is
required under the provisions of state law or approved local program, unless
another stormwater program applies. Local government should always be aware
that other post construction requirements may apply even when water supply
watershed protection requirements do not. Subdivisions within the designated
watershed area shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and all other
state and local requirements that may apply.
   (B)   Subdivision applications shall be filed with the Watershed
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form,
three copies of the plat, a description of the proposed method of providing
storm water drainage, and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the
Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board.
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator shall review the completed application for
both minor and major residential subdivisions. A major residential subdivision
will require the submission of recommendations to the Watershed Review Board
for further review and final action. The Watershed Review Board shall either
approve, approve conditionally or disapprove each application by a majority
vote of the members present and voting regarding a major residential
subdivision. A minor residential subdivision shall be reviewed by the Watershed
Administrator, who shall either approve, approve conditionally or disapprove
same as provided herein. The Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review
Board (as appropriate) shall take action within 45 days of submission of the
application. The Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board may
provide public agencies an opportunity to review and make recommendations.
However, failure of the agencies to submit their comments and recommendations
shall not delay the Administrator’s or the Board's action within the prescribed
time limit. Said public agencies may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The NCDOT district highway engineer with regard to proposed streets
and highways.
      (2)   The director of the Ashe County Health Department with regard to
proposed private water system or sewer systems normally approved by the Health
Department.
      (3)   The State Division of Water Resources with regard to proposed sewer
systems normally approved by the Division.
      (4)   The State Division of Energy, Mineral and Land Resources with
regard to engineered stormwater controls or stormwater management in general.
      (5)   The county for subdivisions located in Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction (ETJ) of a municipality.
      (6)   Local government entities responsible for proposed sewer and/or
water systems.
      (7)   Any other agency or official chosen by the Watershed Administrator
or Watershed Review Board to provide comment.
   (D)   If the Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board approves
the application, such approval shall be indicated on all copies of the plat by
the following certificate and signed by the Watershed Administrator:
   “Certificate of Approval for Recording
   I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the watershed protection
chapter and is approved by the Planning Board for recording in the Register of
Deeds office.
                                                  
   Date      Chairman, Planning Board
   Notice:   This property is located within a Public Water supply watershed -
development restrictions may apply.”
   (E)   If the Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board
disapproves or approves conditionally the application, the reasons for such
action shall be stated in writing to the applicant and entered in the minutes
of the Watershed Review Board. The subdivider may make changes and submit a
revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose of
review.
   (F)   As a condition for approval, all subdivision plats shall comply with
the requirements for recording of the County Register of Deeds.
   (G)   The plat shall be recorded within 30 days of approval. The subdivider
shall provide the Watershed Administrator with evidence the plat has been
recorded with the Register of Deeds within five working days after such
recording.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.17 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance with the
development standards contained in §
155.30 through §
155.41. Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for residential lots
may be utilized as a subdivision common area which will be designated on the
subdivision plat.
   (B)   For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area
shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is to be
developed.
   (C)   Storm water drainage facilities. The application shall be accompanied
by a description of the proposed method of providing stormwater drainage. The
subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts stormwater runoff away
from surface waters and incorporates stormwater control measures to minimize
water quality impacts, and meets any local requirements.
   (D)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a sedimentation and
erosion control plan has been submitted to and approved by the local agency
administering a sedimentation and erosion control ordinance approved by the
N.C. Division of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.18 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved by the
Watershed Administrator or the Watershed Review Board.
   (B)   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met. The subdivider, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Watershed Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.19 PENALTIES FOR TRANSFERRING LOTS IN UNAPPROVED SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located
within the jurisdiction of the county, thereafter subdivides land in violation
of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or
any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has
been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds, shall be guilty and all means necessary to remedy the
violation will be utilized. The description by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The
county may bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings,
issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with this
chapter. Such person may also be subject to other enforcement actions under §§
155.05 and/or
155.06.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
WATERSHED AREA USE AND DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED AREAS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to list and describe the watershed
areas herein adopted.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the county is hereby divided into the
following areas, as appropriate:
      (1)   Reddies River WS-II-BW (Balance of Watershed).
      (2)   WS-IV-CA (Critical Area).
      (3)   WS-IV-PA (Protected Area).
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.31 WATERSHED AREAS —ALLOWED AND NOT ALLOWED USES.
Activity/Use W S- II B W W S- IV C A W S- IV P A
Activity/Use                                W S- II B W W S- IV C A W S- IV P A
New landfills                               Yes         No          Yes
New permitted residual land application     Yes         No          Yes
New permitted petroleum contaminated soils  Yes         No          Yes
sites
NPDES General or Individual Stormwater      Yes         Yes         Yes
discharges
NPDES General Permit Wastewater Discharges  Yes         Yes         Yes
pursuant to 15A NCAC 02H .0127
NPDES Individual Permit trout farm          Yes         Yes         Yes
discharges
New NPDES Individual Permit domestic        No          Yes         Yes
treated wastewater discharge
New NPDES Individual Permit industrial      No          Yes         Yes
treated wastewater discharge
Non-process industrial waste                No          Yes         Yes
New industrial connections and expansions
to existing municipal discharge with        No          Yes         Yes
pretreatment program pursuant to 15A NCAC
02H .0904
Sewage                                      No c        Noc         Noc
Industrial waste                            No c        Noc         Noc
Other wastes                                No c        Noc         Noc
Groundwater remediation project dischargese Yes         Yes         Yes
Agriculturef                                Yes         Yes         Yes
Silvicultureg                               Yes         Yes         Yes
Residential developmenth                    Yes         Yes         Yes
Non-residential developmenthi               Yes         Yes         Yes
Non-point source pollutionk                 Yes         Yes         Yes
Animal operationsl                          Yes         Yes         Yes
Notes:
a   Permitted pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B.0104
b   Except non-process industrial discharges are allowed
c   Only allowed if specified in 15A NCAC 02B.0104
d   Not allowed if activity(ies) has/have adverse impact on human health
e   Where no other practical alternative exists
f   In WS-I watersheds and Critical Areas of WS-II, WS-III, and WS-IV
watersheds, agricultural activities conducted after 1/1/1993 shall maintain a
minimum 10 foot vegetated setback or equivalent control as determined by Soil
and Water Conservation Commission along all perennial waters indicated on most
recent version of USGS 1:24000 scale (7.5 minute) topographic maps or as
determined by local government studies
g   Subject to Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water Quality (02 NCAC
60C.0100 to .0209) Effective 4/1/2018
h   See density requirements in 15A NCAC 02B .0624
i   See different allowed and not allowed in this table
j   Watershed shall remain undeveloped except for following uses when they
cannot be avoided: power transmission lines, restricted access roads, and
structures associated with water withdrawal, treatment, and distribution of WS-
I waters. Built upon area shall be designed and located to minimize stormwater
runoff impact to receiving waters.
k   Non-Point Source pollution shall not have adverse impact, as defined in 15A
NCAC 02H.1002, on use as water supply or any other designated use
l   Deemed permitted, as defined in 15A NCAC 02T.0103 and permitted under 15A
NCAC 2H.0217
 
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.32 WATERSHED AREAS—DENSITY AND BUILT-UPON LIMITS.
   (A)   Project density. The following maximum allowable project densities and
minimum lot sizes shall apply to a project according to the classification of
the water supply watershed where it is located, its relative location in the
watershed, its project density, and the type of development:
 
                               Maximum Allowable Project Density or Minimum Lot
                               Size
               Location in the                                 High
Water Supply                   Low Density Development         Density Deve
Classification Watershed                                       lopment
                               Single-family   Non-residential
                               detached        and all other   All types
                               residential     residential
                               1 dwelling unit
                               (du) per 2
                               acres or 1 du
                               per 80,000      6% built-up on  6 to 24% built -
               Critical area   square foot lot area            upon area
                               excluding
                               roadway right-
                               of-way or 6%
WS- II                         built-upon area
                               1 du per 1 acre
                               or 1 du per
                               40,000 square
               Balance of      foot lot        12% built-up on 12 to 30% built
               Watershed       excluding       area            -upon area
                               roadway right-
                               of-way or 12%
                               built-upon area
                               1 du per one-
                               half acre or 1
                               du per 20,000
WS- IV         Critical area   square foot lot 24% built-upon  24 to 50% built
                               excluding       area            -upon area
                               roadway right-
                               of-way or 24%
                               built-upon area
                               1 du per one-
                               half acre or 1
                               du per 20,000
                               square foot lot
                               excluding       24% built-upon
                               roadway right-  area; or 36%
              Protected Area  of-way or 24%   built-up on     24 to 70% built
                               built-upon; or  area without    -upon area
                               3 dus per acre  curb and gutter
                               or 36% built-   street system
                               upon area
                               without curb
                               and gutter
                               street system
 
   (B)   Calculation of project density. The following requirements shall apply
to the calculation of project density:
      (1)   Project density shall be calculated as the total built-upon area
divided by the total project area;
      (2)   A project with "existing development," as defined in this chapter,
may use the calculation method in division (B)(1) or may calculate project
density as the difference of total built-upon area minus existing built-upon
area divided by the difference of total project area minus existing built-upon
area.
      (3)   Expansions to existing development shall be subject to 15A NCAC
02B.0624 except as excluded in Rule 15A NCAC 02B.0622(1)(d).
      (4)   Where there is a net increase of built-upon area, only the area of
net increase shall be subject to density and built upon area limits.
      (5)   Where existing development is being replaced with new built-upon
area, and there is a net increase of built-upon area, only the area of net
increase shall be subject to density and built upon area limits.
      (6)   Total project area shall exclude the following:
         (a)   Areas below the Normal High Water Line (NHWL); and
         (b)   Areas defined as "coastal wetlands" pursuant to 15A NCAC
07H.0205, herein incorporated by reference, including subsequent amendments and
editions, and available at no cost at http://reports.oah.state.nc.us/ncac.asp,
as measured landward from the NHWL.
      (7)   Projects under a common plan of development shall be considered as
a single project for purposes of density calculation except that on a case-by-
case basis, local governments may allow projects to be considered to have both
high and low density areas based on one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Natural drainage area boundaries;
         (b)   Variations in land use throughout the project; or
         (c)   Construction phasing.
   (C)   Low density projects. In addition to complying with the project
density requirements of division (A) of this section, low density projects
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Vegetated conveyances. Stormwater runoff from the project shall be
released to vegetated areas as dispersed flow or transported by vegetated
conveyances to the maximum extent practicable. In determining whether this
criteria has been met, the local government shall take into account site-
specific factors such as topography and site layout as well as protection of
water quality. Vegetated conveyances shall be maintained in perpetuity to
ensure that they function as designed. Vegetated conveyances that meet the
following criteria shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this
division:
         (a)   Side slopes shall be no steeper than 3:1 (horizontal to
vertical) unless it is demonstrated to the local government that the soils and
vegetation will remain stable in perpetuity based on engineering calculations
and on-site soil investigation; and
         (b)   The conveyance shall be designed so that it does not erode
during the peak flow from the ten-year storm event as demonstrated by
engineering calculations.
      (2)   Curb outlet systems. In lieu of vegetated conveyances, low density
projects shall have the option to use curb and gutter with outlets to convey
stormwater to grassed swales or vegetated areas. Requirements for these curb
outlet systems shall be as follows:
         (a)   The curb outlets shall be located such that the swale or
vegetated area can carry the peak flow from the ten-year storm and at a non-
erosive velocity;
         (b)   The longitudinal slope of the swale or vegetated area shall not
exceed 5% except where not practical due to physical constraints. In these
cases, devices to slow the rate of runoff and encourage infiltration to reduce
pollutant delivery shall be provided;
         (c)   The swale's cross section shall be trapezoidal with a minimum
bottom width of two feet;
         (d)   The side slopes of the swale or vegetated area shall be no
steeper than 3:1 (horizontal to vertical);
         (e)   The minimum length of the swale or vegetated area shall be 100
feet; and
         (f)   Low density projects may use treatment swales designed in
accordance with 15A NCAC02H.1061 in lieu of the requirements specified in
divisions (B)(2)(a) through (e) of this section.
   (D)   High density projects. In addition to complying with the project
density requirements of division (A) of this section, high density projects
shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Stormwater Control Measures (SCMs) shall be designed, constructed,
and maintained so that the project achieves either "runoff treatment" or
"runoff volume match" as those terms are defined in 15A NCAC 02B .0621;
      (2)   For high density projects designed to achieve runoff treatment, the
required storm depth shall be one inch. Applicants shall have the option to
design projects to achieve runoff volume match in lieu of runoff treatment;
      (3)   Stormwater runoff from off-site areas and Existing Development,
shall not be required to be treated in the SCM. Runoff from off-site areas or
existing development that is not bypassed shall be included in sizing of on-
site SCMs;
      (4)   SCMs shall meet the relevant Minimum Design Criteria set forth in
15A NCAC 02H.1050 through .1062; and
      (5)   Stormwater outlets shall be designed so that they do not cause
erosion downslope of the discharge point during the peak flow from the ten-year
storm event as shown by engineering calculations.
   (E)   Options for implementing project density. Local governments shall have
the following options in place of or in addition to the requirements of
division (A) above, as appropriate:
      (1)   Local governments may allow only low density development in their
water supply watershed areas in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Local governments may regulate low density single-family detached
residential development using the minimum lot size requirements, dwelling unit
per acre requirements, built-upon area percentages, or some combination of
these.
      (3)   Optional: 10/70 OPTION. Outside of WS-I watersheds and the critical
areas of WS-II, WS-III, and WS-IV watersheds, local governments may regulate
new development under the "10/70 option" in accordance with the following
requirements:
         (a)   A maximum of 10% of the land area of a water supply watershed
outside of the critical area and within a local government's planning
jurisdiction may be developed with new development projects and expansions of
existing development of up to 70% built-upon area;
         (b)   In water supply watersheds classified on or before August 3,
1992, the beginning amount of acreage available under this option shall be
based on a local government's jurisdiction as delineated on July 1, 1993. In
water supply watersheds classified after August 3, 1992, the beginning amount
of acreage available under this option shall be based on a local government's
jurisdiction as delineated on the date the water supply watershed
classification became effective. The acreage within the critical area shall not
be counted towards the allowable 10/70 option acreage;
         (c)   Projects that are covered under the 10/70 option shall comply
with the low density requirements set forth in division (C) above unless the
local government allows high density development, in which case the local
government may require these projects to comply with the high density
requirements set forth in division (D);
         (d)   The maximum built-upon area allowed on any given new development
project shall be 70%;
         (e)   A local government having jurisdiction within a designated water
supply watershed may transfer, in whole or in part, its right to the 10/70 land
area to another local government within the same water supply watershed upon
submittal of a joint resolution and approval by the Commission; and
         (f)   When the water supply watershed is composed of public lands,
such as National Forest land, local governments may count the public land
acreage within the watershed outside of the critical area in calculating the
acreage allowed under this provision.
      (4)   New development shall meet the development requirements on a
project-by-project basis except local governments may submit ordinances that
use density or built-upon area criteria averaged throughout the local
government's watershed jurisdiction instead of on a project-by-project basis
within the watershed. Prior to approval of the ordinance, the local government
shall demonstrate to the Commission that the provisions as averaged meet or
exceed the statewide minimum requirements and that a mechanism exists to ensure
the planned distribution of development potential throughout the local
government's jurisdiction within the watershed.
      (5)   Local governments may administer oversight of future development
activities in single-family detached residential developments that exceed the
applicable low density requirements by tracking dwelling units rather than
percentage built-upon area, as long as the SCM is sized to capture and treat
runoff from 1) all pervious and built-upon surfaces shown on the development
plan; and 2) any off-site drainage from pervious and built-upon surfaces, and
when an additional safety factor of 15% of built-upon area of the project site
is figured in.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.33 WATERSHED AREAS—DENSITY AVERAGING.
   An applicant may average development density on up to two noncontiguous
properties for purposes of achieving compliance with the water supply watershed
development standards if all of the following circumstances exist:
   (A)   The properties are within the same water supply watershed. However, if
one of the properties is located in the critical area of the watershed, the
critical area property shall not be developed beyond the applicable density
requirements for its classification.
   (B)   Overall project density meets applicable density or stormwater control
requirements under 15A NCAC 2B.0200.
   (C)   Vegetated setbacks on both properties meet the minimum statewide water
supply watershed protection requirements.
   (D)   Built upon areas are designed and located to minimize stormwater
runoff impact to the receiving waters, minimize concentrated stormwater flow,
maximize the use of sheet flow through vegetated areas, and maximize the flow
length through vegetated areas.
   (E)   Areas of concentrated density development are located in upland areas
and, to the maximum extent practicable, away from surface waters and drainage
ways.
   (F)   The property or portions of the properties that are not being
developed will remain in a vegetated or natural state and will be managed by a
homeowners' association as common area, conveyed to a local government as a
park or greenway, or placed under a permanent conservation or farmland
preservation easement unless it can be demonstrated that the local government
can ensure long-term compliance through deed restrictions and an electronic
permitting mechanism. A metes and bounds description of the areas to remain
vegetated and limits on use shall be recorded on the subdivision plat, in
homeowners' covenants, and on individual deeds. Any such limitations or
restrictions on use shall be irrevocable.
   (G)   Development permitted under density averaging and meeting applicable
low density requirements shall transport stormwater runoff by vegetated
conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
   (H)   A special use permit shall be obtained from the local Board of
Adjustment to ensure that both properties considered together meet the
standards of the Watershed Protection Ordinance and that potential owners have
record of how the watershed regulations were applied to the properties.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.34 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Cluster development is allowed in all Watershed Areas [except WS-I] under
the following conditions:
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development project; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments in §
155.32. Density or built-upon area for the project shall not exceed that
allowed for the critical area, balance of watershed or protected area,
whichever applies.
   (B)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow, maximize the use of sheet flow through vegetated areas, and
maximize the flow length through vegetated areas.
   (C)   Areas of concentrated density development shall be located in upland
area and as far as practicable from surface waters and drainage ways.
   (D)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. The title to the open space area shall be conveyed either to an
incorporated homeowners association for management; to a local government for
preservation as a park or open space; or to a public or to a conservation
organization for preservation in a permanent easement. Where a property
association is not incorporated, a maintenance agreement binding upon all
property owners within the development shall be filed with the Register of
Deeds.
   (E)   Cluster developments that meet the applicable low density requirements
shall transport stormwater runoff by vegetated conveyances to the maximum
extent practicable.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.35 BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A minimum 100-foot vegetative buffer is required for all new
development activities that exceed the low density option; otherwise, a minimum
30-foot vegetative buffer for development activities is required along all
perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000
(7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local government
studies. Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   Where USGS topographic maps do not distinguish between perennial and
intermittent streams, an on-site stream determination may be performed by an
individual qualified to perform such stream determinations.
   (C)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water dependent
structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs, and security lights
which result in only diminutive increases in impervious area and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practical alternative
exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff
away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater Best
Management Practices. Any such development must obtain a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.36 RULES GOVERNING THE INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed areas, as
shown on the Watershed Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following either
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof, such lines
shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   (B)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries. However, a
surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be submitted to the
county as evidence that one or more properties along these boundaries do not
lie within the watershed area.
   (C)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than
25 feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area boundaries
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed map. Any
ambiguities should be resolved in favor of locating built-upon surface area in
the least environmentally sensitive area of the project.
   (D)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of 25
feet or less from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area
boundaries shall be construed to be the lot line.
   (E)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Watershed Administrator shall
interpret the Watershed Map as to location of such boundaries. This decision
may be appealed to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.37 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (B)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included in the area required for another building.
   (C)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein
specified, except as permitted in §
155.38.
   (D)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.38 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, may be continued and
maintained subject to the provisions provided herein. Expansions to structures
classified as existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter,
however, the built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be
included in the built-upon calculations. Please see §
155.32(B) Calculation of project density. This section deals with all existing
development as defined in the EMC rules. All existing development, whether or
not it meets the statewide minimum standards, is exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   (A)   Uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter where such use of the land is not permitted to be
established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. Such uses
may be continued except as follows:
      (1)   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it shall
not thereafter revert to any prohibited use.
      (2)   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use.
      (3)   When such use ceases for a period of at least one year, it shall
not be reestablished.
   (B)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing building
or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this chapter
that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed, except
that there are no restrictions in single family residential development,
provided:
      (1)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within two years of such damage.
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.39 WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Except for single family residential development, no building or
built-upon area shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor
shall any building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any
building or land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by
the Watershed Administrator. No watershed protection permit shall be issued
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the
Watershed Administrator. The application shall include a completed application
form and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Watershed
Administrator shall be included.
   (C)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the Watershed
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit or
watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant within
12 months from the date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.40 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No permit required under the North Carolina State Building Code shall be
issued for any activity for which a watershed protection permit is required
until that permit has been issued.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.41 WATERSHED OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue a watershed occupancy Permit
(WSOP) certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met prior to
the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved and/or
prior to the change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   A watershed occupancy permit, either for the whole or part of a
building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a watershed
permit and shall be issued or denied within ten business days after the
erection or structural alterations of the building. The applicant should notify
the Watershed Administrator and request the issued WSOP when building is
complete.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue a watershed occupancy permit certifying
that all requirements of this chapter have been met coincident with the
watershed protection permit.
   (D)   If the watershed occupancy permit is denied, the Watershed
Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for
denial.
   (E)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Watershed Administrator has
approved and issued a watershed occupancy permit.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
PUBLIC HEALTH REGULATIONS
§ 155.50 PUBLIC HEALTH IN GENERAL.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.51 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall monitor land use activities within
the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water
quality.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall report all findings to the Watershed
Review Board. The Watershed Administrator may consult with a public agency or
official and request recommendations. The Watershed Administrator may also
coordinate with local inspections department, since local governments can abate
most threatening nuisances.
   (C)   Where the Watershed Review Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition
and/or violation.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.65 WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   The county shall appoint a Watershed Administrator, who shall be duly sworn
in. It shall be the duty of the Watershed Administrator to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter as follows:
   (A)   The Watershed Administrator shall issue watershed protection permits
and watershed occupancy permits as prescribed herein. A record of all permits
shall be kept on file and shall be available for public inspection during
regular office hours of the Administrator.
   (B)   The Watershed Administrator shall serve as clerk to the Watershed
Review Board.
   (C)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to
the Local Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance and shall provide copies
of all amendments upon adoption to the Stormwater Branch of the Division of
Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources.
   (D)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the jurisdiction's
use of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of WS-II,
WS-III and WS-IV watersheds may be developed with new development at a maximum
of 70% built-upon surface area. Records for each watershed shall include the
total acres of non-critical watershed area, total acres eligible to be
developed under this option, total acres approved for this development option,
and individual records for each project with the following information:
location, number of developed acres, type of land use and stormwater management
plan (if applicable).
   (E)   The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter, exercising in the fulfillment of the
Administrator’s responsibility the full police power of the county. The
Watershed Administrator, or duly authorized representative, may enter any
building, structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty
imposed by this chapter.
   (F)   The Watershed Administrator shall keep a record of variances to the
local Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance.
   (G)   The Watershed Administrator is responsible for ensuring that
stormwater control measures are inspected at least once a year and shall keep a
record of SCM inspections.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.66 APPEAL FROM THE WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Watershed Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Review
Board.
   (B)   An appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Review Board within 30 days from the date the order,
interpretation, decision or determination is made. All appeals must be made in
writing stating the reasons for appeal. Following submission of an appeal, the
Watershed Administrator shall transmit to the Watershed Review Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Watershed
Review Board after the notice of appeal has been filed with the Administrator,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate of approval for recording, a
stay would in the opinion of the Administrator cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Watershed Review Board or by a
court of record on application of notice of the officer from whom the appeal is
taken and upon due cause shown.
   (D)   The Watershed Review Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the
appeal and give notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within
reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney. All appeals of Watershed Administrator decisions shall follow the
procedures for appeals of administrative decisions in G.S. § 160D-405.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.67 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS TO THE WATERSHED PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, on its own motion or on petition, after
public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify the watershed
regulations and restrictions as described herein.
   (B)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations. If no recommendation has
been received from the Watershed Review Board within 60 days after submission
of the proposal to the Chair of the Watershed Review Board, the County
Governing Board may proceed as though a favorable report had been received.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Commissioners adopt such
amendments, supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the
watershed protection rules as adopted by the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the N.C. Division of Energy,
Mineral, and Land Resources.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.68 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the County Governing Board shall
hold a public hearing on the proposed changes. Notice of the public hearing
shall be given once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper
having general circulation in the area. The notice shall be published for the
first time not less than ten nor more than 25 days before the date for the
hearing.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.69 PLANNING BOARD WILL SERVE AS WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   The Ashe County Planning Board, who are duly appointed by the Board of
Commissioners to serve three-year terms and eligible for reappointment, will
serve as the Ashe County Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.70 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   Members of the Board may be removed by the Board of Commissioners for cause,
including violation of the rules stated below:
   (A)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the Board.
   (B)   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination of any case in which that member is personally or financially
interested. A Board member shall not have a “financial interest” in a case when
a decision in the case will:
      (1)   Cause that member or spouse to experience a direct financial
benefit or loss, or
      (2)   Will cause a business in which the member or spouse owns a 10% or
greater interest, or is involved in a decision-making role, to experience a
direct financial benefit or loss. A Board member shall have a “personal
interest” in a case when it involves a member of the immediate family (i.e.
parent, spouse, or child).
   (C)   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the public hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the Watershed Administrator
or any other member of the Board, its secretary or clerk prior to the hearing.
   (D)   The intent is to prohibit members of the Board from acting in
situations where they have a conflict of interest in a manner similar to the
prohibition in G.S. § 14-234(c)(1). Please also see G.S. § 160D-109 – standards
for conflicts of interest for local government development decisions.
   (E)   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgement of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   (F)   Members of the Board shall give notice to the Board Chair at least 48
hours prior to the hearing of any potential conflict of interest which the
member has in a particular case before the Board.
   (G)   No Board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application
or appeal unless the member had attended the public hearing on that application
or appeal.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.71 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Administrative review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and
decide appeals from any decision or determinations made by the Watershed
Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter,
and may review major variance requests and make recommendations to the
Environmental Management Commission regarding the same. In addition, the County
shall notify and allow 60 days for all other local governments having
jurisdiction in the designated watershed where the variance is being
considered.
      (1)   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtainable from the Watershed Administrator and shall include the following
information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least one inch to 40 feet,
indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is proposed; any
existing or proposed structures; parking areas and other built-upon areas;
surface water drainage. The site plan shall be neatly drawn and indicate north
point, name and address of person who prepared the plan, date of the original
drawing, and an accurate record of any later revisions.
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application.
         (c)   Evidence or proposed witness testimony that tends to support a
finding that each of the factors listed in division (B)(3), below, are met.
      (2)   The Watershed Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed and the entity using the water
supply for consumption. Such notice shall include a description of the variance
being requested. Local governments receiving notice of the variance request may
submit comments to the Watershed Administrator prior to a decision by the
Watershed Review Board. Such comments shall become a part of the record of
proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      (3)   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall
make the following three findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent
record of the case, and shall include the factual reasons on which they are
based.
         (a)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Board must
find that the five following conditions exist:
            1.   If the applicant complies with the provisions of the
ordinance, the applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make
reasonable use of, the property. Merely proving that the variance would permit
a greater profit to be made from the property will not be considered adequate
to justify the Board in granting a variance. Moreover, the Board shall consider
whether the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the
ordinance that will make possible the reasonable use of the property.
            2.   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship.
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant's
property, such as its size, shape, or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property.
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the ordinance, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of the ordinance, and then comes to the Board
for relief.
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant's property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the ordinance and preserves its spirit.
         (c)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not
grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
      (4)   In granting the variance, the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of
the purpose of this chapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or
use of property is granted, such construction, alteration or use shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan.
      (5)   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      (6)   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be
considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire if a building permit
or watershed occupancy permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant
within six months from the date of the decision.
      (7)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions; and
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (8)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental Quality
Commission for its review as follows:
         (a)   Subdivision approval. See §§
155.15 through
155.19.
         (b)   Public health. See §§
155.50 and
155.51.
         (c)   Approval of all development greater than the low density option.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
§ 155.72 APPEALS FROM THE WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board must be filed with the appropriate
Superior Court within 30 days from the date of the Board’s written decision.
The decisions by the Superior Court will be in the manner of certiorari.
(Ord. passed 10-16-23)
CHAPTER 156: RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Authority
   
156.03   Jurisdiction
   
156.04   Purpose
   
156.05   Word interpretation
   
156.06   Definitions
   
156.07   Separability
Planning Board Review
   
156.15   Preliminary plat review and approval
   
156.16   Building permits
   
156.17   Recording of plats
   
156.18   Duty of the Register of Deeds
Procedures for Review and Approval
   
156.25   Plat required on any residential subdivision of land
   
156.26   Minor residential subdivision
   
156.27   Major residential subdivision
   
156.28   Submission of preliminary plat
   
156.29   Specifications for preliminary plat with subdividing
   
156.30   (Reserved)
   
156.31   Phased developments
   
156.32   Submission of final plat
   
156.33   Approval of final plat
   
156.34   Appeals
   
156.35   Advisory opinion
   
156.36   Staff approval of a minor residential subdivision
General Requirements and Minimum Standards of Design
   
156.45   General requirements
   
156.46   Requirements and design standards for private roads (County standard)
Planned Unit Developments
   
156.47   Authority
   
156.48   Definition
   
156.49   Purpose
   
156.50   Minimum requirements
Permanent Reference Points and Improvements
   
156.55   Permanent reference points
   
156.56   Installation of improvements
   
156.57   Deferment of improvements
Variances
   
156.65   Variances
   
156.66   Conflicts of interest
   
156.67   Effective date
 
   
156.98   Injunctive relief and other equitable remedies
   
156.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions in watershed protection area, see §§
155.15 -
155.19
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ashe County Residential
Subdivision Chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.02 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. §160D-801, the County
Commissioners of Ashe County do hereby ordain and enact into law the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.03 JURISDICTION.
   On and after the date of adoption, this chapter shall govern each and every
residential subdivision of land for the purposes of the development of
residential subdivisions within Ashe County (referred to hereafter as the
“county”) and outside the jurisdiction of any incorporated municipality.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to guide the development of residential
subdivisions within the county by facilitating an orderly system for their
design, layout, and development.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.05 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be interpreted
as follows:
   (A)   The word COUNTY shall mean Ashe County, North Carolina.
   (B)   The words COUNTY COMMISSIONERS shall mean the Board of County
Commissioners of Ashe County, North Carolina.
   (C)   The words PLANNING BOARD shall mean the planning board of Ashe County,
North Carolina.
   (D)   The word CHAPTER shall mean the Ashe County Residential Subdivision
Ordinance.
   (E)   The word REGULATION shall mean the Ashe County Residential Subdivision
Ordinance.
   (F)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (G)   The word SHALL is mandatory.
   (H)   The words REGISTER OF DEEDS shall mean the Office of the Register of
Deeds for Ashe County, North Carolina.
   (I)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL, TRACT, and SITE.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE (MINIMUM). A line parallel with the property line
located no closer than ten feet from the property line and designating an area
bordering the property lines in which no building or part thereof shall be
placed.
   EASEMENT. A strip of land designated by the property owner for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation, or others. Easements shall be
created either by a written document recorded with the Register of Deeds or by
being shown on a plat recorded with the Register of Deeds.
   LOT. A portion of a residential subdivision no less than one acre in size,
intended as a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both.
   MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. Any residential subdivision with eight lots
or greater, or requiring the dedication of a public or private road.
   MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. Any residential subdivision with seven or
fewer lots and not requiring the dedication of a public or private road or
variances. One phase of a phased development cannot be considered a MINOR
RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION unless the entire development is not more than 10 lots.
As provided in §
156.36, MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS may be approved by Planning Staff.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT. A residential subdivision that is developed in phases
and meets the requirements of §
156.31.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which has been or is to be
subdivided.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving two or fewer lots, buildings, building
sites, or other divisions of land and not intended for public use.
   PRIVATE ROAD, COUNTY STANDARD (or private road). A road constructed in
accordance with the provisions of §
156.46.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A residential subdivision shall include all
divisions of a tract of land into two or more lots for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale, or building development. Such lots shall not be
smaller than one acre, the execution of a security interest, such as a deed of
trust, for a portion of a tract of land which results in two or more persons,
firms or corporations having the potential to convey ownership of portions of
the existing tract creates a RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION for purposes of this
chapter. The following shall not be included within this definition nor be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   The division of land solely among members of the same family, who
are in any degree of lineal kinship or within three degrees of collateral
kinship to the grantor by any method of transfer except where the parties
contemplate development for resale. By way of example, such degrees of kinship
include children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, parents, grandparents,
brothers and sisters, uncles and aunts, and nieces and nephews, as described
under G.S. §104A-1. Any transfer of the resulting lots within three years after
division of the land may be considered a RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION of land unless
transfer of such lots is given approval by a majority vote of the Ashe County
Planning Board, to which the applicant for Planning Board approval shall have
shown that there was a change in the family situation, such as divorce, a death
in the family, or another unexpected issue which created the need for such
transfer. Additionally, if it is discovered this exemption was utilized to
circumvent any Ashe County Land Use Ordinance, the division of land shall be
considered a RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION and deemed a violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The combination or recombination of portions of previous platted
lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   The division of land by court order or court-approved partition.
      (4)   The division of land for agricultural purposes such as the
production of crops, livestock, or poultry. “Agricultural land” shall be
defined in this chapter as it is defined in G.S. §105-277.2.
      (5)   The division of land for commercial purposes meaning all purposes
other than single-family residential.
      (6)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (7)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose area is two
acres, where no street right-of-way dedication is involved, and where the
resultant lots meet or exceed the requirements of this chapter.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land designated by the owner or acquired by another
authority by which other persons may legally pass, and on which a road and/or
utilities may be constructed.
   ROAD, STATE STANDARD. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for
vehicular traffic on which is constructed a road which meets the specifications
and requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. The division and/or development of land intended
to support the erection or placement of a structure for the use of any one
single family as a temporary or permanent residence.
   TRAVEL AREA. That area of a road which is stoned or paved in accordance with
§
156.46(B)(3), and which is intended for vehicular travel.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord.
passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 7- -07; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 12-
19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.07 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
PLANNING BOARD REVIEW
§ 156.15 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Unless otherwise noted, no real property within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be subdivided and offered for sale or a plat therefor recorded
until a preliminary and final plat have been reviewed and approved by the
planning staff or the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.16 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No land disturbing activities may be commenced, nor any utilities or
other improvements may be constructed in a residential subdivision until the
plan for development has been approved by the planning staff or Planning Board,
as appropriate. Such preliminary approval shall in no way alter the
requirements. That the final plat be approved by the planning staff or the
Planning Board prior to the sale of land in the development or the recording of
a plat.
   (B)   No permit for any building or structure will be issued upon any land
requiring approval as a residential subdivision under the conditions set forth
in this chapter unless a final plat is recorded with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.17 RECORDING OF PLATS.
   No residential subdivision plat of land within the county's jurisdiction
shall be filed or recorded until it has been submitted to and approved by the
planning staff or the Planning Board, and such approval is entered in writing
on the face of the plat by the designated representative of the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.18 DUTY OF THE REGISTER OF DEEDS.
   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a residential
subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the county that has
not been approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 156.25 PLAT REQUIRED ON ANY RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Whenever any residential subdivision of land takes place for the purposes of
the creation of a residential subdivision, a final plat shall be prepared,
approved, and recorded as required by the provisions of G.S. §47-30 and this
chapter. To secure such approval, the subdivider shall follow the procedures
established in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.26 MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   Procedures set forth here for handling applications for planning staff
approval of minor subdivisions are intended to simplify processing of routine
small subdivisions with due regard to protection of the public interest.
(Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.27 MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   Approval of major subdivisions shall be by the Planning Board in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.28 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Staff review. The developer/subdivider seeking to create a residential
subdivision shall submit one copy of a preliminary plat meeting the
requirements of this chapter to the planning staff, which shall review such
plat to determine if it does or does not qualify as a minor residential
subdivision and if it otherwise does or does not meet the requirements of this
chapter. If the planning staff determines that the preliminary plat does
qualify as a minor residential subdivision and does meet all of the
requirements of this chapter, the planning staff may approve the preliminary
plat. The Planning Board or their designated representative, will receive one
copy of the plat at least 15 working days before the meeting of the Planning
Board at which it is to be reviewed. Prior to the meeting and after planning
staff review, three copies shall be submitted to the Planning Board. Either the
developer or an appointed representative shall be present at the meeting when a
plat is considered by the Planning Board in order to answer Board questions and
facilitate a timely action by the Board.
   (B)   Planning Board review. If planning staff determines that the
preliminary plat does not qualify as a minor residential subdivision, the
developer/subdivider shall submit three copies of the preliminary plat to the
Planning Board or its designated representative at least 15 working days before
the meeting of the Planning Board at which it is to be reviewed. Either the
developer or an appointed representative shall be present at the meeting when a
plat is to be considered by the Planning Board in order to answer questions and
facilitate timely action by the Planning Board.
   (C)   After receiving approval of the preliminary plat by the planning staff
or Planning Board, the subdivider (developer) may proceed to construct the
proposed roads, add utilities and other residential subdivision improvements
(except buildings) in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and as
shown on the approved preliminary plat. No work on residential subdivision
roads or other improvements shall be commenced before approval of the
preliminary plat.
   (D)   Fees. The developer shall pay an inspection fee of an amount specified
from time to time by the County Commissioners. Half of the fee shall be paid at
the time of submission of the preliminary plat (the fee shall be paid before
the plat will be placed on the Planning Board agenda); the remainder shall be
paid at submission of the final plat. Contact the County Inspections Department
for a schedule of fees.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.29 SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT WITH SUBDIVIDING.
   The preliminary plat shall be at a scale of 200 feet to 1 inch or larger and
shall be on a sheet with minimum measurements of 18" x 24". If the size and
shape of the property is such that an 18" x 24" sheet will not accommodate the
entire tract, a larger size may be used. Under no circumstances shall a
preliminary plat be at a scale of smaller than 1" = 200'. The following
information shall be required to the extent applicable.
   (A)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed residential
subdivision with the surrounding areas.
   (B)   The location of existing property lines, streets, buildings,
watercourses, transmission lines, sewers, bridges, water lines, and public
utility easements.
   (C)   Boundaries of the tract shown with metes and bounds and acreage.
   (D)   Access right-of-way from a state road. Due to ingress and egress of
emergency vehicles. The access right-of-way from a state road to a private
road, utilized to gain entry to a subdivision, shall meet the design standards
for private roads (county standard).
   (E)   Names of adjoining property owners and/or residential subdivisions,
with deed references.
   (F)   Proposed streets, street names, rights-of-way, roadway widths,
approximate grades, curve radii, and proposed stormwater drainage facilities.
   (G)   Other proposed rights-of-way or easements showing locations, widths
and purposes.
   (H)   Proposed lot lines with metes and bounds, lot numbers, and acreage.
   (I)   Proposed utility layouts (sewer, water, electricity, phone, cable)
showing connections to existing systems or plans for central water system or
package sewage system, or designation for individual water and sewage.
   (J)   Proposed parks, open spaces, or any other public areas.
   (K)   Name of owner of record, developer, engineer, and professional
surveyor.
   (L)   Title, date, north point, and graphic scale.
   (M)   If applicable, the relationship with floodway and floodplain as
delineated by the county floodway boundary and flood insurance rate maps. Base
flood elevation data shall be provided for each separate lot which lies within
a special flood hazard area. An elevation reference mark shall also be set
within each lot which lies within a special flood hazard zone per Ch. 151 Flood
Damage Prevention. Such reference marks shall be transferred from FEMA flood
insurance study elevation marks, or other acceptable method.
   (N)   Whenever land-disturbing activity that will disturb more than one acre
is undertaken on a tract, the person conducting the land-disturbing activity
shall install erosion and sedimentation control devices and practices that are
sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land-disturbing activity
within the boundaries of the tract during construction upon and development of
the tract, and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent ground cover
sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of construction or development
within a time period to be specified by rule of the Commission, shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat.
   (O)   When applicable, a note to declare that individual lots have not been
approved by the Appalachian Regional Health Department or other appropriate
governmental authority as to suitability for the installation of wells, and/or
septic/sewer systems.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23; Am. Ord. passed 2-19-24) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.30 (RESERVED).
§ 156.31 PHASED DEVELOPMENTS.
   If a developer proposes that a residential subdivision will be constructed
in phases, the following procedure shall apply.
   (A)   A master plan showing the entire proposed residential subdivision and
the phases of the development, proposed type and location of utilities, and
proposed development timetable shall be submitted to the Planning Board for
approval.
   (B)   Each phase of development shall be preceded by submission and approval
of a preliminary plat as outlined in §
156.28, unless such plat submission is waived by the Planning Board. The master
plan may be submitted prior to or simultaneously with the submission of the
preliminary plat for the first phase of development.
   (C)   As each phase is completed, a final plat must be submitted and
approved for that phase as outlined in §
156.31 and §
156.32.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.32 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT.
   Unless a final plat is submitted to the planning staff or Planning Board
within 12 months from the date on which the preliminary plat was approved. Any
actions taken by the planning staff or Planning Board on the preliminary plat
shall become void and of no effect, and shall require the resubmission of the
preliminary plat to the planning staff or Planning Board for reconsideration.
Either the developer or an appointed representative shall be present when a
plat is considered by the planning staff in order to answer staff questions and
facilitate timely action by the staff. One copy of the final plat shall be
submitted to the planning staff at least 15 working days before the meeting of
the Planning Board at which time the plat is to be reviewed. Prior to the
meeting and after planning staff review, three copies of the final plat review
together with the plat fee shall be submitted to the Planning Board. Either the
developer or an appointed representative shall be present at the meeting when a
plat is considered by the Planning Board in order to answer Board questions and
facilitate timely action by the Board.
   (A)   Final plat. The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plan which the subdivider proposes to record provided that
such portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter. The final plat shall
be at a scale of 200 feet to 1 inch or larger and shall be on a sheet with
minimum measurements of 18" x 24" and maximum measurements of 21" x 30". Under
no circumstances shall a preliminary plat be at a scale of smaller than 1" =
200'. The final plat shall show as applicable the following:
      (1)   A vicinity map showing the location of the residential subdivision
in relation to the surrounding area.
      (2)   The right-of-way lines and easements of all streets and roads (with
names shown), and access to a state road.
      (3)   Lot lines and lot numbers metes and bounds and acreage.
      (4)   If applicable, the relationship with floodway and flood plain as
delineated by the county floodway boundary and flood insurance rate maps. Base
flood elevation data shall be provided for each separate lot which lies within
a special flood hazard area. An elevation reference mark shall also be set
within each lot which lies within a special flood hazard area per
Ch. 151 Flood Damage Prevention. Such reference marks shall be transferred from
FEMA flood insurance study elevation marks, or other acceptable method. Areas
inside the base flood elevation levels shall be marked “This area unsuitable
for residential construction. Well and/or septic systems may be placed in this
area if approved by the Appalachian Regional Health Authority or other
Governmental authority for the installation of wells and/or septic/sewer
systems.”
      (5)   Sufficient data to determine readily and be reproducible on the
ground, the location, bearing, and length of every street line, lot line,
boundary line, and block line whether curved or straight.
      (6)   Accurate location and description of all monuments, markers, and
block tie lines.
      (7)   The names and locations of adjoining residential subdivisions and
streets, and the location and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided property,
including water areas, with deed references.
      (8)   Title, date, name, and location of residential subdivision, graphic
scale, and true north point.
      (9)   Name of owner of record, developer, engineer, and professional
surveyor.
      (10)   When applicable, a note to declare that individual lots have not
been approved by the Appalachian Regional Health Department or other
appropriate governmental authority as to suitability for the installation of
wells, and/or septic/sewer systems.
   (B)   Reservations for easements, rights-of-way and areas to be dedicated to
public uses or sites for other than residential use shall be shown on the plat
with notes stating their purposes.
   (C)   Reference shall be made on final plat to deed book and page number of
recorded restrictive covenants if any.
   (D)   The following certifications or their equivalent, shall be shown on
the final plat as applicable:
   Certificate of Approval of Recording
I hereby certify that the residential subdivision plat shown hereon has been
found to comply with the residential subdivision ordinance of Ashe County,
North Carolina, with the exception of such variances, if any, as are noted in
the Minutes of the Planning Board and are recorded on this plat and that this
plat has been approved by the Ashe County Planning Staff or Planning Board on
                         for recording in the office of the Ashe County
Register of Deeds.
                                                          
   Date      Ashe County Planning Director
   Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, and that the property is within the regulatory jurisdiction
of Ashe County, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of residential
subdivision with my (our) consent, and establish all lots, and dedicate all
streets, alleys, walks, parks, easements, rights-of-way, and other open spaces
to public or private use as noted.
                                           
   Date               Owner
                                      
                  Owner
   Certificate of Approval for Recording
    Residential Subdivisions Which Do Not Come
    Under the Existing Residential Subdivision
    Regulations
The residential subdivision of land shown on this plat does not fall under the
definition of a residential subdivision as defined in §
156.06  of the Ashe County Residential Subdivisions Ordinance for the following
reason:
                                                  .                                                                                                                                               I
(We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, and that the property is within the regulatory jurisdiction
of Ashe County, and that I(we) hereby declare that it does not fall under the
regulations of the Ashe County Residential Subdivisions Ordinance (
Chapter 156 ) for the reason listed above.
                                                   
   Date         Owner
                                              
            Owner
I,                            , the Staff Review Officer have reviewed this
plat and the applicant has submitted information so that it is reasonable to
assume the above information is correct.
                                                   
   Date         Staff Review Officer
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 7- -07; Am. Ord.
passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.33 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   Upon receipt of the final plat and required plat fee as specified, the
planning staff and Board shall review the plat for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The planning staff or Planning Board, as
appropriate may approve the plat in whole or in part, or may subject the plat
to modifications. The planning staff shall take action within 21 days after the
plat was received. The Planning Board shall take formal action within two
regularly scheduled meetings after the meeting at which the plat was first
received. Failure to take formal action within this time frame shall have the
same effect as a recommendation that the plat be approved. Within five days
after its final action, the planning staff or Planning Board shall notify the
subdivider by letter of the action taken.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.34 APPEALS.
   (A)   If either a preliminary or final plat is not approved by the planning
staff or Planning Board, the subdivider may appeal their case to the Board of
Adjustment within 30 days after such disapproval or failure to approve.
   (B)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. §160D-406. All enforcement actions, including fines,
must be paused during an appeal (G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 5-6-02; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.35 ADVISORY OPINION.
   A subdivider is encouraged to submit a sketch to the planning staff prior to
submission of a preliminary plat if the subdivider wishes to obtain a staff
opinion as to the feasibility of the development of his property.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.36 STAFF APPROVAL OF A MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   If a developer seeks to create a minor residential subdivision, the
developer can seek to subdivide a parcel into no more than seven lots, the
developer can seek approval from a planning staff member appointed by the Ashe
County Manager as the staff residential subdivision review officer. If staff
approval is denied, the developer may appeal the decision to the Board of
Adjustment. If approved, the residential subdivision plat must be recorded in
the Ashe County Register of Deeds. To be approved, the parcel must meet these
minimum requirements:
   (A)   Residential subdivisions which are exempted under §
156.06.
   (B)   All resulting lots must meet the minimum lot size.
   (C)   Plat(s) of the residential subdivision that meet both the requirements
of the Ashe County Register of Deeds, and the plat requirements listed in §
156.26.
   (D)   No land inside a floodplain as determined by Ashe County floodway
boundary and flood rate insurance maps.
   (E)   Plat(s) also must have a certificate which states:
      Certificate of Approval of Staff
      Approved Residential Subdivisions
   This plat represents a residential subdivision of land that consists of one
parcel being divided into no more than seven lots, and meets the requirements
of §
156.36.
                                                                        
Date      Staff Residential Subdivision Review Officer
(Ord. passed 4-3-06; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 156.45 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The subdivider shall observe the following general requirements and
principles of land residential subdivision.
   (A)   Suitability of land. Land which has been determined by the county
planning staff, based on engineering and/or other studies prepared by licensed
professionals, to pose an ascertainable danger to life or property by reason of
its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not be platted for that purpose,
unless and until such time as the subdivider has taken the necessary measures
to correct such conditions and to eliminate such dangers.
      (1)   Land subject to flooding may be considered unsuitable for
residential subdivision development. The decision by the planning staff will be
based on the flooding history of the area and by survey information furnished
by the US Federal Emergency Management Agency as delineated on the Ashe County
floodway boundary and flood rate insurance maps.
   (B)   Lot size. The minimum allowable lot size shall be one acre.
   (C)   Street names. In assigning new street names, duplication of existing
street names shall be avoided and in no case shall the proposed name be
phonetically similar to existing names irrespective of the use of a suffix such
as street, road, drive, place, court, etc. Before final plat approval, the
developer must have met with the County E911 Coordinator and established a
schedule to have appropriate street signage in place. Street names shall be
subject to approval of the planning staff, and shall comply with the County
E911 program.
   (D)   Name of residential subdivision. The name of the residential
subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing
residential subdivision in Ashe County (excluding any residential subdivisions
in an existing municipality within Ashe County).
   (E)   Natural assets. In any residential subdivision, due consideration will
be given to preserving natural features such as trees, ponds, streams, rivers,
lakes, and any historical sites which are of value not only to the residential
subdivision, but to the county as well.
   (F)   Erosion control. In order to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation of
streams, springs, flat water bodies, or other drainage networks, the subdivider
shall retain the natural vegetative cover wherever possible. Additionally, all
land cleared of the natural vegetation and not designated as a street or road
shall be reseeded or replanted with an appropriate vegetative cover. Whenever
land-disturbing activity that will disturb more than one acre is undertaken on
a tract, the person conducting the land-disturbing activity shall install
erosion and sedimentation control devices and practices that are sufficient to
retain the sediment generated by the land-disturbing activity within the
boundaries of the tract during construction upon and development of the tract,
and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent ground cover sufficient to
restrain erosion after completion of construction or development within a time
period to be specified by rule of the Commissioners, shall be submitted with
the preliminary plat. In all cases of street construction, or land disturbing
activity of one acre or more, the subdivider shall comply with all state-
required erosion control measures. A list of recommended vegetative cover and
procedures can be obtained from the New River Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   (G)   Storm water drainage. The subdivider shall provide an adequate system
for the proper drainage of all surface water.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where actually available and not cost prohibitive to connect, the
subdivider shall connect to an existing storm drainage system.
      (3)   Proposed residential subdivision stormwater designs shall provide
adequate means to control stormwater discharge onto adjacent property and onto
all existing drainage conveyance devices. The developer shall provide evidence
that residential subdivision runoff is capable of being handled by existing
structures or make provisions for upgrading such existing structures.
   (H)   Proposed water and sewage systems. All water supply and sewage systems
shall be designed, constructed and operated in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules and regulations of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources and the Appalachian District Health Department.
      (1)   Sufficient information as to the proposed method and system of
water supply and sanitary sewage collection and disposal shall be provided with
the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Where community water and/or sewer system(s) are proposed, the
final plat shall be accompanied by a letter of approval and an operational
permit from the proper official of the North Carolina Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources or the Appalachian District Health
Department, whichever is applicable.
   (I)   Designation of road status.
      (1)   All streets and roads shown on the preliminary and final plats
shall be clearly noted as to which roads are private roads constructed to
county standards and which are state roads constructed to meet North Carolina
Department of Transportation requirements. It is permissible to have both types
of roads within a residential subdivision.
      (J)   Disclosure statement. The developer shall comply with G.S. § 136-
102.6(f) which provides for a disclosure statement from the developer to the
purchaser setting forth the status (whether private or public) of the road on
which the property is located. The disclosure statement shall also fully
disclose the party or parties upon whom responsibility for maintenance of such
roads shall rest. It shall also contain a statement informing the purchaser
that the North Carolina Department of Transportation will not assume any
responsibility for the maintenance or upkeep of a private road. A copy of G.S.
§136-102.6 may be obtained from the County Building Inspections Department.
   (K)   Private road and common area maintenance. Prior to the recording of
the final plat, it is recommended that the developer form a property owners
association pursuant G.S. § 47F-103.101 and record a declaration [defined in
G.S. § 47-103(10)] having provisions for the establishment of a property owners
association and to establish reasonable assessments for road maintenance and
other common areas and facilities. Private county standard roads shall be
maintained to the original or paved width.
   (L)   Access right-of-way. Where a right-of-way, less than 45 feet, provides
access to property proposed for residential subdivision had been granted prior
to May 1, 1996, and the developer presents proof in writing that a 45-foot
right-of-way to the property cannot feasibly be obtained then the developer may
be permitted to develop the property provided they secures at least a 30-foot
right-of-way into the property proposed for residential subdivision. Roads
providing access to residential subdivisions shall meet the same standard as
the roads within the residential subdivision. In cases where less than a 45-
foot right-of-way is used for access to a residential subdivision, this fact
shall be contained in the disclosure statement required by §
156.45(J) and shown on the final plat as specified in §
156.32(A)(2). For purposes of this section, access road shall not include any
state maintained road.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.46 REQUIREMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE ROADS (COUNTY STANDARD).
   (A)   The design standards for residential subdivision streets shall meet
either the minimum construction standards for secondary roads as required by
the North Carolina Department of Transportation or the minimum construction
requirements for private (county standard) roads, as applicable. When state
standards are to be met, the developer shall submit proposed road
specifications for the approval of the local Department of Transportation
office prior to submitting a preliminary plat.
   (B)   Private roads may be allowed, shall meet the following requirements.
The residential subdivision does not include any part of a proposed
thoroughfare or street shown on the Ashe County Comprehensive Transportation
Plan, and the developer shall reference on the final plat the recording of a
roads instrument that provides the following:
      (1)   Guarantees full right of access via any private road in the
residential subdivision to any lot served by that road.
      (2)   Specifies the standards to which private roads in the residential
subdivision have been designed and constructed.
   (C)   Design standards for private roads.
      (1)   Right-of-way width. Right-of-way width for private county standard
roads shall be not less than 45 feet.
      (2)   Width of road. Graded width of roadbed including ditch and shoulder
areas shall have a minimum width of 25 feet.
      (3)   Stoned or paved area. Road travel area may be either stoned or
paved, and shall have a minimum width of 18 feet.
         (a)   Where stone is used, it shall be "crusher-run" or DOT approved
"ABC" stone compacted to a minimum of four inches. In locations where soil
conditions require additional stone or other acceptable means to attain a
stable roadbed, the developer shall complete the necessary road stabilization
prior to submitting the final plat for approval.
         (b)   If the developer elects to pave private roads, the developer
shall meet the requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation
pertaining to stone base and top surface.
      (4)   Shoulder areas and ditches. Shoulder area on cut side shall be a
minimum of four feet in width and shall provide a drainage ditch of adequate
size to accommodate stormwater runoff based on terrain and location. Shoulder
width on fill side shall be a minimum width of three feet. In locations where
cuts are required on both sides of the road, drainage ditches and shoulders
shall occupy approximately three and one-half feet on each side.
      (5)   Cuts and fills. Cuts and fills shall have a maximum slope of 1:1
(one foot horizontal spread to each foot vertical rise). All cuts and fills
shall be seeded when weather and season permits.
      (6)   Benching. Where the terrain cross grade is 20% or greater, the fill
side shall be benched a minimum width of six feet at the base of the fill and
fill material shall be well compacted. Neither brush nor stumps shall be placed
in the roadbed or within any part of the fill.
      (7)   Road grades. Maximum grade for a gravel-surfaced road shall be 15%.
Maximum grade for a road paved in accordance with §
156.46(C)(3)(b) shall be 18%.
      (8)   Culverts and drainage. Culverts shall be of adequate size to
discharge stormwater from any given area depending upon terrain and location.
Minimum culvert size shall be 15 inches inside diameter.
         (a)   Culverts may be either corrugated metal, plastic, or concrete
(bell or spigot) and shall be installed on a constant grade of sufficient
degree to ensure proper drainage and a minimum danger of becoming clogged with
debris or mud. Concrete culverts shall not be permitted where it cannot extend
sufficient distance from the fill side of the road to prevent discharge from
eroding the road bank.
         (b)   All culverts shall have a minimum cover of 12 inches of well-
compacted earth.
      (9)   Curve radius. All curves in private (county standard) roads shall
have a radius of no less than 40 feet as measured from the centerline of the
travel area.
      (10)   Bridges. Proposed bridges which will be part of a private road
shall accommodate two lanes of traffic. Bridges shall be constructed to meet
North Carolina Department of Transportation specifications except that the
width may be reduced to 20 feet. Confirmation that a proposed bridge meets
these specifications must be provided by a Department of Transportation
engineer or by a licensed professional engineer.
      (11)   Cul-de-sac. Turnaround right-of-way width shall be 70 feet in
diameter for round-design cul-de-sac. The gravel surface shall be a maximum of
40 feet in diameter. However, if the terrain prevents the construction of a
round-design cul-de-sac, "tee" or "y" types of turnarounds may be constructed.
In said cases, right-of-way shall be 45 feet in width. The gravel width shall
be 18 feet in both a "tee" and a "y" turnaround.
      (12)   Property lines on private roads. Property lines may be located
along with the centerline of the proposed road and shall have a 22-1/2 foot
road right-of-way measured from the centerline to each side of the road. If
this method is used it shall be clearly indicated on the plats and incorporated
in all deed conveyances. If the developer elects, he may place property lines
(s) 22-1/2 feet from the centerline of the road(s) thereby providing a 45-foot
right-of-way.
         (a)   Property markers (iron, granite, or concrete monument) shall be
placed at the intersection of the right-of-way and property line at a point
measured 22-1/2 feet from the center of the road.
         (b)   The minimum building setback distance from the road abutting the
front of the property shall comply with the North Carolina Building Code.
         (c)   Design standards for lot frontage. Road frontage. All lots shall
have at least 45 feet of road frontage on a state maintained or private road.
Up to three lots may be accessed off a round design cul-de-sac with a minimum
frontage of 40 feet.
         (d)   Roads and utility easements inside the floodplain.
            1.   Private roads may only be placed inside the hundred year
floodplain to access the tract of land being developed from a state maintained
road. The road must exit the 100-year floodplain as quickly as reasonably
possible, and once outside the 100-year floodplain, may not reenter the 100-
year floodplain.
            2.   Utility easements may only be placed inside the 100-year
floodplain to access the tract of land being developed from a state maintained
road. The utility easements must exit the 100-year floodplain as quickly as
reasonably possible, and once outside the 100-year floodplain, may not reenter
the 100-year floodplain.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 2-1-99; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord.
passed 6-15-09; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23) Penalty, see
§
156.99
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 156.47 AUTHORITY.
   The County Commissioners authorize the Planning Board as the most
appropriate planning agency to review planned unit developments.
(Ord. passed 2-3-97; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.48 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A tract of land under ownership either by a
single entity, a corporation, a partnership, or other entity, intended for a
single development being either a residential use (to include single family and
multi-family use), commercial use, or a combination of both commercial and
residential uses.
(Ord. passed 2-3-97; Am. Ord. passed 1-4-99; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord.
passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.49 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
156.47 through
156.50 is to accommodate differences between traditional lot-by-lot residential
subdivisions and planned unit developments, which are usually turn-key
operations. Sections
156.47 through
156.50 encourage PUD proposals that have imagination and creativity in the
design process to include preservation of open spaces and common areas and
amenities, paved roads, and, if appropriate, community water and sewer systems,
and promoting the general welfare, the Planning Board and planning staff
reserve the right to modify the requirements in the existing residential
subdivision ordinance for projects that are identified as PUD’s, since the
overall aims of PUD’s cannot be accomplished without negotiations.
(Ord. passed 2-3-97; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.50 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The normal minimum requirements for lot size, setbacks, and frontage
may be waived for lots or building sites within an approved planned unit
development, provided the spirit and intent of this chapter is not altered
based on the interpretations and decisions of the Planning Board.
   (B)   All streets providing access to a planned unit development and the
streets located in the planned unit development shall meet or exceed the
minimum requirement for streets as defined in the design standards for roads in
§
156.46, excluding §
156.46(B)(3)(b). However, the right-of-way requirements may be waived, but the
roadbed shall remain 25 feet and the road surface shall remain 18 feet and the
road surface shall be paved 18 feet with asphalt according to NCDOT standards.
The street(s) that serve as access from state maintained roads to the PUD,
provided they are owned by the developing entity, shall have curb and guttering
for a minimum of 85 feet on each side of the entrance access. All streets that
do not meet NCDOT standards for maintenance and are not dedicated to the state
shall have a legal, recorded maintenance agreement available to every landowner
that acquires property in the approved PUD. This agreement shall contain the
following information: who will maintain the streets, when will the streets be
maintained, how the streets will be maintained, and the associated cost to each
landowner for street maintenance. This maintenance agreement may be contained
in a declaration recorded pursuant to §
156.45(K). The Planning Board and the planning staff discourages the use of
cul-de-sacs in PUD’s, however, if their use cannot be avoided then a minimum
requirement of 70 feet in diameter shall be required.
   (C)   Common open spaces are an important element in a planned unit
development. Common open space is defined as a group of parcels or tracts of
land designated and intended for use by all residents of the PUD. A minimum of
15% of the total project acreage shall be designated as common open space.
Suggested uses may include fitness, recreation, educational, religious or
cultural. The common open spaces may include swimming pools, tennis courts,
equestrian trails, fitness trails and others, and may contain accessory
buildings which cannot be seen from the right-of-way. A pond, lake, large
stream or other body of water may be used in conjunction with parcels of land
to constitute common open space. Conveyance and maintenance of common open
space, recreational areas, and commonly owned facilities shall be in accordance
with the North Carolina Planned Community-Act (G.S. Chapter 47F) or other
appropriate mechanism acceptable to the planning staff or the Planning Board.
The designated common areas shall be shown on the plats recorded with the
county's Register of Deeds to restrict the use and future development of the
common open spaces.
   (D)   A planned unit development application shall not be approved unless
the developer's plans include either a community water and sewer system, that
has the capacity to serve the entire planned unit development, or designs that
include connecting to a municipal water and sewer system. The community water
and sewer systems shall need approval from the appropriate health agencies
(state and local as applicable). Whenever reasonably possible, all proposed
planned unit developments shall include installation of underground utilities
to include water and sewer lines, electric lines, telephone lines and cable
television lines.
   (E)   Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical
privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walkways, barriers, and
landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants. If topographical or
other existing barriers within 200 feet of the planned unit development do not
provide reasonable privacy for existing uses adjacent to the development, the
Planning Board may require the structures on the perimeter of the planned unit
development be well screened in a manner which is approved by the Planning
Board.
   (F)   Every planned unit development shall provide at least two off-street
parking spaces per dwelling unit and commercial/office parking and loading
space according to the following schedule:
      (1)   Parking space for commercial/office shall consist of one off-street
parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area.
      (2)   Loading and unloading space for commercial/office uses shall
consist of one space at least 300 square feet in size for each 5,000 square
feet of gross floor area.
(Ord. passed 2-3-97; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.55 PERMANENT REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with G.S. Ch. 89C and G.S. § 47-30, which
provide regulations for land surveyors and for the mapping of residential
subdivisions, respectively.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.56 INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall have complied
with the following requirements:
   (A)   Streets and storm drainage facilities. All streets and storm drainage
facilities in the residential subdivision shall have been constructed in
accordance with the drawings submitted.
   (B)   Water supply. Where public water is reasonably accessible (actually
available and not cost prohibitive), the subdivider shall connect with the
public supply and provide water mains and a suitable water connection to each
lot. Where a public water supply is not reasonably accessible, the subdivider
may provide individual water supplies or a community water system.
   (C)   Sewage systems. Where a public sanitary sewer system is reasonably
accessible (actually available and not cost prohibitive), the subdivider shall
connect with the public system and shall provide a connection for each lot.
Where a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, individual sewage disposal
systems or a community sewage disposal system may be provided. These systems
shall be located, constructed, and operated in accordance with the requirements
and standards of the North Carolina Department of Environment, and Natural
Resources; the North Carolina Division of Health Services; and the Appalachian
District Health Department.
   (D)   Installation at time of final plat. In the event that any public or
community utilities are not installed at the time of final plat approval, a
bond or other security guarantee may be required by the Planning Board as
specified in §
156.57.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.57 DEFERMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Where it is in the best interest of all parties concerned to defer the
installation or completion of some required improvements such as roads, or
sewer and water connections, the planning staff or Planning Board as
appropriate may approve the final plat if the subdivider posts a bond with
surety or other guarantees satisfactory to the County Commissioners in the
amount equal to or greater than the estimated cost of the deferred
improvements. Such guarantees shall guarantee either the performance of the
specified work or payment of the specified sum to the county if said
improvements have not been installed within the times specified on the final
plat. The County Commissioners may require the bond or other guarantee be
greater than the estimated cost of the improvements to allow for cost
increases.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
Penalty, see §
156.99
VARIANCES
§ 156.65 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an unnecessary
hardship, the Board of Adjustment may authorize a variance, if such variance
can be made without destroying the intent of this chapter. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered into the minutes of the Board of
Adjustment with the reasoning set forth on which the departure was justified.
Requests for variances shall be made in writing and submitted to the Planning
Department staff, in the form of a letter, at or before the time of either
preliminary or final plat submission. The letter shall be addressed to the Ashe
County Board of Adjustment, and shall include the project name, and explain the
variance being sought as well as any circumstances which make a variance
necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 4-8-02; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.66 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government, pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.67 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective February 19, 2024.
(Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23; Am. Ord. passed 2-19-24)
§ 156.98 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND OTHER EQUITABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   The county may being an action for injunction and order abatement for
any illegal residential subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale of land
therein, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction
and order requiring the offending party to comply with this chapter under G.S.
§ 160D-807. This chapter may also be enforced by other appropriate, equitable
remedies issued from a court of competent jurisdiction under G.S. §160D-807.
   (B)   It shall be a violation if a person who is the owner or the agent of
the owner of any land located within the territorial jurisdiction of the
county, subdivides his land in violation of this chapter, or transfers or sells
land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing such
residential subdivision before the plat has been properly approved under this
chapter and recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds. Such
violation shall be a misdemeanor.
   (C)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land does not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day's continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-20-96; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 12-19-22; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
CHAPTER 157: RACETRACKS AND MOTORSPORT EVENTS
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Purpose
   
157.03   Authority
   
157.04   Jurisdiction
   
157.05   Definitions
   
157.06   Permitting standards; motorsport events
   
157.07   Violation
   
157.08   Motorsport events; location and hours of operation
   
157.09   Variance process
   
157.10   Non-conforming use
   
157.11   Conflict of interest
   
157.12   Effective date
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Racetracks and Motorsport Events Chapter
of Ashe County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.02 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of Ashe
County citizens, the County Commissioners hereby establish certain criteria
relating to motorsport events in order to accommodate and control these
activities. Motorsport events, by their very nature, are likely to produce loud
noises, odors, vibrations, fumes, dust, and smoke that can have hazardous
effects on the health of nearby persons. These standards shall allow for the
placement and growth of racetracks and motorsport events while maintaining the
health, safety and general welfare standards of persons and established
residential and commercial areas in Ashe County.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S. § 160D-
201.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated Ashe County which
are not included in the corporate limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of an
incorporated municipality.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTORSPORT EVENT. A group activity for which persons have been solicited or
invited to attend a vehicle competition, exhibition of speed, or other form of
recreation involving the use of occupied motorized vehicles on a racetrack and
for which an admission fee is charged or donations are solicited from
spectators.
   PERSON. An individual natural person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, legal representative or other recognized legal entity.
   RACETRACK. A designated portion of a tract of land which is designed and
intended for vehicle competitions or vehicle exhibitions of speed involving the
use of occupied motorized vehicles, including lawnmowers modified from their
original purpose and motorcycles.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.06 PERMITTING STANDARDS; MOTORSPORT EVENTS.
   An annual (calendar year) permit is required from the Planning Department
for motorsport events. The cost shall be $200. The permit application form
shall include this information:
   (A)   Land owner and motorsport event operator names, addresses and phone
numbers for their businesses and homes;
   (B)   Location of the Racetrack by township, property identification number
and physical address, accompanied by a recordable plat showing total acreage of
the property, relationship of the racetrack to the entire property, and
distances from the racetrack to all permanent structures affected by §
157.08(A) of this chapter;
   (C)   Certification from the proposed motorsport event operator of insurance
coverage to protect spectators when an admission fee will be charged or
donations will be solicited from spectators. The adequate amount of insurance
coverage shall be presumed to be $3,000,000, with the amount appealable to the
Planning Board as an unnecessary hardship; and
   (D)   All dates of planned motorsport Events at the designated racetrack
during the permit year.
   (E)   A knowing misrepresentation on a permit application, or a knowing
violation of any provision of this chapter, will result in revocation of that
person’s motorsport event permit. The Planning Director shall make this
determination, which shall be appealable to the Board of Adjustment.The appeal
shall be submitted in writing to the Board of Adjustment within 30 calendar
days of receipt of notice of decision. If notice of decision is sent by mail,
it must be presumed it is received on the third business day after it is sent
(see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
      (1)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
      (2)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.07 VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a motorsport event without
first having obtained a permit, and unlawful for any person to conduct a
motorsport event in violation of any provision of this chapter. If any
provision of this chapter is found in violation then a notice of violation will
be issued to both the permittee and the land owner, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404
(a).
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23) Penalty, see §
157.99
§ 157.08 MOTORSPORT EVENTS; LOCATION AND HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Location of a racetrack for a motorsport event shall be more than
1,000 feet from a residential dwelling unit or commercial building, unless
permission of the owner or lawful occupant is granted in a notarized document
and specifies the applicable time period. Location of a racetrack shall be more
than 2,640) feet from a school, a daycare facility, a nursing home facility, a
hospital, a state, federal, or local public park, and the right-of-way of the
Blue Ridge Parkway.
   (B)    Hours of operation shall be limited to 11:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on
Sunday through Thursday and from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. (Midnight) on Friday
and Saturday. Operation of a motorsport event shall be subject to the Ashe
County Noise Ordinance (
Chapter 97).
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.09 VARIANCE PROCESS.
   (A)    Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause
an unnecessary hardship, the Board of Adjustment may authorize a variance. Any
authorization of a variance shall not destroy the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   All requests for a variance shall be submitted to the Planning
Department at least 15 business days before the next scheduled planning board
meeting.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.10 NON-CONFORMING USE.
    Any existing facility operating in non-compliance of this chapter may
continue to operate as a non- conforming use, but may not expand without a
variance permit in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.11 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative Staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government, pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 4/17/2023.
(Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-18-11; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
CHAPTER 158: COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS
Section
   
158.01   Title
   
158.02   Purpose
   
158.03   Authority
   
158.04   Jurisdiction; exclusions; exemptions
   
158.05   Definitions
   
158.06   Special use permit required to erect tower
   
158.07   Tower application criteria, submission and review process
   
158.08   Fees and inspections
   
158.09   Collocation application and permit
   
158.10   Expiration of permit
   
158.11   Variance process
   
158.12   Decision of Board; appeals
   
158.13   Abandonment
   
158.14   Severability clause
   
158.15   Conflict with other laws
   
158.16   Conflicts of interest
   
158.17   Effective date
 
   
158.99   Penalty
§ 158.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Communications Towers Chapter of Ashe
County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and standards for the
location and construction of towers and antennas for wireless
telecommunications in order to:
   (A)   Protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Ashe
County;
   (B)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties;
   (C)   Minimize potential hazards to aircraft;
   (D)   Maximize the use of existing towers and structures to reduce the
number of towers; and
   (E)   Restrict the location of towers that detract from the natural beauty
of the county without providing outweighing economic advantages for Ashe County
citizens and the tourism industry.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority and provision of the G.S. §
160D-932.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.04 JURISDICTION; EXCLUSIONS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated
Ashe County which are not included in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of any
municipalities.
   (B)   Exclusions. This chapter shall not apply to non-commercial towers
which are for personal use and for which the owner makes no charge for use by
others; to a tower owned by a government agency and utilized only for non-
commercial emergency communications; to a tower under 40 feet in height owned
and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio station operator; or to a
tower used exclusively for a receive-only antenna.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following are exempt of the requirements of this
chapter:
      (1)   Wireless facilities placed on utility poles.
      (2)   Removal or replacement of transmission equipment on an existing
wireless tower or wireless facility that does not increase the tower’s height
or width by 10%.
      (3)   Ordinary maintenance of existing wireless facilities, as defined in
this chapter.
      (4)   Carriers on Wheels (COWs) placed for a period of not more than 120
days at any location within the county, or after a declaration of an emergency
or disaster by the Governor.
      (5)   Antenna or antenna support structures of amateur radio operators 90
feet or less in height.
      (6)   New and existing wireless support structures and facilities owned
by governmental agencies and designed for non-commercial emergency
communications.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.05 DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall be
interpreted to have the meaning described in this section. All other words,
terms and phrases shall be interpreted as they are commonly used in everyday
language.
   CARRIER ON WHEELS (COW). A portable self-contained wireless facility that
can be moved to a location and set up to provide wireless services on a
temporary or emergency basis. A COW is normally vehicle-mounted and contains a
telescoping boom as the antenna support structure.
   CERTIFIED FALL ZONE. A measured distance outward from the base of the tower
established by a document submitted by a professional engineer registered with
the State of North Carolina, in which a distance less than the standard fall
zone is represented as sufficient to protect adjacent property from collapse of
the tower resulting from structural failure or acts of nature.
   CO-LOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
city utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities in compliance
with applicable codes. The term does not include the installation of new
utility poles, city utility poles, or wireless support structures.
   CONCEALMENT TECHNOLOGY. Use of artificial trees, clock towers, bell
steeples, light poles and similar mounting structures that camouflage or
conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   FALL ZONE. The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards. The area shall be sufficiently large to contain any ice or debris
that may fall from the tower or one of its structural components.
   MAJOR MOUNTAIN RIDGE OR PEAK. A major mountain ridge or peak is any,
according to the USGS 1:24,000 Topographic Map, with an elevation that is
greater than 3,000 feet above mean sea level, or an elevation that is greater
than 500 feet above the adjacent valley floor, including all land within 100
feet below the elevation of any portion of such line or surface along the
crest.
   MONOPOLE. A single, freestanding pole-type structure supporting one or more
antennas. For the purposes of this chapter, a monopole is used to support
wireless telecommunication antennas and is not a utility pole.
   TOWER.  A structure erected solely for the purpose of supporting one or more
antennas designed to wirelessly transmit or receive any form of electronic
communication; including self-supporting lattice towers, guy towers, or
monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures, and the like.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the ground at the base to
the uppermost point of the tower, including any attached antenna, beacon, light
or other structure(s) attached to the communication tower. Telecommunication
towers, combined with any attached antenna, beacon, light or other structure(s)
shall not be constructed over a maximum height of 200 feet.
   TOWER SITE. The real property that an applicant(s) is required to have
ownership of, leasehold of interest in, or easement over, pursuant to §
158.07(A).
   VIEWSHED. Those lands seen from a known location forming a visual
composition, with foreground, middle ground and background areas. Foreground is
the area within one mile of the known location close enough to a viewer so that
individual plant types, smells, colors, and forms are extremely vivid.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term does not
include any of the following:
      (1)   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to
which the equipment is collocated.
      (2)   Wireline backhaul facilities.
      (3)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or
utility poles or city utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately
adjacent to or directly associated with a particular antenna.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower, or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole or a city utility pole is not a
wireless support structure.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord.
passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.06 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED TO ERECT TOWER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or other
entity to erect a tower or replace an existing tower without first obtaining a
special use tower permit application (referred to as “tower application”) from
the Ashe County Planning Department, and being duly approved by the Ashe County
Board of Adjustment. Upon approval of the permit by the Board of Adjustment,
the applicant must also obtain necessary permits from the Ashe County Building
and Inspections Department before construction begins. Approvals must be
provided in writing; may be provided in print or electronic form; if electronic
form is utilized, must be protected against further editing pursuant to G.S.
§160D-403(a). Approvals must also run with the land (see G.S. §160D-104).
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.07 TOWER APPLICATION CRITERIA, SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The tower application must include a site plan containing the
following information and must be made by the landowner, a lessee or person
holding an option or contract to purchase or lease the land, or an authorized
agent of the landowner (see G.S. §160D-403(a)):
      (1)   Property. The name and contact information for the property owner
of the proposed site location, the parcel ID number of the location, and a copy
of the section of the 1:24,000 USGS quadrangle showing the proposed site.
      (2)   Copy of lease agreement. Non-owner applicants must provide a copy
of lease or letter of authorization from the property owner evidencing
applicant’s authority to pursue the application. Such submissions need not
disclose financial lease terms.
      (3)   Fall zone statement. A statement and description of sufficient land
area surrounding the tower to contain any ice debris or debris that happens to
fall from the tower, antenna, or guy wires.
      (4)   Collocation of towers.
         (a)   Collocation is a highly desirable feature of a tower,
potentially reducing the number of towers needed in the county. Collocation on
an existing tower shall not increase the height, width, or exceed the
structural capacity of the existing tower.
         (b)   If unable to collocate on existing tower, provide:
            1.   A statement of reasons the applicant cannot utilize existing
towers (by collocation) to achieve the results desired;
            2.   A statement of reasons the applicant has rejected lease of
county-owned property upon which the county could collocate antennas for
emergency communications;
         (c)   Any statements concerning the structural integrity of the
existing tower being unable to collocate an additional antenna, shall be from a
professional engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina.
      (5)   Blue Ridge Parkway view shed. A description of the distance of the
proposed site from the Blue Ridge Parkway, and if within its view shed, a copy
of all communication with the Community Planner for the Blue Ridge Parkway
regarding the proposed tower site.
      (6)   Right-of-way access. Proof of authority to use the tower site and
any necessary right-of-way approval to the tower site, describing how the tower
site and right-of-way will be accessed and maintained.
      (7)   Tower company identification.
         (a)   Name and contact information of the company owning the tower and
the company responsible for maintaining the tower;
         (b)   Names and contact information for the professional who prepared
the site design;
         (c)   Location of a four foot by four foot sign, clearly visible,
identifying the owner and operator of the tower site and a local emergency
phone number for each.
      (8)   Proof of insurance. The tower owner shall provide proof of general
liability insurance in at least the amount of $500,000. This requirement for
proof of insurance shall be required as part of the permit application process,
upon any policy changes or renewals or upon request by the Ashe County Planning
Department.
   (B)   The tower application must include a design plan containing the
following information:
      (1)   Engineer certification. Tower design plans must be signed and
certified by a professional engineer licensed by the State of North Carolina;
      (2)   Location of the base of the tower and the foundations for all guy-
line anchors and support structures, all proposed wireless facility buildings
and any other proposed improvements, including the utilities connections within
and to the proposed site;
      (3)   A description of engineering or construction methods that will
allow for additional antennas to be located on the proposed tower for future
collocation or additional expansion of services;
      (4)   Certification that the tower is designed to meet the standards of
Table 1606.1 of the North Carolina State Building Code for wind velocities;
      (5)   Certification that the tower meets the ANSI/EIA/TIA-222 standards
of a minimum 100 year return wind speed and a minimum one-half inch of solid
radial ice;
      (6)   A tower shall not be located on a major mountain ridge without
consideration of concealment technology, and shall be designed to utilize the
minimum height for its intended purpose, but shall not be greater in height
than 200 feet, which includes any attached antenna, beacon, light or other
structure(s);
      (7)   A tower shall be constructed according to the North Carolina
Utilities Commission construction standards;
      (8)   A chain link fence with a minimum height of eight feet, topped with
one or two feet of razor wire, and with a minimum of a 15 feet radius from the
tower center, shall be constructed to improve safety and discourage vandalism;
      (9)   Tower lighting. Any necessary communications tower lighting shall
meet, but not exceed, the minimum standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) for a lighting system;
      (10)   All existing facilities and infrastructure, to include all
overhead and underground power lines; federal, state, and local roads; any
water courses, to include perennial streams; and any existing communications
equipment on the property.
   (C)   Submittal and review process. A tower permit application submitted to
the Ashe County Planning Department will be reviewed by the County Planner for
conformity with this chapter. When deemed complete, the tower permit
application will be presented to the Ashe County Board of Adjustment at its
next regularly scheduled meeting for consideration of approval. The Board of
Adjustment shall review the tower permit application and consider the necessity
of the proposed tower to accomplish the objectives of this chapter, the effect
of the proposed tower on neighboring properties, the effect on views of any
Major Mountain Ridge, and the effect of the proposed tower on financial
concerns for the county such as tourism and development.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.08 FEES AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All tower permit fees shall be set by the Ashe County Board of
Commissioners and will be on file with the Planning Department. Fees shall be
paid to the Ashe County Planning Department at the time of application
submittal.
   (B)   All required building permit fees shall be paid to the Ashe County
Building Inspections Department before any building permits can be issued.
   (C)   The Ashe County Building Inspections will have authority to inspect
the tower site(s) from time to time and will notify the tower company of any
issues that may be found for immediate correction which may be due to weather
events, vandalism, or the like. Personnel must enter premises during reasonable
hours and upon presenting credentials; must have consent of premises owner or
an administrative search warrant to inspect areas not open to the public,
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(e).
   (D)   Tower owners shall be responsible in submitting additional tower
inspections and/or engineering report(s) for said tower, as required by state
and/or federal organizations for the operation of communication towers, to the
Ashe County Planning Department. The Department will keep the most current
inspection report(s) on file for these existing tower(s).
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.09 COLLOCATION APPLICATION AND PERMIT.
   If an antenna owner would like to collocate his/her antenna and equipment
onto an existing Communications Tower, the owner can seek approval from the
Ashe County Planning Director.
   (A)   On an existing tower shall not increase the height, width, or exceed
the structural capacity of the existing tower.
   (B)   Property. The name and contact information for the tower owner of the
proposed site location, the parcel ID number of the location.
   (C)   All the application requirements and payment of the fees must be met
prior to permit issuance.
(Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.10 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A communications tower permit issued by the Ashe County Board of Adjustment,
pursuant to this chapter, expires six months after the date of issuance if the
work authorized has not commenced or any building permits have not been issued.
If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the
permit immediately expires. No work authorized by a permit that has expired may
thereafter be performed until a new permit application has been submitted,
current communication tower permit fees are paid and approval is granted by the
Ashe County Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 6-6-05; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord.
passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.11 VARIANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause
an unnecessary hardship, the Board of Adjustment may authorize a variance. Any
authorizing of a variance shall not destroy the intent of this chapter. Any
authorized variance shall be recorded on the permit.
   (B)   A request for a variance shall be submitted by the applicant in
writing to the Board of Adjustment. The request shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Identification of the ordinance provision(s) responsible for the
alleged hardship.
      (2)   The reason for seeking the variance.
      (3)   Any conditions that are proposed by the applicant to mitigate
possible adverse effects of the proposed variance.
   (C)   All requests from an applicant for a variance shall be made in writing
and submitted to the Ashe County Planning Department at least 15 days before
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Ashe County Board of Adjustment.
This allows for appropriate public notice of the proposed variance.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance upon finding that all of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant of
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.12 DECISION OF BOARD; APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings to support its
decision either granting or denying the variance, and a copy shall be provided
to the applicant. The Board may attach to any variance conditions as it deems
necessary and appropriate. A request for a variance under this section shall
not constitute an admission by the applicant of any findings of fact made by
the Planning Director or a waiver of appeal rights provided by this division.
Should the Board of Adjustment grant the requested variance, the Planning
Director shall issue a tower permit. The permit applicant shall acknowledge and
agree to permit conditions approved by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   An applicant requesting approval of a wireless communication facility
who is aggrieved by any decision made by the Planning Director may appeal said
decision to the Ashe County Board of Adjustment. The appeal shall be submitted
in writing to the Ashe County Board of Adjustment within 30 calendar days of
receipt of notice of decision. If notice of decision is sent by mail, it must
be presumed it is received on the third business day after it is sent (see G.S.
§ 160D-405(c)).
   (C)   An applicant requesting approval of a wireless communication facility
who is aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Ashe County Board of Adjustment may appeal said decision to the North
Carolina State Superior Court. The appeal shall be submitted in writing within
30 calendar days of receipt of notice of order, requirement, decision or
determination. If notice of decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is
received on the third business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
   (D)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
   (E)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.13 ABANDONMENT.
   If the permitted use of any communications tower ceases for a consistent
period of 12 months, the tower owner shall have 90 days from notice of
violation of this chapter provision in which to dismantle and remove the entire
communications tower and its equipment from the existing site, pursuant to the
statutory procedures on notices of violation authorized by G.S. §160D-404(a)
(see §
158.15).
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.14 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or a part thereof other than
the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am.
Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.15 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Whenever the regulations of this chapter conflict with the requirements of
another federal or state statue, or county ordinance, the more restrictive
standard shall govern.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord.
passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.16 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of §160D-109.
(Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective August 21, 2023.
(Ord. passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-2-97; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-05; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord.
passed 4-20-15; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
CHAPTER 159: RESERVED
CHAPTER 160: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
Section
   
160.01   Title
   
160.02   Purpose
   
160.03   Authority
   
160.04   Jurisdiction
   
160.05   Definitions
   
160.06   Prohibited activities
   
160.07   Nonconforming use
   
160.08   Permits
   
160.09   Severability
   
160.10   Variances
   
160.11   Appeals
   
160.12   Conflict of interest
   
160.13   Effective date
 
   
160.99   Penalty; enforcement
§ 160.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Adult Establishments Chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.02 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizenry of Ashe County, this chapter is adopted by the Board of
Commissioners to regulate adult establishments, as defined in this chapter,
located in the county. The regulations of this chapter have been made with
reasonable consideration given to the character of the county and its areas and
the unique suitability of certain areas for location of these establishments.
Studies have shown that lowered property values and increased crime rates tend
to accompany and are brought about by the concentration of adult establishments
as defined in this chapter. Regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure
that these effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding
neighborhoods and to protect the integrity of the county’s schools, churches,
child care centers, parks and playgrounds which are typically areas in which
juveniles congregate. It is the intent of this provision to establish
reasonable regulations to prevent a concentration of adult establishments
within the County of Ashe and to separate adult establishments from those
sensitive uses listed in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.03 AUTHORITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted by the Board of Commissioners
under authority granted by the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina
in G.S. §160D-902 and §14-202.11(c).
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to every geographic area within the county, except
as to locations within the jurisdiction of an incorporated municipality.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.05 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter:
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
other periodicals, videotapes, compact discs, other photographic, electronic,
magnetic, digital, or other imaging medium) which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
chapter; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications (including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other
imaging medium) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. A business as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(2). This
definition includes adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult live entertainment businesses as defined in
this chapter.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this chapter, for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.   An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
chapter, for observation by patrons therein. Adult motion picture theatre does
not include any adult mini motion picture theatre.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise that has as one of
its principal business purposes or as a significant portion of its business an
emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or related to anatomical
areas and sexual activities specified in G.S. §14-202.10.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICE. Without limitation, any artificial replica or
simulation of a specified anatomical area or other device or paraphernalia that
is designed principally for specified sexual activities, but shall not include
any contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Display of human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.06 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person shall create or operate an adult establishment in any
location:
      (1)   Within 1,320 feet in any direction from an established residential
dwelling structure;
      (2)   Within 1,320 feet in any direction from a structure in which an
adult establishment is located;
      (3)   Within 1,320 feet in any direction from a structure used as a
church, synagogue, or other house of worship;
      (4)   Within 1,320 feet in any direction from a structure used as a
public school or as a state- licensed day care center;
      (5)   Within 1,320 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel on which
a public playground, public swimming pool, or public park is located; or
      (6)   Within 1.5 miles of the Blue Ridge Parkway, the distance to be
measured horizontally from the roadway centerline of the Blue Ridge Parkway.
   (B)   No person shall authorize or create a display of the contents or the
activity of an adult establishment which is visible from outside the confines
of an adult establishment.
   (C)   A live entertainment establishment is prohibited from any display of
specified sexual activities as defined in this chapter , and is prohibited from
allowing indecent exposure as defined in G.S. §14-190.9.
   (D)   For purposes of enforcement of this chapter, the term PERSON shall
mean an individual and shall include:
      (1)   The manager of an establishment; the owner of an establishment;
      (2)   The agent in charge of a building, premises, structure or facility;
or
      (3)   The owner of a building, premises, structure or facility when that
owner knew, or reasonably should have known, the nature of the enterprise
operated there, and that owner refused to cooperate with public officials in
taking reasonable measures designed to terminate a prescribed use. Provided,
however, that if there is an agent in charge, and if the owner did not have
actual knowledge of a prescribed use, the owner shall not be prosecuted under §
160.99(A).
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize or allow any
adult establishment to operate within Ashe County if prohibited by some
provision of North Carolina or federal law.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.07 NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Any adult establishment lawfully operating on date adopted, that is in
violation of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any use which is
determined to be nonconforming by application of the provisions of this section
shall be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years. Such
nonconforming use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or altered except
that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   (B)   If a nonconforming use is discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more, it may not be reopened as an adult establishment.
   (C)   If two or more adult establishments are within 1,320 feet of one
another and otherwise in a permissible location, the adult establishment which
was first operated and continuously operated at its present location shall be
considered the conforming use and the one created later shall be considered
nonconforming.
   (D)   An adult enterprise lawfully operating as a conforming use shall not
be rendered nonconforming by the subsequent location of a structure or facility
designated in §
160.06.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.08 PERMITS.
   A permit is required to operate an adult establishment. Application shall be
made to the Ashe County Planning Department and must be made by the landowner,
a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase or lease the land,
or an authorized agent of the landowner (see G.S. §160D-403(a)). The
application will be on a form approved by the Ashe County Board of
Commissioners, and must be accompanied by a signed and sealed survey from a
professional land surveyor showing that the proposed location complies with the
setbacks of §
160.06. Approvals must be provided in writing; may be provided in print or
electronic form; if electronic form is utilized, must be protected against
further editing pursuant to G.S. §160D-403(a). Approvals must also run with the
land (see G.S. §160D-104). Approval revocation must follow the same process
used for approval pursuant to G.S. §160D-403(f). Denial of an application by
the Planning Department may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.09 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.10 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the
provisions to this chapter would cause an unnecessary hardship, a written
petition for a variance shall be considered by the Board of Adjustment, which
may authorize a variance if it can be made in fairness to other applicants and
without destroying the intent and purposes of this chapter. Before granting a
variance from the separation requirements set forth in this chapter the Board
of Adjustment shall find that thoroughfares, traffic circulation patterns,
structures or other natural or man-made geographic or topographic features are
likely to provide an adequate measure of protection for the community or from
any secondary effects of the adult establishment. Any authorized variance shall
be entered in writing in the official minutes of the Board of Adjustment with
the reasons described for which the exception was made.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.11 APPEALS.
   An applicant requesting approval of an adult establishment who are aggrieved
by a decision by the Planning Department may appeal said decision to the Board
of Adjustment. The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Board of
Adjustment within thirty calendar days of receipt of notice of decision. If
notice of decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is received on the
third business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
   (A)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. §160D-406.
   (B)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (G.S. §160D-405).
(Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.12 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective August 21, 2023.
(Ord. passed 8-21-23)
§ 160.99 PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this Chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-12; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23; Am. Ord. passed 8-21-23)
CHAPTER 161: VOLUNTARY FARMLAND PRESERVATION PROGRAM
Section
   
161.01   Title
   
161.02   Authority
   
161.03   Purpose
   
161.04   Jurisdiction
   
161.05   Definitions
   
161.06   Qualifications and certification of farmland
   
161.07   Application, approval and appeal procedures
   
161.08   Revocation of agricultural district agreements
   
161.09   Agricultural Advisory Board
   
161.10   Public hearings on condemnation of farmland
   
161.11   Land use incentives to voluntary agricultural district formation
   
161.12   North Carolina agency notification
   
161.13   Legal provisions
§ 161.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, adopted by the Board of Commissioners, shall be known as the
Ashe County Voluntary Farmland Preservation Program.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01)
§ 161.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority conferred by G.S. §§ 106-
735 through 106-743.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01)
§ 161.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety, rural
agricultural values and general welfare of the county and more specifically,
increase identity and pride in the agricultural community and its way of life;
encourage the economic and financial health of farming; increase protection
from undesirable non-farm development; and increase the protection of farms
from nuisance suits and other negative impacts on properly managed farms.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01)
§ 161.04 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the Voluntary Farmland Preservation Program shall be the
unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01)
§ 161.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Ashe County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Ashe County, North
Carolina.
   CHAIRMAN. Chairman of the Ashe County Agricultural Advisory Board.
   DISTRICT. A voluntary agricultural district established under the terms and
conditions of this chapter by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01)
§ 161.06 QUALIFICATIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF FARMLAND.
   (A)   Requirements. In order for farmland to qualify for participation under
the terms of this chapter, it shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The farmland shall be real property;
      (2) The farm property shall be participating in the farm present-use-
value taxation program established by G.S. §§ 105-277.2 through 105-277.7, or
is otherwise determined by the county to meet all the qualifications of this
program set forth in G.S. § 105-277.3;
      (3) The property shall be certified by the Natural Resources Conservation
Service of the United States Department of Agriculture, in consultation with
the New River Soil and Water Conservation District, Cooperative Extension
office and the Farm Service Agency, as being a farm on which at least two-
thirds of the land is composed of soils that:
         (a)   Are best suited for providing food, seed, fiber, forage, timber,
and horticultural crops, including Christmas trees and ornamental;
         (b)   Have good soil qualities;
         (c)   Are favorable for all major crops common to the county where the
land is located;
         (d)   Have a favorable growing season; and
         (e)   Receive the available moisture needed to produce high yields for
an average of eight out of ten years; or
Soils on which at least two-thirds of the land has been actively used in
agricultural, horticultural or forestry operations as defined in G.S. § 105-
277.2 (1, 2, 3) during each of the five previous years, measured from the date
on which the determination must be made as to whether the land in question
qualifies;
      (4)   The property, if highly erodible land exists on the farm, is
managed in accordance with the Natural Resources Conservation Service defined
erosion control practices that are addressed to said highly erodible land, and
      (5)   The property is the subject of an agreement between the county and
the owner of such land that prohibits non-farm use or development of such land
for a period of at least ten years. There will be an exemption for the creation
of not more than three lots that meet applicable county watershed and
subdivision regulations (
Chapter 156 of Ashe County Land Usage Code of Ordinance) or the regulations of
any municipality which apply to the farm property. The property owner may
voluntarily revoke this agreement by submitting a written request to the Board
in accordance with §
161.08.
   (B)   Certification. The owner of the farm seeking to qualify his property
for participation in the farmland preservation program shall submit written
evidence that the property conforms to the requirements of subsection (A)
above. This written information shall be submitted to the Chairman of the
Advisory Board or the designated staff person on forms provided by the Board.
The certification may be submitted at the same time the owner applies for
inclusion in a district.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.07 APPLICATION, APPROVAL AND APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Creation of Voluntary Agricultural Districts. In order to implement
the purposes stated in §
161.03, this chapter provides for the creation of voluntary agricultural
districts that shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   The district, when initially established, shall contain a minimum
of 25 contiguous acres of qualified farmland, OR, two or more qualified farms
that contain a minimum of 25 acres and are located within a mile of each other;
      (2)   The landowner(s) requesting inclusion in the district shall execute
an agreement with the county to sustain agriculture in the district in
accordance with §
161.06(A)(5). Said agreement shall be in a form which is reviewed and approved
by the Advisory Board; and
      (3)   For each district created under the terms of this chapter, one of
the existing Advisory Board members shall be assigned to represent the
district.
   (B)   Application to Participate. A landowner may apply to participate in
the program by making application to the Chairman of the Advisory Board or to a
designated staff person. The application shall be on forms provided by the
Advisory Board. The application to participate in a district may be filed with
the certification of qualifying farmland.
   (C)   Approval Process. Upon review of the written certification and
application submitted by the property owner, the Board shall meet within 30
days if possible to approve or disapprove the application. The Chairman shall
notify the applicants by first class mail of said approval or disapproval of
participation in the district.
   (D)   Appeal. If an application is denied by the Agricultural Advisory
Board, the petitioner has 30 days to appeal the decision to the Ashe County
Board of Commissioners. Such appeal shall be presented in writing. The decision
of the Board of Commissioners is final.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.08 REVOCATION OF AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT AGREEMENTS.
   By written notice to the Board, a landowner of qualifying farmland may
revoke the agreement formulated pursuant to §
161.06(A)(5), or the Board may revoke same agreement based on noncompliance by
the landowner. Such revocation shall result in loss of qualifying farm status,
and consequently, loss of eligibility to participate in a voluntary
agricultural district and the benefits thereof. Revocation by a landowner of an
agreement and the resulting loss of qualifying farmland status for the purpose
of participation in a voluntary agricultural district shall in no way affect
the eligibility of the land to be taxed at its present use value as provided in
G.S. §§ 105-277.2 through 105-277.6. If a portion of a district is removed for
any reason after being established by this chapter, the remaining qualified
farms may remain in the program, provided they meet all other requirements
except the minimum area requirements of §
161.07(A)(1).
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.09 AGRICULTURAL ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Creation. In accordance with G.S. § 106-739, the Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes an Agricultural Advisory Board to implement
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Appointments and Membership. The Agricultural Advisory Board shall
consist of seven members appointed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)   Each Board member shall be a county resident and registered to
vote in the county.
         (b)   Five of the seven members shall be actively engaged in farming.
         (c)   The five members actively engaged in farming shall meet the
eligibility criteria for the preservation program and be selected for
appointment by the Board of Commissioners from the names of individuals
submitted to the Board of Commissioners by the New River Soil and Water
Conservation District, the Cooperative Extension Service, the Farm Service
Agency Committee and the Ashe County Farm Bureau, with an effort to have the
broadest geographical representation possible. The two members shall have
special interest, experience, or education in agriculture and/or rural land
preservation.
      (2)   Tenure. The members are to serve for terms of three years, except
that the initial Board is to consist of two appointees for a term of one year,
two appointees for terms of two years, and three appointees for terms of three
years. Thereafter, all appointments are to be for terms of three years, with
reappointments permitted but shall not exceed two consecutive three- year
terms. The term for the initial Board members will be determined by lottery.
      (3)   Vacancies. Any vacancy on the Agricultural Advisory Board is to be
filled by the Board of Commissioners for the remainder of the unexpired term
following the same procedure as for the initial appointment.
      (4)   Removal for Cause. Any member of the Agricultural Advisory Board
may be removed for cause by the Board of Commissioners upon written charges and
after a public hearing. A Board member shall forfeit membership if three
consecutive unexcused Board meetings are missed.
      (5)   Funding.
         (a)   Compensation. The per meeting compensation of the members of the
Board shall be fixed by the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Appropriations for Performance
of Duties. Funds shall be appropriated by the Board of Commissioners to the
Agricultural Advisory Board to perform its duties. The Board shall request a
budget to be presented to the County Commissioners annually.
   (C)   Procedures. The Board shall adopt rules of procedure which are
consistent with the enabling legislation and other applicable statutes.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson each year at its first meeting of the fiscal year. The Chairperson
shall preside over all regular or special meetings of the Board. In the absence
or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson shall preside and shall
have and exercise all the powers of the Chairperson so absent or disabled.
Additional officers may be elected as needed.
      (2)   Jurisdiction and Procedures: Supple- mentary Rules. The
jurisdiction and procedures of the Board are set out in this section, except
that the Board may adopt supplementary rules of procedure not inconsistent with
this section or with other provisions of law.
      (3)   Board Year. The Board shall use the county fiscal year as its
meeting year.
      (4)   Meetings. Meetings of the Board, following such notice as required
by this section, shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other
times as the Board in its rules of procedure may specify. A called meeting
shall be held at least monthly. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the
members of the Board.
      (5)   Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of any administrative official or agency, to decide in favor of
an applicant, or to pass upon any other matter on which it is required to act
under this section.
      (6)   Records. The Board shall keep minutes of the proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record.
      (7)   Administrative Services. The New River Soil and Water Conservation
District office shall serve the Agricultural Advisory Board for recordkeeping,
correspondence, application procedures under this section together with such
other services the Board needs to complete its duties.
   (D)   Duties. The Agricultural Advisory Board shall:
      (1)   Review and approve applications for qualified farmland and
voluntary agricultural districts.
      (2)   Hold public hearings pursuant to §
161.10.
      (3)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on projects, programs, or issues
affecting the agricultural economy or activities within the county that will
affect agricultural districts.
      (4)   Perform other related tasks or duties assigned by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.10 PUBLIC HEARINGS ON CONDEMNATION OF FARMLAND.
   (A)   Purpose. Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, no state or local public agency
or governmental unit may formally initiate any action to condemn any interest
in qualifying farmland within a voluntary agricultural district until such
agency or unit has requested the Agricultural Advisory Board to hold a public
hearing on the proposed condemnation. The procedures for such hearings shall be
as set forth below.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Establish Public Hearing. Upon receipt of a request for a public
hearing, the Agricultural Advisory Board shall have 30 days to set a date for a
public hearing on the proposed condemnation pursuant to G.S. § 106-740. No
formal initiation of condemnation shall be initiated while the proposed
condemnation is properly before the Board within the time limitations set forth
in this section.
      (2)   Notice of Public Hearing.  The Board shall run a notice of the
public hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the county at least
ten days prior to the date established for the hearing. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the hearing and shall provide the name of
the agency requesting the hearing and the purpose of the condemnation.
      (3)   Public Hearing. The Advisory Board shall conduct the public hearing
and receive information and comments from the agency requesting the
condemnation action and the citizens of the county. Additionally, the Board
shall review the following:
         (a)   Has the need for the project requiring the condemnation been
satisfactorily shown by the agency requesting the action?
         (b)   Has a financial impact analysis been conducted by the agency
seeking the action?
         (c)   Have alternatives been considered to the proposed action that
are less disruptive to the agricultural activities and farmland base of the
voluntary agricultural district within which the proposed action is to take
place?
The Board shall invite and allow input by New River Soil and Water Conservation
District, the County Cooperative Extension Agent, U.S.D.A. Natural Resources
Conservationist, the Farm Service Agency, and may consult with any other
individuals, agencies or organizations, public or private, necessary to the
Board’s review of the proposed action.
      (4)   Findings and Notification. Within 30 days after the public hearing,
the Board shall make a report containing its findings and recommendations
regarding the proposed action. The report shall be conveyed to the decision-
making body of the agency proposing acquisition and made available to the
public for comment.
      (5)   Pursuant to G.S. § 106-740, the Board of Commissioners shall not
permit any formal initiation of condemnation by local agencies while the
proposed condemnation is properly before the Advisory Board within these time
limitations.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.11 LAND USE INCENTIVES TO VOLUNTARY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT FORMATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to help meet the needs of
agriculture as an industry and prevent conflicts between voluntary agricultural
district participants and non-farm landowners in proximity to districts.
   (B)   Public Notification.
      (1)   The Advisory Board, in cooperation with the county, shall take
measures as set forth below to provide notification to property owners,
residents, and other interested persons in and adjacent to any designated
agricultural district with a goal of informing all current and potential
residents and property owners in and adjacent to an agricultural district, that
farming and agricultural activities may take place in this district any time
during the day or night.
         (a)   Signs identifying approved agricultural districts shall be
placed along the rights-of- way of major roads.
         (b)   Information identifying approved districts shall be provided to
the Register of Deeds Office, the New River Soil and Water Conservation
District, the Cooperative Extension Service, the Farm Service Agency, the Ashe
County Planning and Inspections Department, and the Ashe County Tax Department.
         (c)   The following notice shall be displayed in a prominent position
in the office of the Register of Deeds and the public access area in the Ashe
County Tax Department:
NOTICE TO REAL ESTATE PURCHASERS IN ASHE COUNTY
ASHE COUNTY AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
Ashe County has established agricultural districts to protect and preserve
agricultural lands and activities. These districts have been developed and
mapped to inform all purchasers of real property that certain agricultural
activities, including but not limited to pesticide spraying, manure spreading,
machinery and truck operations, livestock operations, sawing, and similar
activities may take place in these districts any time during the day or night.
Maps and/or in-formation on the location and establishment of these districts
can be obtained from the Cooperative Extension Service, County Planning and
Inspections Department, Natural Resources Conservation Service, the Farm
Service Agency, and the County Tax Department.
      (2)   Limit of Liability. In no event shall the county or any of its
officers, employees, or agents be held liable in damages for any misfeasance,
malfeasance, or nonfeasance occurring in good faith in connection with the
duties or obligations imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   Expenditure of County Funds for Non-Farm Uses. Prior to expending any
monies which would convert land in a voluntary agricultural district to non-
farm uses, the county or any other local unit of government shall submit to the
Advisory Board detailed information showing that said governmental unit has
considered alternatives. Such consideration shall include the criteria listed
in §
161.10(B)(3)(a through c).
   (D)   Waiver of Water and Sewer Assessments.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection is to help mitigate the
financial impacts on farmers by some local and state capital investments unused
by such farmers.
      (2)   Procedure. The waiver procedure shall be as follows:
         (a)    Landowners belonging to voluntary agricultural districts shall
not be assessed for, or required to connect to, water and/or sewer systems.
         (b)   Water and sewer assessments shall be held in abeyance, without
interest, for farms inside a voluntary agricultural district, until
improvements on such property are connected to the water or sewer system for
which the assessment was made.
         (c)   When the period of abeyance ends, the assessment is payable in
accordance with the terms set out in the assessment resolution.
         (d)   Statutes of limitations are suspended during the time that any
assessment is held in abeyance without interest.
         (e)   Assessment procedures followed under G.S. § 153A-185 et seq.
shall conform to the terms of this section with respect to qualifying farms
that entered into preservation agreements while such section was in effect.
         (f)   Nothing in this subsection is intended to diminish the authority
of the county to hold assessments in abeyance under G.S. § 153A-201.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.12 NORTH CAROLINA AGENCY NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Consultation with N.C. Department of Agriculture and Other Agencies.
The Board may consult with the New River Soil and Water Conservation District,
the Cooperative Extension office, the Natural Resources Conservation Service
office, the Farm Service Agency office, the N.C. Department of Agriculture, and
any other such agency the Board deems necessary to properly conduct its
business.
   (B)   Recording the Program Document. An official copy of the program
document shall be recorded with the North Carolina Commissioner of
Agriculture’s office after adoption. At least once a year, the county shall
submit a written report to the Commissioner of Agriculture, including the
status, progress and activities of the county’s farmland preservation program,
and voluntary agricultural districting information regarding:
      (1)   Number of landowners enrolled;
      (2)   Number of acres applied;
      (3)   Number of acres certified;
      (4)   Number of acres denied, and
      (5)   Date certified.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
§ 161.13 LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, subsection, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter is for any reason invalid or unconstitutional as determined by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this chapter.
   (B)   Amendments.  This chapter may be amended from time to time after a
public hearing, notice of which shall be sent to program participants by first
class mail 30 days prior to the hearing, and in consultation with the
Agricultural Advisory Board to the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-16-01; Am. Ord. passed 5-2-22)
CHAPTER 162: ASHE COUNTY AIRPORT (KGEV)
Section
   
162.01   Title
   
162.02   Authority
   
162.03   Jurisdiction
   
162.04   Purposes
   
162.05   Definitions and word interpretation
   
162.06   Districts
   
162.07   Use restrictions
   
162.08   Nonconforming uses
   
162.09   Issuance of a building permit
   
162.10   Enforcement
   
162.11   Separability
   
162.12   Appeals
   
162.13   Conflict of interest
   
162.14   Effective date
 
   
162.99   Penalty
§ 162.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Ashe County Airport (KGEV) Ordinance of
Ashe County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.02 AUTHORITY.
   This Chapter is adopted by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners under
authority and provisions of G.S. § 160D-901.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.03 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall govern all land in the vicinity of the airport,
which shall not include any land within the jurisdiction of any municipality.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.04 PURPOSES.
   (A)   The Ashe County Airport (KGEV) District (ACAD) is established as a
regulatory district in the vicinity of the airport. The purposes of the ACAD
are to protect the airport environs from encroachment of incompatible land uses
which present hazards to users of the airport as well as to persons residing or
working in the airport vicinity. The regulations imposed in the ACAD are
designed to place height restrictions on buildings, structures, and trees.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to restrain influences which are
adverse to the property and safe conduct of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport, to prevent creation of conditions hazardous to aircraft operation, to
prevent conflict with land development which may result in a loss of life and
property, and to encourage development which is compatible with airport use
characteristics. To this end, the ACAD designation is intended to coordinate
the purpose and intent of this section with other regulations duly established
by Ashe County whose primary intent is to further the purposes set out above.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.05 DEFINITIONS AND WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. Jefferson / Ashe County Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The highest point of an airport's useable landing area
measured in feet above mean sea level. The Jefferson / Ashe County Airport
elevation equals 3,177.5 MSL.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope as set forth
in Chapter Four, Ashe County Airport (KGEV) Overlay District.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000
feet.
   CONICAL ZONE. A conical zone is established on the area that commences at
the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom for a
distance of 4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safety and efficient utilization of the navigable
airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in the airport
height restrictive area, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless
otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincided with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   HORIZONTAL ZONE. The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
5,000 feet radii from the center of the end of the primary surface of the
runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.
   MSL. Mean Sea Level.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of the chapter or
amendment thereto.
   NON-PRECISION APPROACH ZONE. The inner edge of this approach zone coincides
with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone
expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet, at a horizontal distance of
10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the
centerline of the runway.
   NON-PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY.A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment for which a straight-in non-
precision instrument approach procedure has been planned or approved.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limited height set forth in §
162.06.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. The primary
surface extends 200 feet beyond each end of that runway. The elevation of any
point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point
on the runway centerline. The width of the primary surface is 500 feet.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including but not limited to: buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITION SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at right angles (90
degree angles) to the runway centerline and extend at a slope of seven feet
horizontally for each one foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
   TRANSITIONAL ZONES. The transitional zones are the area beneath the
transitional surfaces.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   VISUAL APPROACH ZONE. The inner edge approach zone coincides with the width
of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward
uniformly to a width of 2,000 feet at a horizontal distance of 5,000 feet from
the primary surface. Its centerline is the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.06 DISTRICTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no structure shall be erected,
altered or maintained, and no trees shall be allowed to grow in any district
created by this section to a height in excess of the applicable height
limitations herein established for each district in question as follows:
   (A)   Approach Zone - ACAD-A:
      Runway 28 = slopes 34 feet outward for each one foot upward beginning at
the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a
horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
      Runway 10 = slopes 20 feet outward for each one foot upward beginning at
the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and extending to a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline.
   (B)   Transitional Zones - ACAD-T:
      Slopes seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the side of
and at the same elevation as the primary surface and the approach surface, and
extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation or 3,333 feet
above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing, there are established
height limits sloping seven feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the
sides and at the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where
they intersect the horizontal surface.
   (C)   Horizontal Zone - ACAD-H:
      Established at 150 feet above the airport or at an elevation of 3,333
feet above mean sea level.
   (D)   Conical Zones - ACAD-C:
      Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the periphery of
the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport elevation and extending
to an elevation of 3,533 feet above mean sea level. There are four conical
zones (ACAD-C-A, ACAD-C-B, ACAD-C-C, and ACAD-C-D) 1,000 feet horizontally each
and rise 50 feet in elevation. The maximum height of any structure within the
conical zone is as follows:
         ACAD-C-A = 3,333 feet MSL
         ACAD-C-B = 3,383 feet MSL
         ACAD-C-C = 3,433 feet MSL
         ACAD-C-D = 3,483 feet MSL
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.07 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of
land or water within any district established by this chapter in such a manner
as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and others, resulting in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or
interfere with the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to
use the airport.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.08 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
chapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other change
or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of
the effective date of this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance
of a nonconforming use.
   (B)   Markings and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the airport and the Ashe
County Board of Commissioners to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the
vicinity of the airport the presence of such airport obstruction.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24) Penalty, see §
162.99
§ 162.09 ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Ashe County Building Inspections Department shall not issue a building
permit within an ACAD-A, ACAD-T, ACAD-H, or ACAD-C area until it has been
determined that the proposal upon which they are requested to act is in
compliance with the terms of these regulations.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1), (2),
and (3) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land, and no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established unless a permit has been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient information
particularly to determine whether the resulting use or structure would conform
to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
      (1)   In the area lying within the limits of horizontal zone and conical
zone, no permit shall be required for any structure less than 100 feet of
vertical height above the ground except when because of terrain, land contour
or topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height
limits prescribed for such zones.
      (2)   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runway, no
permit shall be required for any structure less than 100 feet of vertical
height above the ground except when, because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, such tree or structure would extend above the height
limits prescribed for such zones.
      (3)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones, no
permit shall be required for any structures less than 100 feet above the
ground, except when such structure because of terrain, land contour or
topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for such
transition zones.
      (4)   Amateur radio operators must comply with Part 97 of FCC
regulations.
   Nothing contained in any of the foregoing exceptions shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration of any structure
in excess of any height limits established by this chapter except as set forth
in §
162.06.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an obstruction, or permit a nonconforming use,
structure to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the
effective date of this chapter, or any amendments thereto, or than it is when
the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses, abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the county
determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been abandoned for 180
days, or more than 60% has been torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed,
said structure or tree shall lose its nonconforming status and at such time
shall be brought into compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Variances. For no reason shall any variance be granted from the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Ashe County Planning Department to administer
and enforce the regulations prescribed herein.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.11 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.12 APPEALS.
   An applicant requesting approval of a structure or use of land who are
aggrieved by a decision by the Planning Department may appeal said decision to
the Board of Adjustment. The appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Board
of Adjustment within 30 calendar days of receipt of notice of decision. If
notice of decision is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is received on the
third business day after it is sent (see G.S. § 160D-405(c)).
   (A)   During an appeal, the official who made the decision (or their
successor if the official is no longer employed) must appear as witness to the
appeal, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-406.
   (B)   All enforcement actions, including fines, must be paused during an
appeal (see G.S. § 160D-405).
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.13 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective July 15, 2024.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
§ 162.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this Chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day's continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§§ 153A-123 and 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory
injunctions and for abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-24)
CHAPTER 163: WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
163.01   Title
   
163.02   Authority and purpose
   
163.03   Territorial coverage
   
163.04   Definitions
Regulations
   
163.20   Small wind energy systems
   
163.21   Large wind energy systems
Permits
   
163.35   Permit required
   
163.36   Permitting process
Appeals and Variances
   
163.50   Board of Adjustment
   
163.51   Powers of Board of Adjustment
   
163.52   Administration
   
163.53   Quorum and vote required
   
163.54   Application of the variance power
   
163.55   Application of interpretation power
   
163.56   Appeal stays further proceedings
   
163.57   Exceptions to stay of action
   
163.58   Appeals of Board actions
Enforcement
   
163.75   Administration and enforcement
   
163.76   Interference
   
163.77   Conflict with other laws
   
163.78   Conflict of interest
   
163.79   Severability
   
163.80   Chapter amendments
   
163.81   Effective date
 
   
163.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 163.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ashe County Wind Energy
System Ordinance.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.02 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Inasmuch as Ashe County has determined that certain windmills are possibly
exempt under the North Carolina Mountain Ridge Protection Act as codified under
G.S. Chapter 113A, Article 14, and pursuant to the authority granted to
counties by G.S. §160D-910 and other pertinent statutes and amendments thereto,
it is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the use of wind energy systems
and to describe the conditions by which a permit for installing such a system
may be obtained.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.03 TERRITORIAL COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated areas of Ashe County.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL FARM. A place, premises, or property the primary purpose and
use of which is activities or operations involving the cultivation of crops,
husbandry of livestock or poultry, or any other agricultural activity or
operation, whether agronomic, floricultural, horticultural, viticultural,
silvicultural, aquacultural, dairy farming, animal operations under G.S. §143-
215.10B(1), or otherwise.
   BUSINESS. A commercial trade or enterprise in regular operation, including
but not limited to retail, wholesale, manufacturing, industrial, agricultural,
financial, professional, and other similar trades or operations.
   CREST. The uppermost line of a mountain or chain of mountains from which the
land falls away on at least two sides to a lower elevation or elevations.
   COUNTY. The County of Ashe.
   LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of one
or more wind turbine(s), a tower(s), and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a rated capacity of more than 20 kW.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The person or department designated by the Ashe
County Board of Commissioners to be responsible for administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. A firm, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership,
limited liability company, association, sole proprietor, individual, individual
acting on behalf of another, or any other entity of any type whatsoever.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Ashe County Planning Board, or for purposes of
administration and enforcement of this chapter, such person as the Planning
Board may duly designate.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road, highway, or street which is not a public road as
defined below but which is shown as a road, highway, or street on the county's
NG-911 system or on a plat recorded in the Ashe County Register of Deeds
office.
   PROTECTED MOUNTAIN RIDGE. Any mountain ridge whose elevation is 500 feet or
more above the elevation of an adjacent valley floor.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road, highway, or street which is now or hereafter
designated and maintained by the N.C. Department of Transportation as part of
the State Highway System; or which is maintained by a municipality pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 15; or which is located wholly or partly in a
subdivision which has been duly approved pursuant to the Ashe County
Subdivision Ordinance.
   RIDGE. The elongated crest or series of crests at the apex or uppermost
point of intersection between two opposite slopes or sides of a mountain,
including all land within 100 feet below the elevation of any portion of such
line or surface along the crest.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system consisting of a
single wind turbine, a tower, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which has a rated capacity of not more than 20 kW. Multiple small wind energy
systems located on agricultural farms are considered to be separate small wind
energy systems even if the aggregate rated capacity exceeds 20 kW, provided
that the primary intent is to generate power to reduce on-site consumption.
   UTILITIES COMMISSION. The North Carolina Utilities Commission as established
under G.S. Chapter 62, Article 2, Organization of Utilities Commission.
   WIND TURBINE HEIGHT. The height above grade to the tip of the turbine blade
when it reaches its highest elevation.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
REGULATIONS
§ 163.20 SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Small wind energy systems shall be a permitted use by right subject to the
requirements set forth in this section:
   (A)   Wind turbine height. Wind turbine height shall be limited to 135 feet.
   (B)   Setback. The base of the wind turbine shall be set back from
surrounding property lines by a distance at least equal to 1-1/2 times the
height of the wind turbine. Relief from this section may be granted if the
applicant can secure a permanent easement from the adjoining property owner(s)
providing for a fall zone.
   (C)   Clearance. Rotor blades on wind turbines must maintain at least 24
feet of clearance between their lowest point and the ground.
   (D)   Building permit requirements. A building permit shall be required and
building permit applications for small wind energy systems shall be accompanied
by standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the tower, base,
and footings. An engineering analysis of the tower certified by a licensed
professional engineer which includes standards for ice/wind loading shall also
be submitted. This analysis may be supplied by the manufacturer. Wet stamps
shall not be required.
   (E)   Compliance with FAA regulations. Small wind energy systems must comply
with applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for
installations close to airports. Evidence of compliance or non-applicability
shall be submitted with the application for a building permit.
   (F)   Utility notification. No small wind energy system shall be installed
until evidence has been furnished that the applicable utility company has been
informed of the customer's intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Such evidence shall be in the form of a written verification from
the utility company and shall be furnished along with the application for a
building permit. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
   (G)   Appearance. Towers and rotor blades for small wind energy systems
shall maintain such finish or be painted in such manner as to conform the tower
color and appearance to the surrounding environment to reduce visual
obtrusiveness. No such tower shall have any signage, writing, or pictures that
may be construed as advertising placed on it at any time. In addition, no
flags, streamers, or decorative items shall be attached to a small wind energy
system tower or turbine.
   (H)   Removal of nonfunctional or abandoned small wind energy systems. Any
small wind energy system which is nonfunctional or abandoned for a continuous
period of six months shall be repaired and placed back in operation by the
owner or operator, or else the same shall be removed. The Planning Board shall
notify the owner or operator of the small wind energy system by registered mail
and provide 45 days for a written response. In such response, the owner or
operator shall set forth reasons for the operational difficulty and provide a
reasonable timetable for corrective action. If the Planning Board deems the
timetable for corrective action to be unreasonable, it shall notify the owner
or operator, and the owner or operator shall remove the small wind energy
system within 120 days of receipt of said notice, at the owner or operator's
expense.
   (I)   Removal of illegal small wind energy systems. Any small wind energy
system which remains in violation of this chapter following the expiration of
the time for corrective action as established by the Planning Board under §§
163.75 through
163.79, and §
163.99, shall be removed. In said event the Planning Board shall so notify the
owner or operator of the small wind energy system, and such owner or operator
shall remove the small wind energy system within 120 days of receipt of said
notice.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.21 LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   Large wind energy systems shall be a use permitted by review and issuance of
a permit, subject to the requirements of this section.
   (A)   General requirements. Large wind energy systems shall comply at all
times with the following requirements:
      (1)   Same requirements as for small wind energy systems. Large wind
energy systems shall meet all of the requirements of §
163.20 for small wind energy systems with the exception of wind turbine height,
setbacks, and removal. Requirements for wind turbine height, setbacks, and
removal shall be as set forth in this §
163.21.
      (2)   Wind turbine height. The maximum wind turbine height for a large
wind energy system shall be as approved by the Planning Board but shall in no
event be more than 199 feet.
   (B)   Spacing requirements.
      (1)   No portion of a permitted large wind energy system shall be located
within 1,000 feet of the property lines of any property adjoining the tract or
tracts on which the large wind energy system is located; provided, that this
requirement shall not apply to property owned or leased by the owner or
operator of the large wind energy system if such property continues to be so
owned or leased at all times while the large wind energy system remains
permitted and/or in operation.
      (2)   In order to establish permitted locations, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
from that portion of the large wind energy system which is closest to the
nearest parcel boundary of the adjoining property. Presence of a city, county,
or other political subdivision boundary shall be irrelevant for purposes of
calculating and applying the spacing requirements of this section.
Certification of the location of a large wind energy system will be
accomplished by a registered land surveyor.
   (C)   Spacing requirements - waiver. The owners of an adjoining property as
specified in division (B) above may waive all or any portion of the spacing
requirements set forth therein. The waiver shall be in writing and shall be in
the form of an easement. The waiver shall be signed by all of the owners of
said adjoining property and, where said adjoining property or any portion
thereof is the subject of a written lease agreement, by all lessees thereunder.
The waiver shall also be signed by the owner(s) or operator(s) of the large
wind energy system, and, if different, by all of the owners of the tract(s) of
property on which the large wind energy system is situated. The waiver shall
further be signed by the County Attorney, whose signature shall serve as a
certification that the requirements of this subsection above have been met. All
of said signatures shall be notarized, whereupon the waiver shall be recorded
in the Ashe County Register of Deeds Office at the expense of the owner(s) or
operator(s) of the large wind energy system. Following such recording, the
spacing requirements of division (B) as between said adjoining property and
said large wind energy system shall be deemed amended to conform to the
provisions of the waiver. The easement granted by said waiver shall be
appurtenant to and run with the land and shall be binding on the parties, their
heirs, successors, and assigns; provided, that the same shall by its express
provisions terminate at such time as said large wind energy system ceases to
have a valid permit under this chapter. The Planning Board shall, in the event
a large wind energy system for which a waiver has been recorded ceases to have
a valid permit, cause an instrument to be recorded in the Ashe County Register
of Deeds Office evidencing the same.
   (D)   Setbacks from public and private roads. No portion of a large wind
energy system shall be situated closer to the traveled portion of a public or
private road than 1-1/2 times the height of the tallest wind turbine situated
on the tract(s) of property on which the large wind energy system is located.
This division (D) shall not apply to that portion of a private road or driveway
which serves as access to a large wind energy system, as determined in the
discretion of the Planning Board.
   (E)   Setbacks from streams, creeks, branches, and rivers. All large wind
energy systems shall comply with state and federal requirements for setbacks
from streams, creeks, branches, rivers, and other surface waters, and, where
required by state laws, rules, or regulations, shall at all times possess a
valid permit from the North Carolina Division of Water Quality with respect to
the same.
   (F)   Mountain ridge protection. No portion of a large wind energy system
shall be located or maintained on any portion of the ridge of a protected
mountain ridge if the wind turbine height exceeds the top of the vegetative
canopy surrounding such large wind energy system by more than 35 feet.
   (G)   Noise. The aggregate noise and/or audible sound of a large wind energy
system shall not exceed five decibels above the existing average noise/decibel
level on adjacent properties; provided, that in no event shall the aggregate
noise and/or audible sound of a large wind energy system exceed 45 decibels as
measured in any area surrounding the wind turbine site except on the property
owned or leased for operation of the large wind energy system. Potential noise
levels shall be determined by a duly licensed North Carolina engineer as
approved by the Planning Board.
   (H)   Utility lines. That portion of the utility lines servicing a large
wind energy system which are situated on the tract(s) of property on which the
large wind energy system is located shall, insofar as is possible, and to the
extent not otherwise prohibited by federal or state laws, rules, or
regulations, be placed underground.
   (I)   Removal of large wind energy systems. If at any point the site permit
for a large wind energy system ceases to be effective as provided under §
163.36(E), the Planning Board shall notify the owner or operator of the same to
dismantle and remove it from the premises and to restore the premises, as
nearly as practicable, to its condition prior to placement of the large wind
energy system thereon. The Planning Board may impose such conditions and
deadlines on the owner or operator of the large wind energy system as may be
reasonable in order to accomplish the foregoing. In addition, the Planning
Board shall be authorized to utilize such funds for the above stated purposes
and to draw on such bond as may have been set aside or furnished by the owner
or operator of the large wind energy system pursuant to §
163.36(A)(8).
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
PERMITS
§ 163.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Large wind energy systems. No person shall establish, place, operate,
maintain, expand, or enlarge a large wind energy system without a site permit
as required hereunder. The application for, issuance of, and all other matters
pertaining to such site permit shall be governed by the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Small wind energy systems. No person shall establish, place, operate,
maintain, expand, or enlarge a small wind energy system without a site permit
as required hereunder; provided, that the only provisions of this §
163.35 which shall apply to such site permits shall be §
163.36(C) (Issuance or denial of permit), §
163.36(D) (Conditions of permit), §
163.36(E) (Duration of permit), §
163.36(F) (Transferability of permit), §
163.36(G) (Alterations and expansions), and §
163.36(H) (Revocation of permit); provided, further, that applications for site
permits for small wind energy systems shall be on such forms as shall be
developed by the Planning Board and shall require only such information as is
pertinent to the regulations for small wind energy systems under §
163.20.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.36 PERMITTING PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit application. A person seeking a permit for a large wind energy
system shall file an application with the Planning Board for review as follows.
An applicant must be the person(s) with an interest in the property or a
contract to purchase the property. Permit approvals run with the land.
      (1)   Background information. An applicant for a site permit must provide
the following background information regarding the applicant:
         (a)   A letter of transmittal signed by an authorized representative
or agent of the applicant.
         (b)   The complete name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address
of the applicant and any authorized representative.
         (c)   The signature of the person who prepared the application, if
prepared by an agent or consultant of the applicant.
         (d)   The role of the permit applicant in the construction and
operation of the wind power project.
         (e)   The identity of any other wind power project located in the
state in which the applicant, or a principal of the applicant, has an ownership
or other financial interest; the operator of the wind power project if
different from the applicant; and the name of the person or persons to be the
permittee if a site permit is issued.
      (2)   Certificate of public convenience and necessity. The applicant
shall state in the application whether a certificate of public convenience and
necessity for the system is required from the Utilities Commission and, if so,
the anticipated schedule for obtaining the certificate. The county may ask the
Utilities Commission to determine whether a certificate of public convenience
and necessity is required for a particular wind power project for which the
county has received a site permit application. The county shall not approve a
project requiring a certificate unless and until such certificate is issued by
the Utilities Commission. If a certificate is not required from the Utilities
Commission, the permit applicant shall include with the application a
discussion of what the applicant intends to do with the power that is
generated.
      (3)   Compliance with state policy. The applicant shall describe in the
application how the proposed wind power project furthers state policy to site
such projects in an orderly manner compatible with environmental preservation,
sustainable development, and the efficient use of resources.
      (4)   Site information. The applicant shall include the following
information about the site proposed for the wind power project and any
associated facilities:
         (a)   The surveyed boundaries of the site proposed for the wind power
project.
         (b)   The location of other wind turbines in the general area of the
proposed wind power project.
         (c)   The applicant's land rights both within and outside the
boundaries of the proposed site, including acquisition by the applicant of all
necessary utility easements for transmission lines serving the wind power
project.
      (5)   Design information. The applicant shall provide the following
information regarding the design of the proposed wind power project:
         (a)   A project layout, prepared by a design professional, including a
map showing the proposed location of the turbine(s).
         (b)   A description of the turbine(s) and tower(s) and other equipment
proposed to be used in the wind power project, including the name of the
manufacturers of the equipment.
         (c)   A description of the project electrical system, including
transformers at both low voltage and medium voltage.
         (d)   A description and location of associated facilities, including
but not limited to the building or buildings for operational monitoring of the
wind turbine facilities.
         (e)   Photographs of a clearly visible balloon floated at the site of
the proposed large wind energy system to the maximum height of the tallest wind
turbine to be located thereon, taken from such locations as property lines,
roadways, and other locations deemed necessary by the Planning Board in order
to assess the visual impact of the same.
      (6)   Impact analysis. The applicant shall include with the application
an approved independent analysis of the potential impacts of the wind power
project, proposed measures to mitigate impacts, and any adverse environmental
effects, together with an analysis of the effects of the same on the
applicant's ability to comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter,
in the following areas:
         (a)   Demographics, including people, homes, and businesses.
         (b)   Noise.
         (c)   Visual impacts.
         (d)   Public services and infrastructure.
         (e)   Cultural and archaeological impacts.
         (f)   Recreational resources.
         (g)   Public health and safety, including air traffic, electromagnetic
fields, and security and traffic.
         (h)   Hazardous materials.
         (i)   Land-based economics, including agriculture, forestry, and
mining.
         (j)   Tourism and community benefits.
         (k)   Job creation and ad valorem tax projections.
         (l)   Topography.
         (m)   Soils.
         (n)   Geologic and groundwater resources.
         (o)   Surface water and floodplain resources.
         (p)   Wetlands.
         (q)   Vegetation.
         (r)   Avian impact assessment, including an indication of the type and
number of birds and bats that are known or suspected to use a project site and
the area surrounding that site.
         (s)   Wildlife.
         (t)   Rare and unique natural resources.
      (7)   Construction, operation, maintenance, and insurance information.
The permit applicant shall describe and/or provide evidence of compliance with
all of the following:
         (a)   The manner in which the wind power project, including associated
facilities, will be constructed.
         (b)   How the wind power project will be operated and maintained after
construction, including a maintenance schedule.
         (c)   The anticipated schedule for completion of the wind power
project and the expected date of commencement of commercial operations.
         (d)   The energy expected to be generated by the wind power project.
         (e)   A certificate of general comprehensive liability insurance for
the applicant's proposed operations at the site of the proposed wind power
project, in such minimum amount as may be established by the Planning Board,
the same to be maintained in full force and effect at all times for as long as
the wind power project remains in operation, with such certificate being
furnished to the Planning Board in updated form throughout the life of the wind
power project.
      (8)   Decommissioning information. The applicant shall include the
following information regarding decommissioning of the wind power project and
restoring the site:
         (a)   The anticipated life of the wind power project.
         (b)   The estimated decommissioning costs in current dollars.
         (c)   The method and schedule for updating the costs of
decommissioning and restoration.
         (d)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration, including the details for establishment of a
removal fund and depositing or setting aside sufficient monies in said fund on
a sufficiently regular basis to pay for dismantling the large wind energy
system and restoring the site. The Planning Board shall require the applicant
to furnish a bond for this purpose, in such amount and by such surety as the
Planning Board and the applicant may mutually agree upon, payable to the county
and conditioned upon satisfactory completion by the applicant of the
dismantling and restoration requirements of this division (A)(8).
         (e)   The anticipated manner in which the wind power project will be
decommissioned and the site restored.
      (9)   Other permits and approvals. The applicant shall include in the
application a list of all known federal, state, and local agencies or
authorities from which permits or approvals must be obtained for the wind power
project or any aspect of its operations, structures, equipment, or
environmental impact, together with the titles of the permits and approvals.
      (10)   Blue Ridge Parkway. If the site for a proposed large wind energy
site is within the Blue Ridge Parkway view shed, the applicant shall inform the
National Park Service of the proposed wind turbine siting. Park service
recommendations shall be given reasonable consideration and documentation of
this consideration shall be provided to the county. The park service shall be
afforded 30 days to respond to the applicant's written intention to erect a
large wind energy system. No answer to the notification within the 30 days
shall be considered as an affirmation of the site as proposed. View shed shall
be determined by the county using maps and documents prepared for that purpose
by the Design Research Laboratory at N.C. State University and the Blue Ridge
Parkway Division of Resource Planning and Professional Services.
      (11)   State and national parks and forests. If the site for a proposed
large wind energy system is within the view shed of a state or national park or
forest, the applicant shall inform the National Park Service, the U.S. Forest
Service, or the appropriate state park system of the proposed wind turbine
siting. Recommendations from reviewing departments and agencies shall be given
reasonable consideration and documentation of this consideration shall be
provided to the county. Reviewing departments and agencies shall be afforded 30
days to respond to the applicant's written intention to erect a large wind
energy system. No answer to the notification within the 30 days shall be
considered as an affirmation of the site proposed. View shed shall be
determined by the county using maps and documents prepared for that purpose by
the Design Research Laboratory at N.C. State University with consultation with
the appropriate national or state department or agency.
      (12)   Application fee. The application shall be accompanied by such fee
as shall have been established by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners.
      (13)   Certifications. The application shall contain certifications by
the applicant that:
         (a)   The large wind energy system use for which the permit is being
requested will at all times comply with the applicable regulations and
standards imposed under this chapter.
         (b)   The proposed large wind energy system is properly permitted
under and complies with, and at all times will be maintained and operated and
will continue to be permitted under, all rules, regulations, and other
requirements imposed by any other applicable regulatory agency or governmental
body, whether federal, state, or local.
         (c)   The proposed large wind energy system will not adversely affect
the health or safety of persons living or working in the vicinity of the same,
nor will it be detrimental to the public welfare.
         (d)   The applicant has not constructed, maintained, operated, or
modified any large wind energy system within Ashe County without the approval
of the county.
         (e)   No permit issued to the applicant under this chapter, or under
any successor ordinance hereto, has ever been revoked.
         (f)   The applicant is the owner or lessee of the tract or tracts on
which the large wind energy system is located or is proposed to be located, and
will continue to be the owner or lessee of the same for so long as the large
wind energy system is situated thereon unless recommended otherwise by the
Planning Board and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Hearing required. Prior to granting or denying a permit for a large
wind energy system, the Planning Board shall conduct a public hearing. The
purpose of the hearing shall be to receive comments and information pertinent
to the applicant's compliance or ability to comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Comments and information not pertinent shall not be considered.
The Planning Board shall cause notice of the hearing to be published once a
week for two successive calendar weeks prior to the same. The notice shall be
published the first time not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days before the
date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of publication is
not to be included but the day of the hearing shall be included. The Planning
Board shall also cause notice of the hearing to be mailed by registered mail,
return receipt requested, to the owners of all tracts adjoining the site of the
proposed large wind energy system.
   (C)   Issuance or denial of permit. No later than 30 days following the
public hearing, the Planning Board shall render a decision on the application
and shall notify the applicant and property owner (if different) in writing as
to the same. The decision of the Planning Board shall be made in accordance
with the following requirements:
      (1)   If the Planning Board determines that the application fails to meet
one or more of the requirements of this chapter, or that any one or more of the
certifications in §
163.36(A)(13) above cannot truthfully and correctly be made or reasonably
complied with, the application shall be denied. Written notification of the
denial from the Planning Board to the applicant shall note the reason(s) for
the denial and shall refer to the specific section(s) of this chapter with
which the application does not comply. The applicant shall have 60 days from
receipt of said written notification to bring the application into compliance,
in which event the provisions of division (C)(3) below shall apply. If the
applicant fails to do so within said period of 60 days, the applicant shall be
required to file a new application, or, in the alternative, the applicant may
file an appeal under §
163.50 through §
163.58. The Planning Board shall provide written notification to the applicant
as to the Planning Board's decision with regard to any attempts by the
applicant to bring the application into compliance.
      (2)   An application for a permit shall further be denied upon a
determination by the Planning Board that said application or information
submitted in connection therewith contains a material misrepresentation, either
of commission or omission.
      (3)   If the Planning Board determines that the application meets all of
the requirements of this chapter, that all of the certifications in §
163.36(A)(13) above are truthfully and correctly made and can reasonably be
complied with, and that the application does not violate the provisions of
division (C)(2) above, the Planning Board shall issue a permit to the
applicant. The permit shall note thereon the effective date of issuance.
      (4)   If the Planning Board fails within the above stated period of 60
days to notify the applicant as to what action has been taken, the applicant
shall be entitled to appeal to the Board of Commissioners for a decision on the
application. Such appeal shall be governed by the provisions of §§
163.50 through
163.58.
   (D)   Conditions of permit. Each permit approved hereunder shall be issued
on condition that:
      (1)   The certifications contained in the application are true and
correct and reasonably able to be complied with, and, if continuing in nature,
shall at all times remain so;
      (2)   The application, and information submitted in support of the same,
contains no material misrepresentation, either of commission or omission;
      (3)   The applicant is and will at all times remain in compliance with
the terms and conditions of the permit and with all requirements of this
chapter;
      (4)   The large wind energy system for which the permit is issued will
not cease or discontinue operation for a period of 180 or more consecutive
days; and
      (5)   The applicant will at all times comply with any request of the
county for information and verification concerning the establishment and
sufficiency of the removal fund or bond as required under §
163.36(A)(8) above.
   (E)   Duration of permit. A site permit under §
163.35, §
163.36 shall be deemed to be effective on the date of issuance as set forth
above and shall continue in effect without having to be renewed, unless and
until such time as:
      (1)   Said permit is revoked pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;
or
      (2)   Said permit is voluntarily surrendered by the holder thereof, in
which event the same shall be deemed to have terminated on the date it is
surrendered; or
      (3)   The large wind energy system for which the permit was issued ceases
operation, or is otherwise discontinued, for 180 or more consecutive days, in
which event the permit shall be deemed to have automatically terminated at the
end of said 180 days.
   (F)   Transferability of permit. No permit issued hereunder may be assigned
or transferred by the holder to any other person, nor may a permit be
transferred to any large wind energy system other than the large wind energy
system for which it was issued, without the prior recommendation of the
Planning Board and approval of the Board of Commissioners.
   (G)   Alterations and expansions. Any alteration, addition to, expansion, or
enlargement of a large wind energy system shall require the application for and
issuance of a new site permit hereunder, which permit shall be applicable to
the entire large wind energy system as altered, added to, expanded, or
enlarged. For purposes of this §
163.36, an alteration, addition to, expansion, or enlargement of a large wind
energy system shall be deemed to require a new site permit if it is such as to
require the issuance of a building permit, zoning permit, environmental health
permit, watershed permit, or other permit or approval from any state or federal
agency or authority.
   (H)   Revocation of permit. The Planning Board may revoke a permit upon
meeting all the requirements of § 160D-403(f).
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 163.50 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment, as established by G.S. §160D-405 shall hear all
appeals, requests for variances, and all challenges to a decision or
interpretation under this chapter by the Planning Board.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.51 POWERS OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Appeals. To hear, decide and review appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, or determination made by the Planning Board in the
performance of its duties hereunder, including appeals from the Planning
Board's failure to notify an applicant and the property owner as to the
Planning Board's decision on an application within 30 days under §
163.36(C).
   (B)   Variances. To hear and decide applications for variances from the
requirements of this chapter in accordance with §
163.54. Nothing in this division shall be construed to broaden the power of the
Board of Adjustment to permit a use by variance beyond that power given in §
163.54.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.52 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules of
procedures and regulations for the conduct of its affairs.
   (B)   Meetings. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be open to the
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep a record of its meetings, including
of the vote of each member on every question, a fair and accurate summary of
the evidence submitted to it, the documents (or accurate copies thereof)
submitted to it and of all official actions. The Board of Adjustment shall give
due notice of matters coming before it.
   (C)   Burden of proof. In presenting an appeal, the petitioner shall bear
the burden of proof, which shall be by the greater weight of the evidence.
   (D)   Evidence to be sworn. All evidence presented to the Board of
Adjustment shall be sworn.
   (E)   Oaths. The person acting as Chairman of the Board of Adjustment is
authorized to administer oaths to any witnesses in any matter coming before the
Board of Adjustment.
   (F)   Filing. Application for variances, requests for interpretations and
appeals for review of decisions of the Planning Board shall be filed with the
clerk for the Board of Adjustment, on forms provided by the clerk.
   (G)   Notification of disposition. It shall be the responsibility of the
Planning Board to notify the applicant and property owner by certified mail as
to the disposition which the Board of Adjustment makes of any matter before it.
   (H)   Issuance of permit. It shall be the responsibility of the Planning
Board to issue a permit in accordance with the action of the Board of
Adjustment on an appeal or application, if a permit is authorized by the
action.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.53 QUORUM AND VOTE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Quorum. A quorum of the Board of Adjustment, necessary to conduct any
business hereunder, shall consist of 4/5 of the total membership of the Board
of Adjustment (at least four of five members must be present to conduct any
business).
   (B)   Voting on other than variances. The concurring vote of a simple
majority of the total membership of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary
in order to:
      (1)   Reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Planning Board; or
      (2)   Decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
required to pass by this chapter, other than a variance.
   (C)   Voting on variances. The concurring vote of 4/5 of the total
membership of the Board of Commissioners shall be necessary in order to approve
an application for a variance.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.54 APPLICATION OF THE VARIANCE POWER.
   (A)   A variance shall only be allowed by the Board of Adjustment upon
findings as set forth in this section. Any authorizing of a variance shall not
destroy the intent of the chapter. Any authorized variance shall be recorded in
the minutes of the Board of Adjustment. A hardship, as used in the context of
this section, shall be considered to be some unique or unusual character of the
proposed site, including but not limited to unique size, shape, contour, or
space requirement. An economic hardship to the applicant is not to be
considered for a variance.
   (B)   The Board may grant a variance upon finding that the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Extraordinary and exceptional conditions exist pertaining to the
particular place or property in question because of its size, shape, or
topography, such that compliance with the chapter would cause an unnecessary
and unreasonable hardship to the applicant.
      (2)   The variance will not confer upon the applicant any special
privileges that are, or would be, denied to other similarly situated
individuals.
      (3)   This chapter would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed
by other similarly situated individuals.
      (4)   The variance would not seriously deter from the purpose and intent
of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the general
welfare.
      (5)   The special circumstances causing the need for variance(s) are not
the fault of the applicant.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may impose reasonable conditions upon the
granting of any variance in order to protect the public interest or neighboring
property owners. Violation of any such conditions shall be a violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties set forth in §
163.99 of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.55 APPLICATION OF INTERPRETATION POWER.
   An appeal from an order, requirement, or decision of the Planning Board
shall be decided by the Board of Adjustment duly supported by competent
evidence. In exercising this power, the Board of Adjustment shall act in a
prudent manner so that the purposes and intent of the chapter shall be served.
No decision shall have the effect of varying the terms of the chapter or
permitting as a matter of right any use otherwise limited or prohibited
hereunder.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.56 APPEAL STAYS FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment from a decision or determination of the
Planning Board stays all proceedings in furtherance of the decision or
determination appealed from, except as provided in §
163.57, during the pendency of the appeal.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.57 EXCEPTIONS TO STAY OF ACTION.
   (A)   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment of a decision or determination of
the Planning Board shall not stay proceedings in furtherance of the decision or
determination appealed from, if the Planning Board certifies either:
      (1)   That a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property; or
      (2)   That the situation subject to the appeal is transitory in nature
and therefore, an appeal would seriously interfere with enforcement of this
chapter. In that case, enforcement proceedings are not stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by a court.
   (B)   In each instance, the Planning Board shall set forth in the
certificate facts to support its conclusion.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.58 APPEALS OF BOARD ACTIONS.
   Every decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to review at the
instance of any aggrieved party in the Superior Court by proceedings in the
nature of a petition for writ of certiorari. Such proceedings in the Superior
Court shall be initiated within 30 days of the filing of the decision in the
office of the Board of Adjustment or the delivery of the notice required under
§
163.52 above, whichever is later. Appeals not received within said 30-day
period are not timely. The Superior Court is authorized to stay enforcement of
this chapter during the pendency of an appeal from the decision of the Board of
Adjustment upon a hearing and the posting of a bond sufficient to the court
which will adequately protect the interests of the county.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 163.75 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Planning Board shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. If the Planning Board shall determine that any of
the provisions of this chapter are being violated, it shall notify in writing
the person (if different from the property owner; pursuant to § 160D-404(a))
responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering that the action necessary to correct the violation be under taken
within ten working days and be completed within such reasonable time as the
Planning Board shall establish. The Planning Board may order the discontinuance
of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; the removal of illegal
buildings or structures or of addition, alterations, or structural changes
thereto; the discontinuance of any illegal work being done; and may take any
other action authorized by this chapter to insure compliance with, or to
prevent violation of, its provisions.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.76 INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, or harass the
employees, agents, or authorized representatives of the county in the
performance of their duties under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.77 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Wherever the provisions or application of this chapter impose higher
standards than are required in any other local ordinance or regulation, the
provisions or application of this chapter shall govern. Wherever the provisions
of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation impose higher standards
than are required by the provisions or application of this chapter, the
provisions of such other statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.78 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.79 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared by the courts to
be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
this chapter as a whole, or any part hereof other than the part so declared to
be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.80 CHAPTER AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended by the Board of Commissioners following a public
hearing on the proposed changes. The Board of Commissioners shall cause notice
of the hearing to be published once a week for two successive calendar weeks.
The notice shall be published the first time not less than 10 days nor more
than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing such period,
the day of publication is not to be included but the day of the hearing shall
be included.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.81 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective July 17, 2023.
(Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 163.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
CHAPTER 164: SIGN CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
164.01   Short title
   
164.02   Authority
   
164.03   Purpose
   
164.04   Jurisdiction
   
164.05   Definitions
Sign Regulations
   
164.20   Sign regulations
   
164.21   Signs exempted
   
164.22   Signs prohibited
   
164.23   Off-premises sign regulations
   
164.24   On-premises sign regulations
   
164.25   Temporary portable sign regulations
Sign Maintenance; Abandoned Signs; Tree Cutting
   
164.40   Maintenance
   
164.41   Unlawful cutting of trees or shrubs
   
164.42   Modification of support structures
Permits, Fees and Nonconforming Signs
   
164.55   Permits
   
164.56   Permit application
   
164.57   Permit fees
   
164.58   Permit revocations
   
164.59   Nonconforming signs
   
164.60   Notice given for refusing to issue permit
   
164.61   Reconstruction of damaged signs or sign structures
Administration; Enforcement; Appeals
   
164.75   Administration and enforcement
   
164.76   Appeals
Legal Status Provisions
   
164.90   Conflict with other laws
   
164.91   Variances
   
164.92   Noncommercial messages
   
164.93   Severability
   
164.94   Conflicts of interest
   
164.95   Effective date
 
   
164.99   Violations; penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 164.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Sign Control Chapter of Ashe
County, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.02 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority and provision conferred in G.S. § 160D-401(a), the
Ashe County Board of Commissioners hereby ordains and enacts into law this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To guide and regulate the construction and placement of signs in Ashe
County in order to preserve the scenic and aesthetic features and the quality
of life for the residents and visitors. The Board of Commissioners is aware of,
and sensitive to, the need for local businesses to adequately identify their
products and services and is committed to safeguarding the interests of local
businesses while providing reasonable regulations.
   (B)   To ensure the safety of the local and visiting motorist on the roads
in Ashe County by reducing the distracting influence of uncontrolled signs
throughout the county.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of Ashe County located outside any
incorporated city or extraterritorial jurisdiction. Municipalities within Ashe
County may elect to allow this chapter to be effective within their corporate
limits.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
   COPY. The characters, letters or illustrations displayed on a sign face.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN.  All off-premises signs providing directions to a
business, office or other activity. If a sign contains any additional message
for a business, office or other activity, it shall be construed as an off-
premises advertising sign.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN.  A sign designed to give forth artificial light
directly (or through transparent or translucent material) from a light source
within or attached to such sign.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A house, apartment or a group of homes occupied or intended
for occupancy as separate living quarters for one or more humans.
   EXEMPT SIGN. Any sign which is specifically listed as exempt from this
chapter. Exempt signs are not regulated by the terms of this chapter and shall
not require a permit.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. The general term for any sign which is supported from the
ground and not attached to a building.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign designed to have illumination from a
detached light source, shielded so that no direct rays from the light source
are visible elsewhere than on the lot where said illumination occurs.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Existing signs that are constructed and in place prior
to the adoption of this chapter and which do not conform to the provisions of
this chapter, as amended, are declared NONCONFORMING SIGNS. An illegal sign is
not a NONCONFORMING SIGN.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign advertising a product, service, business or
activity, located or conducted elsewhere than on the premises where the sign is
located.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates information
about a business, service or commodity, that exists or is conducted, sold,
offered, maintained or provided at a location on the premises where the sign is
located.
   PERMANENT SIGN.  A sign is permanently affixed to the ground if its
supporting elements are set in a concrete base in the ground or the sign is
otherwise securely fastened to the ground or another permanent structure and is
intended to remain in one location for an indefinite period.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any freestanding sign that is not permanently affixed to the
ground. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, portable signs shall
include any sign mounted on a trailer or on wheels as well as V-shaped or
sandwich signs that can with little difficulty be moved from place to place.
   SETBACK. The shortest horizontal distance from the property line or right-
of-way to the nearest point (leading edge) of the sign or its supporting
member.
   SHOPPING CENTER.  A development having more than one establishment located
on the same parcel or on abutting parcels and planned as an integrated
development.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. The land adjoining a road intersection that is kept
clear of obstructions between three and seven feet above ground as measured
along the road flow lines above ground to ensure visibility and the safety of
motorists and pedestrians. The protected sight distance area is the triangle
with sides that are the intersecting flow lines of two roads at an
intersection. Where local roads meet, the legs shall extend at least 35 feet
each way from the intersection of the edge of the traveled way.
   SIGN.  Any name, figure, character, outline, display, announcement, or
device, or structure supporting the same, or any other device of similar nature
designed to attract attention outdoors, and shall include all parts, portions,
units, and materials composing the same, together with the frame, background,
and supports or anchoring thereof. A sign shall not include any architectural
or landscape features that may also attract attention.
   SIGN AREA or SIGN FACE. The area of a sign shall be considered to be that of
the smallest rectilinear figure which encompasses all lettering, wording,
design or symbols, together with any background difference on which the sign is
located, if such background is designed as an integral part of and related to
the sign. All cut-outs or extensions shall be included in the area of a sign.
Supports and bracing which are not intended as part of the sign shall be
excluded.
   SIGN HEIGHT. Sign height shall be measured from the ground directly below
the center of the sign or from the road grade of the closest point in the road
the sign is located along, whichever is higher, to the sign or sign structure’s
highest point.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is displayed only for a specific period of time.
If a sign display area is permanent but the copy displayed is subject to
change, that sign shall not be regarded as temporary.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 164.20 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   Signs constructed, placed or maintained, except as otherwise prohibited,
exempted or not permitted by this subchapter, require a sign permit. Signs
permitted by this subchapter shall be constructed in accordance with the North
Carolina State Building Codes, as amended.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.21 SIGNS EXEMPTED.
   The following signs are exempt from this subchapter:
   (A)   Government signs including, but not limited to, traffic warning or
regulatory signs including building identification, directional, information
and welcome signs.
   (B)   Trade names and graphics which are located on newspaper, soft drink,
gasoline pumps and similar vending devices.
   (C)   Flags or insignia of any governmental or non-profit organization when
not displayed as an advertising device.
   (D)   Warning signs posted by utility or construction companies.
   (E)   Commemorative tablets, markers or monuments constructed by or with the
permission of the Ashe County Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Signs on operational motor vehicles indicating the name of a business,
when the vehicle is not intended to be used solely for a display of signs.
   (G)   Signs required by law, statute or ordinance.
   (H)   Directional signs to commercial business or direction for sale of real
estate or personal property, such as temporary realtors’ signs, agricultural
signs and yard sale signs.
      (1)   Directional signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area per sign
face and shall not exceed eight feet in height or length per sign face and
shall have a maximum height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Not more than three off-premises directional signs shall contain
directions to the same activity or business location on the same road.
      (3)   Garage sale and/or yard sale signs may be posted for a maximum of
seven days.
      (4)   Temporary signs, decorations or displays which are associated with
any national, local or religious holiday or celebration for a maximum time
period of 30 calendar days before and ten calendar days after.
      (5)   Temporary signs providing directions or other information in
conjunction with a community festival or event which is allowed.
      (6)   Temporary signs advertising seasonal produce.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.22 SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Signs obstructing the view of motorists entering or exiting roads or
highways, or interfering with the driver’s view of approaching, merging or
intersecting traffic.
   (B)   Signs creating unsafe distractions to motorists by incorporating
flashing or blinking lights or signs with moving parts or parts which simulate
movement, not including signs having only time and temperature messages. Signs
with beams or rays of light which are directed on any residential dwelling or
at any portion of a roadway and are of such intensity as to impair a driver’s
vision thereby interfering with the operation of a motor vehicle. No
illuminated sign shall interfere with or obscure an official traffic sign,
device or signal.
   (C)   Any non-governmental sign resembling a public safety warning or
traffic sign.
   (D)   Signs, whether temporary, permanent or directional, within any road or
highway right-of-way, with the exception of governmental signs.
   (E)   Signs constructed or maintained upon trees and utility poles or
painted or drawn upon natural rock formations or other natural features.
   (F)   Off-premises signs (including directional signs, but not temporary
signs) designed to be visible from a road, or a portion thereof, designated as
a Scenic Corridor by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners. (U.S. Highway 221
from Deep Gap to NC 163).
   (G)   Signs containing words or graphics that are obscene, as defined in
G.S. Chapter 15.
   (H)   No signs are permitted visible from either the North or South Forks of
the New River.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Amended 8-15-11; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.23 OFF-PREMISES SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed 32 square feet per sign face,
shall not exceed eight feet in horizontal length per sign face and shall have a
total height no greater than 12 feet.
   (B)   Off-premises signs shall be no closer than the edge of the right-of-
way or no closer than 20 feet from the edge of the traveled way, whichever is
greater. All signs and sign structures shall be located at least 25 feet from
abutting property lines and outside of all sight distance triangles.
   (C)   (1)   Off-premises signs shall be at least 1,000 linear feet as
measured along any roadway center line from any other off-premises sign; at
least 75 linear feet from any intersection of the center line of all roads, at-
grade railroad crossings or bridges; and at least 100 linear feet from the
nearest point of any church or building used for worship or any residential
dwelling unit located within 660 linear feet of the right-of-way.
      (2)   A property owner may have an off-premises sign placed on his or her
property closer than 100 feet from his or her personal residence provided that
he or she submit a written and notarized statement identifying him or her as
the property owner and that the proposed sign will meet all other requirements
of this subchapter.
   (D)   Off-premises signs shall not be attached to or painted onto any
building or structure.
   (E)   Off-premises signs shall have only one sign face per side for no more
than a total of two sign faces per sign structure.
   (F)   No off-premises sign shall be located on the same parcel as an on-
premise sign or within 50 feet of an on-premises sign.
   (G)   Off-premises temporary portable signs are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.24 ON-PREMISES SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   On-premises freestanding signs shall not exceed 150 square feet per
sign face and shall have a total height no greater than 25 feet.
   (B)   On-premises attached signs shall not exceed a cumulative area of 150
square feet per sign face and shall have a total height no greater than 25
feet.
   (C)   On-premises freestanding signs shall have only one sign face per side
for no more than a total of two sign faces per sign structure.
   (D)   On-premises signs shall be no closer than the edge of the right-of-way
or no closer than 20 feet from the edge of the traveled way, whichever is
greater. All signs and sign structures shall be located at least 50 feet from
abutting property lines and outside of all sight distance triangles.
   (E)   Single parcels with one establishment may have one freestanding sign
and one sign attached to the building per public road frontage.
   (F)   Multiple establishments on a single parcel or shopping centers may
construct one freestanding group or identification sign per public road
frontage. In addition, each establishment may construct one attached sign to
the building per public road frontage of each establishment.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.25 TEMPORARY PORTABLE SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   On-premises temporary portable signs shall be allowed for a maximum of
14 consecutive calendar days and may be displayed once at six-month-period
intervals.
   (B)   Temporary portable signs shall be located no closer than the edge of
the right-of-way or no closer than 20 feet from the edge of the traveled way
and outside of all sight distance triangles.
   (C)   Temporary portable signs shall not exceed an area of 32 square feet or
a height of five feet.
   (D)   Temporary portable signs shall not be illuminated or employ flashing
lights or have intermittent or moving parts.
   (E)   Temporary portable off-premises signs are prohibited.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
SIGN MAINTENANCE; ABANDONED SIGNS; TREE CUTTING
§ 164.40 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All signs and their structures shall be maintained by the sign owner
and/or the owner of record of the real property upon which the sign is located
in good repair, and safe condition and shall conform to the standards in this
section. Maintenance carried out in accordance with this section shall not
require a sign permit, provided the sign is not enlarged, moved or altered in
any manner which would create or increase a nonconforming condition. Any sign
violating these requirements shall be repaired or removed as required.
   (B)   No sign shall be allowed to have more than 20% of its total surface
area covered with disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint or poster paper,
or any combination of these conditions for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (C)   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing,
broken supports, loose appendages or struts which cause the sign to stand more
than 15 degrees from the perpendicular for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (D)   No sign or sign structure shall be allowed to have weeds, vines or
other vegetation obscuring more than 20% of the sign from the road or highway
from which it is intended to be viewed for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (E)   No illuminated sign shall be allowed to stand with only partial
illumination for more than 30 consecutive days.
   (F)   No sign or sign structure shall be allowed to stand if a business no
longer exists and the issued permit is not transferred within one year.
   (G)   No sign shall be allowed to emit beams or rays of light which are
directed on any residential dwelling or at any portion of a roadway and are of
such intensity as to impair a driver’s vision, thereby interfering with the
operation of a motor vehicle.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.41 UNLAWFUL CUTTING OF TREES OR SHRUBS.
   No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the visibility of
any sign, damage, trim or remove any trees, shrubs or other vegetation located
within any public road or highway right-of-way, except where a legal permit has
been obtained from the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.42 MODIFICATION OF SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   A sign’s structure may be modified by removing wooden poles and replacing
them with a single metal support pole. If a nonconforming sign’s support
structure is modified, the entire sign structure and sign face shall be made to
conform to all requirements of this chapter except for the established minimum
spacing distance. Before such modification can take place, the sign owner must
obtain a permit for the proposed modification.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
PERMITS, FEES AND NONCONFORMING SIGNS
§ 164.55 PERMITS.
   All signs, except as otherwise provided in §
164.21 shall require a sign permit prior to being constructed, placed or
repaired. Sign permits shall be issued by the Planning Director. If a sign
permit is denied, the decision may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment
within 30 days of the decision.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.56 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   All sign permit applications shall be reviewed for compliance with these
regulations. No permit shall be issued until an application for each separate
sign or sign structure is completed, submitted and approved by the Planning
Director. The initial permit shall be valid until revoked by the Planning
Director.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.57 PERMIT FEES.
   A fee schedule shall be determined by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners
and posted in the Ashe County Building Inspections Office.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.58 PERMIT REVOCATIONS.
   Sign permits for new and permitted signs may be revoked for any one of the
following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresenting material facts by the applicant on the permit
application form.
   (B)   Altering, enlarging or relocating a permitted sign structure, except
in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Allowing a sign to remain blank for a period of 12 consecutive months
or reaching a state of dilapidation or disrepair as determined by the Planning
Staff.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.59 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Legal nonconforming signs may continue to exist provided that:
   (A)   The sign is not changed or replaced with another nonconforming sign,
except that copy may be changed on an existing sign.
   (B)   The sign is not expanded or modified in any way which increases the
sign’s nonconformity.
   (C)   Relocated, except in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (D)   Reestablished after it has been removed or has been abandoned for 180
days or more.
   (E)   Reestablished after damage or destruction if such damage to the sign
exceeds 50% of the sign’s current assessed tax value. The extent of damage
shall be determined by the Planning Director.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.60 NOTICE GIVEN FOR REFUSING TO ISSUE PERMIT. 
   The Planning Director shall refuse to issue a permit for a proposed sign
structure that will not conform to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.61 RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED SIGNS OR SIGN STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any conforming sign or sign structure which has been damaged may be
repaired or replaced and used as before, by the sign owners and/or the owners
of record of the real property where the sign is located, provided all repairs
are initiated within 30 working days and completed within 60 working days of
such damage. However, if the sign should be declared unsafe by thePlanning
Director, the owner of the sign or the owner of record of the real property
whereon the sign is located, shall immediately correct all unsafe conditions to
the Planning Director’s satisfaction.
   (B)   As a courtesy to the sign owner, if the Enforcement Officer discovers
that a sign is damaged or is in an unsafe condition, the Enforcement Officer
will promptly notify either the sign owner or the owner of record of the real
property whereon the sign is located. The affirmative duty and liability shall,
however, remain with the owner of each sign to keep each sign in a safe and
undamaged condition in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS
§ 164.75 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Manager has appointed the Planning Director to administer this
chapter. The Planning Director or his or her appointee shall be known as the
Code Enforcement Officer. The Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce all
provisions of this chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer shall also have the
following authority:
   (A)   Notice of violation. A notice of violation shall be delivered to the
holder of the development approval and to the landowner of the property
involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided
by similar means to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the
work or activity. The time period provided herein shall commence upon receipt
of such notice of violation. The notice of violation shall identify the sign
and shall describe the nature of the violation, refer to the section of the
chapter violated, specify in detail what action must be taken to correct the
violation and specify all potential enforcement penalties that may apply.
   (B)   Should any sign or sign structure become imminently unstable or in
danger of falling or otherwise unsafe, a notice of violation shall be delivered
to the sign owner or to the owner of record of the real property whereon the
sign is located in the same manner as set out for a notice of violation except
that the recipient of the notice shall immediately, in the case of imminent
danger, secure or remove the sign in a manner to be approved by the Planning
Director in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. If the condition
prompting the notice is not corrected within 24 hours after receipt of the
notice, the sign owner shall be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.76 APPEALS.
   Notice of violations issued by the Planning Director may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment within 30 working days of receipt of notice. If notice of
violation is sent by mail, it must be presumed it is received on the third
business day thereafter. An appeal of a notice of violation or other
enforcement order stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of
any fines assessed during the pendency of the appeal to the Board of
Adjustment. If the Board of Adjustment finds that the action of the Planning
Director has been taken for good cause and in accordance with this chapter, it
shall so declare and the time period for compliance shall run from the issuance
of that Board's finding. If the Board of Adjustment sustains the appeal of the
petitioner, no further action for this instance will be taken by the Planning
Director.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 164.90 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Whenever the regulations of this chapter conflict with the requirements of
another statute, the more restrictive standard shall govern.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.91 VARIANCES.
   Where strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Board of Adjustment may authorize a variance, if such
variance can be made without destroying the intent of this chapter. Any
variance thus authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of
the meeting of the Board of Adjustment and the reasoning on which the departure
was justified set forth.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.92 NONCOMMERCIAL MESSAGES.
   Any sign, display, or device allowed under this chapter may contain, in lieu
of any other copy, any otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not
direct attention to a business operated for profit, or to a commodity or
service for sale, and that complies with size, lighting and spacing, or other
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.93 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section of provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.94 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Administrative Staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.95 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 4/17/2023.
(Ord. passed 4-17-23)
§ 164.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. passed 3-5-12; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-23)
CHAPTER 165: ELECTRONIC GAMING
Section
   
165.01   Title
   
165.02   Authority and purpose
   
165.03   Territorial coverage
   
165.04   Definitions
   
165.05   Permit required
   
165.06   Permitted process
   
165.07   Permit issued
   
165.08   Operation requirements
   
165.09   Non-conforming use
   
165.10   Variances
 
   
165.99   Penalty
§ 165.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ashe County Electronic
Gaming Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.02 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted to counties by G.S. §§ 153A-121 et seq.
and other pertinent statutes and amendments thereto, it is the purpose of this
chapter to regulate the use of electronic gaming operations and to describe the
conditions by which a permit for installing such a system may be obtained.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.03 TERRITORIAL COVERAGE.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated Ashe County which
are not included in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of any municipalities.
All municipalities and their respective corporate limits shall be exempted from
the ordinance, unless they choose to adopt this chapter or some form thereof.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A commercial trade or enterprise in regular operation, including
but not limited to retail, wholesale, manufacturing, industrial, agricultural,
financial, professional, and other similar trades or operations.
   COUNTY. The County of Ashe.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any business enterprise, whether as a
principal or an accessory use where persons utilize electronic machines
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games
of chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or other items of
value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
This term includes, but is not limited to internet cafes, internet sweepstakes,
beach sweepstakes or cybercafes. This does not include any lottery approved by
the State of North Carolina.
   OPERATOR. The person who owns or is responsible for operation of an
electronic gaming operation.
   PERSON. Any individual, natural person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, legal representative or other recognized legal entity.
   SHALL. Any place the word "shall" appears in this chapter it is mandatory.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, place, operate, maintain, expand, or enlarge
electronic gaming operations without a permit as required hereunder. The
application for issuance of and all other matters pertaining to such site
permit shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12) Penalty, see §
165.99
§ 165.06 PERMITTED PROCESS.
   (A)   Permit application. A person seeking a permit for an electronic gaming
operation shall file an application with the Planning Board for review as
follows. The name of the owner of the property, the owner of the machines used
in the proposed electronic gaming operation, the type and number of machines to
be used in the proposed electronic gaming operation and the addresses for both
the owner of the property, the owner of the machines.
   (B)   Site information. The applicant shall include the following
information and must be accompanied by a signed and sealed survey from a
professional land surveyor showing that the proposed location complies with the
setbacks of § 165.08 about the site proposed for the electronic gaming
operation and any associated facilities:
      (1)   The surveyed boundaries of the site proposed for the electronic
gaming operation;
      (2)   The location of other electronic gaming operations within 1,000
feet by a horizontal, straight line distance from the close point on the
closest boundary line of the property occupied by the electronic gaming
operations; and
      (3)   The location of any church, school, day care, public park, or
playground within 1,000 feet as measured by a horizontal, straight line
distance from the close point on the closest boundary line of the property
occupied by the electronic gaming operations.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.07 PERMIT ISSUED.
   If the Planning Board determines that the application meets ail of the
requirements of this chapter, that all of the information in § 165.06 above are
truthfully and correctly made and can reasonably be complied with and that the
application does not violate the provisions of this chapter including § 165.08,
the Planning Board shall issue a permit to the applicant. The permit shall note
thereon the effective date of issuance.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.08 OPERATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electronic gaming operations shall be operated only on the ground
floor of a building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the
building facing any street, so that a clear view inside may be had from the
street.
   (B)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where games are played and the rear
wall of the room, so that a clear view of the interior may be had from the
street.
   (C)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (D)   The maximum number of machines/ terminals/computers for any electronic
gaming operations business is twenty.
   (E)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed on the premises of
the electronic gaming operations.
   (F)   No electronic gaming operation shall be located within 1,000 feet
(determined by a straight line and not a street distance) of any point on the
closest property line of any church, school, day care, public park, or
playground as measured by a horizontal, straight line distance from the closest
point on the closest boundary line of the property occupied by the electronic
gaming operation.
   (G)   No electronic gaming operation shall be located within 1,000 feet
(determined by a straight line and not a street distance) of any other
electronic gaming operation as measured by a horizontal, straight line distance
from the closest building occupied by each.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12) Penalty, see §
165.99
§ 165.09 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Any electronic gaming operation lawfully operating on July 16, 2012,
that is in violation of this chapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use. Any
use which is determined to be non conforming by application of the provisions
of this section shall be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed three
years. Such non-conforming use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended, or
altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
   (B)   If a non-conforming use is discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more, it may not be reopened as an electronic gaming operation.
   (C)   If two or more electronic gaming operations are within 1,000 feet of
one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the electronic gaming
operation which was first operated and continuously operated at its present
location shall be considered the conforming use and the one created later shall
be considered non-conforming.
   (D)   An electronic gaming operations lawfully operating as a conforming use
shall not be rendered non-conforming by the subsequent location of a structure
or facility designated in §
165.08.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12) Penalty, see §
165.99
§ 165.10 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of conditions peculiar to the site, strict adherence to the
provisions to this chapter would cause an unnecessary hardship, a written
petition for a variance shall be considered by the Planning Board, which may
authorize a variance if it can be made in fairness to other applicants and
without destroying the intent and purposes of this chapter. Before granting a
variance from the separation requirements set forth in this chapter the Ashe
County Planning Board shall find that thoroughfares, traffic circulation
patterns, structures or other natural or man-made geographic or topographic
features are likely to provide an adequate measure of protection for the
community or from any secondary effects of the electronic gaming operation. Any
authorized variance shall be entered in writing in the official minutes of the
Planning Board with the reasons described for which the exception was made.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
§ 165.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to punishment as provided by
G.S. § 14-4. Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate
offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day's continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to $500
per day. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for
violation of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General
Court of Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 153A-123, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-12)
CHAPTER 166: HIGH IMPACT LAND USE
Section
   
166.01   Title
   
166.02   Purpose
   
166.03   Authority
   
166.04   Jurisdiction
   
166.05   Definitions
   
166.06   Prohibitions
   
166.07   Classifications
   
166.08   Location distance restrictions
   
166.09   Setbacks, buffers and dust controls
   
166.10   High impact land use permits
   
166.11   Appeals and variances
   
166.12   Non-conforming use
   
166.13   Conflict with other laws
   
166.14   Separability
   
166.15   Conflicts of interest
   
166.16   Effective date
 
   
166.99   Penalties for violations
§ 166.01 TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Ashe County High Impact
Land Use Chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.02 PURPOSE.
    For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizens and the peace and dignity of the county, the County Commissioners
hereby establish certain criteria relating to high impact land uses to
accommodate those activities as identified and defined in this chapter. High
impact land uses, by their very nature, create potential danger from
explosions, produce objectionable levels of noise, odors, vibrations, fumes,
light, unwanted glare, or smoke and have impacts upon the areas adjacent to
them. These ordinance provisions are intended to allow for the placement and
growth of high impact land uses while attempting to support the health, safety
and general welfare standards of established residential and commercial areas
in Ashe County.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.03 AUTHORITY.
    This Chapter is adopted under the authority granted to Ashe County in G.S.
§160D-401(a).
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.04 JURISDICTION.
    In accordance with G.S. §160D-202(b), this Chapter shall apply to all
unincorporated areas of Ashe County in which no town or city is exercising
extraterritorial jurisdiction under G.S. Ch. 160D, Art. 2.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases defined in this section shall have the following meanings
when used in this chapter:
   ADMINISTRATOR . The Planning Director of Ashe County, or other individual
designated by the County Manager to be the person interpreting the chapter and
acting as a conduit between the developer of a high impact land use and the
Ashe County Planning Board, which recommends to the Ashe County Commissioners
whether or not to issue a High Impact Land Use Operational Permit.
   AREA OF OPERATION. The portion of a tract of land on which a high impact
land use is situated that is actually in use or is planned for use to conduct
the activities for which this chapter requires a permit, and shall include any
area occupied by buildings, structures, equipment, storage and stationary
equipment used or planned for use in the conduct of these activities.
   ASPHALT PLANT. A commercial facility for the manufacture and production of a
thick, dark tar-like variety of bitumen, which, when mixed with proper amounts
of sand or gravel or both, results in material suitable for paving or roofing.
   ASSISTED LIVING CENTER. A group housing and services program for two or more
unrelated adults that makes available for its residents no less than one meal a
day, provides housekeeping services, and provides personal care services
directly or through a formal written agreement with one or more North Carolina
licensed home care or hospice agencies.
   CHEMICAL MANUFACTURER. A commercial facility involved in the production,
synthesis, formation, processing, or refining of chemical products.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE CENTER. A commercial facility used primarily for the
storage of chemical compounds.
   CHIP MILL. A commercial facility that grinds logs into wood chips for
production of paper, particle board and other similar products.
   CONCRETE MIXING PLANT. A commercial facility utilizing equipment that
combines materials including, but not limited to, sand, water, aggregate, ash,
and cement to form concrete and shall include both “ready mix” and “central
mix” facilities.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A facility, whether or not operated for profit and without
regard to its hours of operation, where six or more individuals are afforded
opportunity for temporary provision of activities designed to assist persons
with disabilities or elderly persons without daytime home care.
   DWELLING UNIT. A permanent structure constructed for the purpose of housing
natural persons that has not been classified by government authority as
uninhabitable.
   EDUCATIONAL CENTER. An elementary school, secondary school, charter school,
private school, community college, college, university, or similar institution
providing for the education of individuals. Its area shall include all spaces
utilized for educational instruction and spaces actually needed for related
activities regularly conducted for the benefit of its students.
   EXPLOSIVES MANUFACTURER. A commercial facility used for manufacturing of a
chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common purpose of which
is to function by explosion, and shall include, but is not limited to:
dynamite, black powder, pellet powder, initiating explosives, detonators,
safety fuses, squibs, detonating cord, igniting cord, igniters, and display
fireworks. Facilities not included in this category are those producing only
small arms ammunition.
   EXPLOSIVES STORAGE WAREHOUSE. A commercial facility used for the storage of
products created by an explosives manufacturer.
   FUEL STORAGE CENTER. A commercial facility used for the storage,
distribution, mixing, or transfer of flammable or combustible liquids, gases,
or solids, including propane, methane, ethanol, gasoline, kerosene, oil, coal,
and other fuels, received or transferred by truck, train, tank vessel,
pipelines, tank car, piping, portable tank, portable containers, or by similar
method, and stored in quantities greater than a one-day supply for a customer
of this facility. Facilities not included in this category are gasoline
dispensing facilities used solely for distribution to individual consumers, and
any fuel storage center at an agricultural farm, residence, business, or other
facility where use of the product is limited to on-site consumption.
   HIGH IMPACT LAND USE. An activity which creates potential danger from
explosions or produces levels of noise, odors, vibrations, fumes, light, smoke,
air pollution or water pollution that have an adverse effect on the health,
safety or general welfare of the citizens of Ashe County, which includes, but
is not limited to asphalt plants, quarries, stone crushing operations,
incinerators, sawmills, chip mills, tub grinding operations, explosives
manufacturers, explosives storage warehouses, fuel storage centers, concrete
mixing plants, chemical manufacturers, chemical storage centers, and medical
waste disposal centers.
   HISTORIC SITE. An area of land determined by the Secretary of the Interior
to qualify as a registered historic district, or:
      (1)   A structure listed individually in the National Register of
Historic Places - as maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior;
      (2)   A structure preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
Register; or
      (3)   A structure certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary
of the Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district.
   INCINERATOR. A facility designated as a “hazardous waste incinerator” and
having its operation regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   MEDICAL CENTER. A facility which has an organized medical staff and which is
designed, used, and operated to provide health care, diagnostic and therapeutic
services.
   MEDICAL WASTE DISPOSAL CENTER. A facility that stores or treats medical
waste at a location separate from the facility where it was generated.
   NURSING HOME. A facility maintained for the provision of nursing or
convalescent care for three or more persons unrelated to the operator, and
which operates under a license from the State of North Carolina.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, business entity or a named
group organized to advocate a public position related to an existing or
proposed high impact land use.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A church or similar area used on a regular basis for the
primary purpose of serving as a place of public worship. Its area shall include
all spaces utilized for worship services and spaces actually needed for related
activities regularly conducted for the benefit of its congregation members.
   PROTECTED SITE.  A location in Ashe County used by its citizens for
activities that are expected to be conducted without interruption by loud
noise, noxious odors, smoke or fumes, disturbing vibrations, unwanted glare or
pollution of air or water. Designated sites deserve to be protected by
regulated distances and by buffers from any high impact land use, based on the
classification of that use. The following are protected sites: educational
centers, day care centers, assisted living centers, nursing homes, medical
centers, places of worship, dwelling units, public outdoor recreational
facilities, historic sites, the New River (including its North Fork and South
Fork) and the Blue Ridge Parkway.
   PUBLIC OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. A tract of land owned by a government
agency or a non-profit community group intended for public use as active or
passive recreation. Its area shall include all spaces regularly utilized for
its intended purposes.
   PULP MILL. A commercial facility engaged in activities classified by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as belonging to a “pulp and paper mill”
with its operation regulated by that agency.
   QUARRY. A commercial facility for the dredging, digging, extraction, or
mining of minerals, ores, soils, and other solid matter. Facilities not
included in this category are tracts of land less than one acre in size when
used either:
      (1)   For excavation or grading when conducted solely in aid of on-site
farming or on-site construction of commercial or residential buildings; or
      (2)   Removal of ores or mineral solids when done solely for the purpose
and to the extent necessary to determine the location, quantity, or quality of
any natural deposit.
   SAWMILL. A commercial facility where logs are customarily processed into
lumber, finished wood products or mulch. Facilities not included in this
category are those employing less than three full-time employees, and in
operation for a duration of less than six months at the same area of operation.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS. Shall mean solar arrays or solar panels including
mounting structures and inverters. This definition does not apply to solar
farms which are less than 10 acres.
   STONE CRUSHING OPERATION. A commercial facility engaged in the use of
mechanized equipment or machinery to reduce the size of stone material or
material having the qualities of stone.
   TUB GRINDING OPERATION. A commercial facility engaged in the use of
mechanized equipment to produce organic mulch from natural inert or organic
material such as tree stumps, tree branches, brush and other type of natural
forestry waste material. Facilities not included in this category are those
employing less than three full-time employees, and in operation for duration of
less than six months at the same area of operation.
   VEGETATIVE BARRIER. Plant material on a strip of land having a designated
width along a specified land feature with the purpose of separating that land
feature from view or pollution.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   A facility defined by this chapter as a HIGH IMPACT LAND USE shall not begin
construction of or operate that facility without a high impact land use
operational permit issued by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners, and no
area of operation, building or structure subject to or regulated by this
chapter shall be erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without
approval of a high impact land use operational permit from the Ashe County
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.07 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)    These high impact land uses shall be designated as Class 1: Asphalt
Plant, Incinerator, Quarry, Stone Crushing Operation, Concrete Mixing Plant,
Pulp Mill, Chip Mill, Sawmill, Solar Energy Systems and Tub Grinding Operation.
   (B)   These high impact land uses, when their area of operation is confined
to permanent stand-alone structures, shall be designated as Class 2: Chemical
Manufacturer, Chemical Storage Center, Explosives Manufacturer, Explosives
Storage Warehouse, Fuel Storage Center, and Medical Waste Disposal Center.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.08 LOCATION DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)    A high impact land use shall not be located nearer to a protected
site than 2,000 feet, measured from the area of operation to the protected
site.
   (B)   The area of operation shall also be setback 1,000 feet from the
property line of the high impact land use.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.09 SETBACKS, BUFFERS AND DUST CONTROLS.
    For Class 1 facilities, a high impact land operational permit shall be
issued only when the applicant has included in its plan of operation and fully
described in its application for a permit the following mandatory provisions:
   (A)   A vegetative barrier, approved by the Ashe County Board of
Commissioners, sufficient in width and all-year existence, to serve as a buffer
to lessen the visual impact of the area of operation both at road grade level
and from all sides, and provide noise, glare and particulate matter reduction.
   (B)   Inclusion of a dust-alleviation surface material for roads within, and
leading to, the area of operation.
   (C)   Permanent paving material applied along any exit onto a public roadway
for a distance of 100 feet.
   (D)   A security fence which surrounds the entire area of operation. The
material shall be chain link, nine gauge or better, and seven feet in height
with one or more strands of barbed or razor wire above the top. A gate that is
closed and locked when the facility is not in operation or maintenance being
performed shall be part of the security fence.
   (E)   Solar energy systems, are subject to the following setbacks and
requirements:
      (1)   At least 100 feet from centerline of roads;
      (2)   At least 50 feet from adjacent properties;
      (3)   At least 100 feet from adjacent residential property lines;
      (4)   At least 100 feet from properties containing existing structures,
that include homes, barns, sheds, or outbuildings.
   (F)   Glare. Solar energy systems must be designed, constructed and sited to
minimize glare or reflections on adjacent properties and roadways and to not
interfere with traffic, including air traffic, or otherwise create a safety
hazard.
   (G)   Abandonment and deconstruction. Solar farms that do not produce energy
for a continuous period of one year or more are presumed to have been abandoned
unless the failure to produce energy results from a cause outside of the
control of the owner/operator of the commercial solar farm.
      (1)   Any solar farm that has been abandoned must be deconstructed and
removed within 18 months unless the period is extended by the Ashe County Board
of Commissioners.
      (2)   A deconstruction plan outlining the anticipated means and costs of
removing the solar farm must be submitted, with the high impact land use
operational permit application.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.10 HIGH IMPACT LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)    A high impact land use operational permit is required from the Ashe
County Board of Commissioners for the establishment and operation of a facility
designated by this chapter as a “high impact land use.”
   (B)   A fee to cover the administrative costs of an application of $500
shall be paid to the Ashe County Board of Commissioners at the time of the
application of the Board’s recommendation of a high impact land use operational
permit is requested.
   (C)   The application shall include such information as may reasonably be
required by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners to issue a high impact land
use operational permit. The application shall contain at a minimum the
following items: a description of all existing or proposed buildings or
alterations; existing and proposed uses of the buildings; the exact location
within a tract upon which the area of operation will be placed; conditions
existing on that tract; list of names and addresses of adjacent property
owners. The above list of items are not all inclusive and anything requested
additionally by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners for the assistance with
issuing a Permit is allowed.
   (D)   In the discretion of the Ashe County Board of Commissioners, there
will be consultation with other county, state, and federal agencies when a
report from such agency would be relevant in determining whether the applicant
is able to comply with applicable laws. These contacts may include the Regional
Superintendent of the Blue Ridge Parkway upon receipt of an application for a
high impact land use which is to be located within a view area of the Blue
Ridge Parkway (as determined by the National Park Service). Upon receipt of a
written unfavorable recommendation from the Ashe County Planning Board, a state
or a federal agency, that recommendation will be presented to the applicant for
comment or acceptance. Upon receipt of a written recommendation from the Ashe
County Planning Board, a state or a federal agency that the permit be denied,
it shall be presumed that approval of the application would be a violation of
the duty to protect the welfare of the citizens of Ashe County.
   (E)   Upon receipt of an application, the Administrator shall send written
notice to adjacent property owners to advise them of the application and
provide to them a summary of the ordinance provisions.
   (F)   A solar energy system must provide the following additional items with
its application.
      (1)   Department of Natural Resources reply.
      (2)   FAA Notice of No Flight Hazard and/or application to the FAA for
Notice of Criteria Tool.
      (3)   Preliminary site plan identifying the following:
         (a)   Subject property including the property lines, setback lines,
and right-of-way lines.
         (b)   Physical features including but not limited to roads, floodplain
(s) (if applicable), wetland(s) (if applicable), existing and proposed building
(s), solar panels and equipment (number, location, and spacing of solar panels/
arrays), proposed locations of underground or overhead electric lines and
utility poles, landscaping, and fencing.
      (4)   Identification of proposed construction and ongoing maintenance
routes from the nearest arterial road as detailed on a map.
      (5)   Letter of intent with the applicable road authority that
acknowledges the proposed project and a preliminary agreement with the road
maintenance authority. Or certified letter with return receipt requested
evidencing a good faith effort to contact the applicable road authority.
      (6)   Proposed product cut-sheets.
      (7)   Glare study report.
      (8)   Proof of liability insurance.
      (9)   Preliminary emergency services plan, including but not limited to
the project summary, electrical schematic and means of shutting down energy
systems throughout the life of the installation.
   (G)   The Ashe County Planning Board shall review the permit application and
other relevant information, and shall instruct the Administrator to notify the
applicant in writing as to action taken with respect to the permit. The notice
shall be one of the following:
      (1)   (a)   The Ashe County Planning Board has recommended that the
permit application, or the proposed high impact land use, or both, failed to
meet one or more of the requirements of this chapter, or that one or more of
the certifications required in the permit application cannot truthfully and
correctly be made. Therefore the Ashe County Planning Board recommends the
application for a High Impact Land Use Operational Permit be denied by the Ashe
County Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   The notice shall be issued no later than 90 days after receipt
of a permit application, shall describe all reasons for the denial, and shall
refer to specific sections of this chapter with which the application or
proposed high impact land use does not comply. The applicant shall have 90 days
from receipt of that written notification to comply with the unmet requirements
described in the notice. The permit application shall expire at the end of that
time unless the applicant has complied with all unmet requirements described in
the notice.
      (2)   The Ashe County Board of Commissioners has determined that the
application and proposed high impact land use meet all requirements of this
chapter, but necessary federal and state permits have not been issued.
      (3)   The Ashe County Board of Commissioners determined that that all
requirements of this chapter have been met and the Ashe County Planning Board
recommended approval and all necessary state and federal permits have been
issued to the applicant. Therefore, a high impact land use operational permit
will be issued.
   (H)   An high impact land use operational permit shall expire and shall be
invalid in the event construction of the area of operation has not begun within
12 months of the date on which the permit was issued, unless this time period
is extended by the Ashe County Board of Commissioners for good cause shown.
This permit shall remain valid so long as there is continued compliance with
certifications contained in the application and with requirements of this
chapter. No permit may be assigned or transferred by the holder to any other
person without approval from the Ashe County Board of Commissioners.
   (I)   The Ashe County Board of Commissioners may revoke an operational
permit for the following reasons, after due notice and an opportunity for the
permit holder to be heard:
      (1)   The holder has violated one or more terms or conditions of the
permit or a requirement of the chapter.
      (2)   The application on which issuance of the permit was based contains
a material misrepresentation, either of commission or omission.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.11 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)    An appeal from a decision of the Ashe County Board of Commissioners
may be made to the Ashe County Commissioners who are acting as the Board of
Adjustment.
      (1)   Any person who is directly affected may appeal a decision to the
Ashe County Commissioners by filing a notice of appeal with the Clerk to the
Ashe County Commissioners within 30 days of the decision. The notice of appeal
shall state the grounds for appeal.
      (2)   The Clerk to the Ashe County Board of Commissioners shall notify
all persons identified as participants in the application process and with
standing of the appeal (must deliver to permittee and landowner if different).
Effective notice is required, and may be delivered by hand, email, or first-
class mail; may be posted onsite.
      (3)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from, unless the Administrator certifies to
the Ashe County Commissioners that because of facts stated in affidavit format,
a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property, or because the violation
is transitory in nature and a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement
of the ordinance. Upon filing of that certificate with the Clerk to the Board
of Commissioners, enforcement proceedings may continue unless halted by a
restraining order granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners a
request for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Commissioners
shall meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed.
      (4)   By the vote of a four/fifths of the Board membership, the act of
the Board of Commissioners may be upheld, modified, or overruled in part or in
its entirety.
   (B)   When unnecessary hardship would result from carrying out the strict
letter of this chapter, the Board of Commissioners, by a four/fifths vote of
its membership, may authorize, as a variance, a modified application to any of
the provisions of this chapter upon a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
this chapter. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. A hardship resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardship resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the chapter, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
      (5)   Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any allowed variance,
provided that the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.12 NON-CONFORMING USE.
    Any existing use that is not in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter at the time of its enactment may continue to operate as a non-
conforming use, but may not expand the size of the area of operation existing
at the time of this enactment without a variance permit.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.13 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
    Wherever the provisions of this chapter or application of this chapter
impose higher standards than are required in any other local ordinance or
regulation, other than Ashe County ordinances to control specific land uses,
provisions and application of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the
provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or regulation, other than
Ashe County ordinances to control specific land uses, impose higher standards
than are required by the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of such
other statute or local ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.14 SEPARABILITY.
    Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole or any part thereof which is
not specifically declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.15 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on an
administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government. Pursuant to the authority of § 160D-109.
(Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.16 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective July 17, 2023.
(Ord. passed 7-17-23)
§ 166.99 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)    Each day of a violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Financial penalties. In addition to criminal penalties for a violation
of this chapter, the Board of County Commissioners may impose civil penalties
for each day’s continuation of the offense. The amount shall be limited to
$500. A penalty unpaid 30 days after the offender has been cited for violation
of this chapter may be recovered in a civil action in the General Court of
Justice.
   (C)   Other remedies. All appropriate remedies for relief authorized by G.S.
§ 160D-404, including orders for mandatory and prohibitory injunctions and for
abatements, may be used to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-3-16; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-23)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving the following cable TV franchises and franchise
                     transfers: Wood Cable TV to SRW Blue Ridge Cablesystems,
                     Private Cable Systems to SRW Blue Ridge Cablesystems, Ashe
—      1-2-90      County Cablevision, Jefferson Cablevision, Royal Cable TV
                     to Jackie Blackburn, Richard Yearick Cablevision, Silas
                     Creek Cablevision (Jim Goss to Lloyd Testerman), Royal
                     Cable TV, Northwest Cable to Cablevision of Watauga, New
                     River Cable TV, Bethel Cable TV, and Lansing TV to Essex.
—      5-4-92      Approving transfer of U.S. Cable T.V. Group L.P.
                     (Multivision) to Cablevision System, Incorporated.
                     Granting a franchise to operate an ambulance service
                     within the County for a period of four years, and granting
—      6-6-94      a franchise to Helton Ambulance Service to operate within
                     that specific area of Ashe County known as the Helton
                     Township.
—      5-6-96      Approving the transfer of US Cable Television Group to
                     Cablevision.
                     Granting a franchise to Ashe County Rescue Squad to
—      3-7-97      operate an ambulance service within the county for a
                     period of one year.
                     Granting a franchise to Garbage Disposal Service to
—      4-7-97      operate a solid waste collection/transport/disposal
                     business.
—      7-23-97     Approving the transfer of SRW-Blue Ridge Cablesystems to
                     FrontierVision.
—      10-22-97    Approving the transfer of Cablevision to Medicom
                     Southeast.
                     Granting Blue Ridge Medical Transport a franchise to
                     operate an ambulance service within the County for a
—      6-30-98     period of four years, and granting a franchise to Helton
                     Ambulance Service to operate within that specific area of
                     Ashe County known as the Helton Township.
—      10-5-98     Approving the transfer of FrontierVision Operating
                     Partners to Helicon Partners.
—      6-1-98      Granting a franchise to Bethel Cable TV.
                     Approving the transfer of Bethel Cable TV and Northwest
—      2-21-00     Cable TV to FSA Broadcasting Group, d/b/a Ashe County
                     Cable TV.
                     Granting Blue Ridge Medical Transport, Inc. a franchise to
                     operate an ambulance service within the County for a
                     period of six years. Granting Ashe County Rescue Squad,
                     Inc. a franchise to operate an ambulance for the purpose
                     of providing backup emergency services for Blue Ridge
                     Medical Transport, Inc. Granting Helton Ambulance Service
—      6-30-02     a franchise to operate an ambulance service within that
                     specific area of Ashe County known as Helton Township.
                     Granting Fleetwood Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department a
                     franchise to operate an ambulance for the purpose of
                     providing backup emergency services for Blue Ridge Medical
                     Transport, Inc., Helton Ambulance Service, and Ashe County
                     Rescue Squad.
—      3-3-03      Granting a franchise to County Disposal Company to operate
                     a solid waste collection service.
                     Renewing a franchise to Garbage Disposal Service to
—      7-7-03      Operate a solid waste collection/ transport/disposal
                     business.
—      9-7-04      Renewing a franchise to Charter Communications.
—      10-18-06    Granting a franchise to Rapid Communications.
—      6-18-07     Granting a franchise to Phillips Sanitation Service.
—      9-4-07      Granting a franchise to M & J Disposals.
—      10-1-07     Granting a franchise to High Country Waste Solutions, LLC.
—      4-7-08      Granting a franchise to McIntyre Disposal Service.
—      6-30-08     Granting a Franchise to Blue Ridge Medical Transport, Inc.
—      11-3-08     Transferring a franchise from Mediacom to Morris
                     Communications.
—      4-21-14     Granting a franchise to J&C Trash Pickup
—      6-30-14     Granting a franchise to Ashe Medics
—      8-21-17     Granting a franchise to Vixster, LLC to operate a solid
                     waste collection/transport/ disposal business.
—      8-21-17     Granting a franchise to Warrensville Volunteer Fire and
                     Rescue Department to operate ambulance service.
—      6-3-19      Granting a franchise to Ashe Medics.
—      10-21-19    Renewing a franchise to Republic Services.
—      1-6-20      Amending EMS Franchise Ordinance for Pond Mountain VF&RD,
                     granting a franchise to operate an ambulance service.
—      2-3-20      Renewing a franchise to M&J Disposals.
—      3-16-20     Granting a franchise to High Country Home Services.
—      3-16-20     Granting a franchise to Steadfast Property Services.
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                                                   Code Section
Ch. 7A                                                      151.29
                                                            10.99,
                                                            30.99,
                                                            32.03,
                                                            50.99,
                                                            90.99,
                                                            91.999,
14-4                                                        93.99,
                                                            94.99,
                                                            95.99,
                                                            97.99,
                                                            99.99,
                                                            110.99,
                                                            150.99,
                                                            165.99
14-190.9                                                    160.06
14-202.10                                                   160.05
14-202.10(2)                                                160.05
14-202.11(c)                                                160.03
14-234(c)(1)                                                155.70
14-258.1                                                    32.02
                                                            32.10,
14-269(b)                                                   32.11,
                                                            32.13
14-288.8                                                    30.07
Ch.15                                                       164.22
Ch. 15A, Art. 81B, Part 3 (15A-1340.10 et seq.)             50.99
20-4.01(23)                                                 50.03
                                                            152.04,
47-30                                                       155.15,
                                                            156.25,
                                                            156.55
Ch. 47F                                                     156.50
47F-103(10)                                                 156.45
47F-103.101                                                 156.45
Ch. 62, Art. 2                                              163.04
62-3                                                        92.03
Ch. 62A                                                     91.002,
                                                            91.015
67-4.1(c)                                                   90.03
67-4.5                                                      90.03
74-46 - 74-68                                               50.03
Ch. 89C                                                     156.55
99E-23(b)                                                   100.05,
                                                            100.99
104A-1                                                      156.06
104E-1 - 104E-28                                            50.03
104E-5(14)                                                  50.03
105-33                                                      111.03
105-53                                                      111.01,
                                                            111.02
105-164.4                                                   31.01
105-277.1                                                   50.63
105-277.2                                                   156.06
105-277.2 - 105.277.7                                       161.06,
                                                            161.08
105-277.2 (1, 2, 3)                                         161.06
105-277.3                                                   161.06
105-278.3                                                   150.29
106-735 - 106-743                                           161.02
106-739                                                     161.09
106-740                                                     161.10
113A-85                                                     155.08
Ch. 113A, Art. 14                                           163.02
Ch. 113A, Art.14 (113A-205 et seq.)                         150.70
113A-206(6)                                                 150.70
121-35                                                      161.06
130-17 (now repealed)                                       152.01
130A-185                                                    90.36
130A-196                                                    90.35
130A-197                                                    90.36
130A-200                                                    90.03
Ch. 130A, Art. 9(130A-290 et seq.)                          151.05,
                                                            155.08
130A-290(a)(6)                                              151.05
130A-290(a)(35)                                             151.05
130A-290(a)(36)                                             151.05
131F-3                                                      99.02
132-1                                                       31.03,
                                                            31.17
136-102.6                                                   156.45
136-102.6(f)                                                156.45
136-141 - 136-155                                           93.03,
                                                            93.04
Ch. 143 - 149                                               152.01
Ch. 143, Art. 9B                                            152.03
Ch. 143, Art. 21                                            155.01
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6                                    151.01
Ch. 143, Art. 21A (143-215.75 et seq.)                      50.03
143-138                                                     92.01
143-143.9(6)                                                154.02
143-143.15                                                  151.41
143-212                                                     155.08
143-214.5                                                   155.01
143-214.5(d2)                                               155.03
143-215.1                                                   50.03
143-215.6A                                                  155.05
143.215.10B(1)                                              163.04
143-215.58                                                  151.13,
                                                            151.28
143-215.58                                                  151.28,
                                                            151.99
143-215.77A                                                 98.04
153-185 et seq.                                             161.11
153-201                                                     161.11
Ch. 153A, Art. 6                                            151.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 6 (153A-121 et seq.)                         95.02
Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Sec. 121                                  155.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 6, Part 121                                  151.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 12                                           91.002
Ch. 153, Art. 18, Part 4 (now repealed)                     153.06
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 2 (153A-330 et seq.) (now repealed) 150.01,
                                                            150.55
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 3 (now repealed)                    151.01
Ch. 153A, Art. 18, Part 4 (153A-350 et seq.) (now repealed) 150.55,
                                                            151.01
                                                            10.01,
153A-49                                                     10.19,
                                                            10.20
153A-121                                                    50.02,
                                                            98.03
153A-121 et seq.                                            165.02
                                                            10.99,
                                                            50.76,
                                                            93.99,
153A-123                                                    97.99,
                                                            99.99,
                                                            150.99,
                                                            162.99,
                                                            165.99
153A-123(d)                                                 90.68,
                                                            95.99
153A-123(e)                                                 90.68,
                                                            95.99
153A-132.1                                                  50.02
153A-133                                                    97.01
153A-136                                                    50.02
153A-140                                                    98.09
153A-156                                                    31.15
153A-292                                                    50.60
153A-340 (now repealed)                                     152.01
Ch. 158, Art. 2                                             153.07
Ch. 160A, Art. 8                                            151.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 15                                           163.04
160A-353                                                    94.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 2                                            166.04
160D, Arts. 7, 9, 11                                        151.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 11                                           153.06
160D-104                                                    158.06,
                                                            160.08
160D-108                                                    155.08
                                                            152.11,
                                                            154.13 ,
                                                            155.10,
                                                            155.70,   
                                                            156.66 ,
160D-109                                                    157.11,
                                                            158.16,
                                                            160.12,
                                                            162.13,
                                                            163.78,
                                                            164.94,
                                                            166.15
160D-201                                                    157.03
160D-202(b)                                                 166.04
160D-401(a)                                                 166.03
                                                            158.06,
160D-403(a)                                                 158.07,
                                                            160.08
160D-403(e)                                                 158.08
160D-403(f)                                                 160.08
                                                            152.99,
                                                            154.99,
                                                            156.99 ,
                                                            157.99,  
160D-404                                                    158.99,
                                                            160.99,
                                                            162.99,
                                                            163.99,
                                                            164.99,
                                                            166.99
                                                            157.07 ,
160D-404(a)                                                 158.13,
                                                            163.75
                                                            152.13,
                                                            154.12 ,
                                                            155.66,   
                                                            156.34 ,
160D-405                                                    157.06 ,
                                                            158.12,
                                                            160.11,
                                                            162.12,
                                                            163.50
                                                            152.13,
                                                            153.04,
                                                            154.12,
160D-405(c)                                                 157.06 ,
                                                            158.12,
                                                            162.12,
                                                            160.11,
                                                            162.12
                                                            152.13,
                                                            153.04,
                                                            154.12,
160D-406                                                    156.34 ,
                                                            157.06 ,
                                                            158.12,
                                                            160.11,
                                                            162.12
160D-801                                                    156.02
160D-802(a)(1) through (a)(5)                               155.08
160D-807                                                    156.98
160D-901                                                    154.01,
                                                            162.02
160D-902                                                    160.03
160D-910                                                    152.01 ,
                                                            163.02
160D-926                                                    155.01
160D-932                                                    158.03
160D-1104                                                   153.06
Ch. 166A                                                    98.03
166A-8                                                      30.02
                                                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     150.01 -
                     150.08,
                     150.20 -
                     150.29,
—      7-7-75      150.41 -
                     150.46,
                     150.55 -
                     150.61,
                     150.99
                     95.01 -
—      6-2-80      95.04,
                     95.99
—      3-7-83      111.01 -
                     111.03
—      12-21-83    150.70
—      - -87       90.38
—      10-18-89    150.30
                     30.01 -
                     30.13,
—      - -90       30.25 -
                     30.33,
                     30.99
—      1-2-90      T.S.O. I
                     110.01 -
—      2-5-90      110.21,
                     110.99
                     91.001 -
                     91.003,
—      5-7-90      91.015 -
                     91.019,
                     91.999
—      4-17-91     150.07,
                     150.99
                     31.01 -
—      7-17-91     31.04,
                     31.99
—      5-4-92      T.S.O. I
                     91.071,
                     91.072,
                     91.085,
—      11-18-92    91.086,
                     91.101,
                     91.112,
                     91.113
—      5-19-93     10.99
—      9-15-93     32.01 -
                     32.03
—      10-20-93    153.01 -
                     153.07
                     155.01 -
                     155.03,
                     155.15 -
                     155.19,
                     155.30 -
—      12-20-93    155.39,
                     155.50,
                     155.51,
                     155.65 -
                     155.72,
                     155.98,
                     155.99
—      6-6-94      T.S.O. I
—      - -95       50.76
                     92.01 -
—      - -95       92.08,
                     92.99
                     154.01 -
—      3-22-95     154.10,
                     154.99
                     94.01 -
—      6-21-95     94.08,
                     94.99
                     50.01 -
                     50.07,
                     50.20 -
                     50.28,
—      8-7-95      50.40 -
                     50.49,
                     50.60 -
                     50.64,
                     50.75,
                     50.99
                     90.01 -
                     90.08,
                     90.20 -
                     90.22,
                     90.35 -
—      9-20-95     90.39,
                     90.50 -
                     90.54,
                     90.65 -
                     90.68,
                     90.99
—      12-20-95    50.20,
                     50.99
—      11-6-95     32.12
                     156.01 -
                     156.06,
                     156.15 -
                     156.18,
                     156.25,
                     156.28,
                     156.29 ,
—      3-20-96     156.31 -
                     156.35,  
                     156.45,
                     156.46,
                     156.55 -
                     156.57,
                     156.65,
                     156.98,
                     156.99
—      5-6-96      T.S.O. I
                     96.01 -
—      7-17-96     96.08,
                     96.99
—      2-3-97      156.47 -
                     156.50
                     90.01,
—      3-3-97      90.20,
                     90.36
—      3-7-97      T.S.O. I
—      4-7-97      T.S.O. I
                     158.01 -
                     158.08,
                     158.10,
—      6-2-97      158.11,
                     158.13,
                     158.15,
                     158.99
—      7-23-97     T.S.O. I
—      10-22-97    T.S.O. I
                     110.02,
—      2-2-98      110.08,
                     110.16
                     90.04,
—      6-15-98     90.05,
                     90.08,
                     90.51
—      6-1-98      T.S.O. I
—      6-30-98     T.S.O. I
                     97.01 -
—      7-20-98     97.03,
                     97.99
—      10-5-98     T.S.O. I
—      1-4-99      156.48
—      2-1-99      156.46
—      10-4-99     150.02
—      11-1-99     90.99
—      2-21-00     T.S.O. I
—      8-21-00     98.01 -
                     98.09
                     31.15 -
—      8-21-00     31.17,
                     31.99
—      7-16-01     161.01 -
                     161.13
—      9-17-01     92.05
                     156.06,
                     156.28,
                     156.29,
—      4-8-02      156.32 ,
                     156.45,
                     156.46,
                     156.65
—      5-6-02      90.22,
                     156.34
—      6-30-02     T.S.O. I
—      7-1-02      150.29
—      3-3-03      T.S.O. I
—      7-7-03      T.S.O. I
                     99.01 -
—      7-7-03      99.04,
                     99.99
—      9-8-03      153.04
—      11-3-03     90.04
—      6-21-04     93.01 -
                     93.09
—      9-7-04      T.S.O. I
—      10-18-04    32.13,
                     50.25
—      10-18-04    32.10
                     158.05,
—      2-7-05      158.14,
                     158.15 ,
                     158.99
—      6-6-05      158.09
—      7-5-05      33.01 -
                     33.06
—      1-9-06      153.04
—      4-3-06      156.06,
                     156.36
—      7-1-06      50.99
—      7-1-06      92.05
—      7-1-06      150.29
—      —         156.06
—      10-18-06    T.S.O. I
—      7-1-07      150.29
—      6-18-07     T.S.O. I
—      7- -07      156.06
—      7- -07      156.30
—      9-4-07      T.S.O. I
—      10-1-07     T.S.O. I
                     164.01 -
                     164.05,
                     164.20 -
                     164.25,
                     164.40 -
                     164.42,
—      1-22-08     164.55 -
                     164.61,
                     164.75,
                     164.76,
                     164.90 -
                     164.93,
                     164.99
—      4-7-08      T.S.O. I
—      6-30-08     T.S.O. I
                     153.08,
—      9-2-08      154.11,
                     156.07,
                     160.08
—      11-3-08     T.S.O. I
—      5-18-09     153.04
—      6-15-09     156.46
                     32.01,
—      9-8-09      32.02,
                     32.03
                     151.01 -
                     151.12,
                     151.25 -
                     151.29,
—      9-21-09     151.40 -
                     151.45,
                     151.60,
                     151.61,
                     151.99
                     152.01 -
—      10-19-09    152.11,
                     152.99
—      8-2-10      152.03
                     157.01 -
—      1-18-11     157.10,
                     157.99
                     150.02,
                     150.04,
                     150.20,
—      2-4-11      150.22,
                     150.26,
                     150.29,
                     150.40,
                     150.56
—      2-21-11     112.01
—      8-15-11     164.22
—      8-15-11     164.22
—      2-20-12     32.10 -
                     32.12
                     93.99,
                     152.99,
                     154.99,
                     156.06,
                     156.32 ,
—      3-5-12      156.98,
                     156.99,
                     157.07,
                     157.99,
                     158.99,
                     163.99,
                     164.99
                     91.001 -
                     91.003,
                     91.015 -
                     91.019,
                     91.030,
                     91.031,
                     91.040 -
                     91.047,
                     91.055 -
                     91.061,
—      3-19-12     91.070 -
                     91.073,
                     91.085 -
                     91.091,
                     91.100 -
                     91.102,
                     91.110 -
                     91.118,
                     91.999,
                     160.01 -
                     160.10,
                     160.99
                     165.01-
—      7-16-12     165.10,
                     165.99
                     100.01 -
—      10-1-12     100.06,
                     100.99
—      6-18-13     150.29
—      4-21-14     T.S.O. I
—      5-19-14     153.04
--       6-16-14     32.11
—      6-30-14     T.S.O. I
                     50.21 ,
                     50.22 ,
--       12-15-14    50.24 ,
                     50.25 ,
                     50.99
--       1-5-15      50.24
                     158.01 -
                     158.08,
                     158.10,
--       4-20-15     158.11,
                     158.13 -
                     158.15,
                     158.17,
                     158.99
--       5-4-15      32.01 -
                     32.03
                     166.01 -
--       10-3-16     166.14,
                     166.99
--       8-21-17     T.S.O. I
--       8-21-17     T.S.O. I
--       6-3-19      T.S.O. I
                     96.01,
--       11-18-19    96.02,
                     96.04,
                     96.05
—      1-7-19      150.29
—      10-21-19    T.S.O. I
—      1-6-20      T.S.O. I
—      2-3-20      T.S.O. I
—      3-16-20     T.S.O. I
—      3-16-20     T.S.O. I
                     158.01 -
                     158.08,
—      10-19-20    158.10 -
                     158.15,
                     158.17,
                     158.99
                     91.001 -
                     91.003,
                     91.015 -
                     91.019,
                     91.030,
                     91.031,
                     91.040 -
                     91.047,
                     91.055 -
—      4-5-21      91.061,
                     91.070 -
                     91.073,
                     91.085 -
                     91.091,
                     91.100 -
                     91.102,
                     91.110 -
                     91.120,
                     91.999
—      6-21-21     50.63
—      7-6-21      150.29
—      5-2-22      161.06 -
                     161.13
                     90.01 -
                     90.08,
                     90.20 -
                     90.22,
                     90.35 -
—      10-17-22    90.40,
                     90.50 -
                     90.54,
                     90.65 -
                     90.68,
                     90.99
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
—      12-19-22    151.29,
                     151.40 -
                     151.45,
                     151.60 -
                     151.64
                     156.01 -
                     156.07,
                     156.15 -
                     156.18,
                     156.25 -
                     156.29,
                     156.31 -
—      12-19-22    156.36,
                     156.45 -
                     156.50,
                     156.55 -
                     156.57,
                     156.65 -
                     156.67,
                     156.98,
                     156.99
                     157.01 -
                     157.12,
                     157.99,
                     164.01 -
                     164.05,
                     164.20 -
                     164.25,
--       4-17-23     164.40 -
                     164.42,
                     164.55 -
                     164.61,
                     164.75,
                     164.76,
                     164.90 -
                     164.95,
                     164.99
                     152.01 -
--       5-15-23     152.14,
                     152.99
--       5-15-23     153.01 -
                     153.09
                     163.01 -
                     163.04,
                     163.20,
                     163.21,
                     163.35,
--       7-17-23     163.36,
                     163.50 -
                     163.58,
                     163.75 -
                     163.81,
                     163.99
                     166.01 -
--       7-17-23     166.16,
                     166.99
                     156.01 -
                     156.07,
                     156.15 -
                     156.18,
                     156.25 -
                     156.36,
--       8-21-23     156.45 -
                     156.50,
                     156.55 -
                     156.57,
                     156.65 -
                     156.67,
                     156.98,
                     156.99
                     158.01 -
--       8-21-23     158.17,
                     158.99
                     160.01 -
--       8-21-23     160.13,
                     160.99
                     154.01 -
--       9-18-2023   154.14,
                     154.99
                     155.01 -
                     155.10,
                     155.15 -
                     155.19,
--       10-16-23    155.30 -
                     155.41,
                     155.50,
                     155.51,
                     155.65 -
                     155.72
--       2-19-24     156.29,
                     156.67
—      7-1-24      50.24,
                     50.49
                     162.01 -
—      7-15-24     162.14,
                     162.99
                    
 
 
