ASHEBORO, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-41 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2 ORD 2-25, passed 1-9-25, and
State legislation current through 2024 A.L.S. #3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   § 1.1.   Incorporation and general powers.
   § 1.2.   Exercise of powers.
   § 1.3.   Enumerated powers not exclusive.
   § 1.4.   Form of government; certain general laws not applicable.
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
   § 2.1.   Existing corporate boundaries.
   § 2.2.   Extension of corporate boundaries.
Article III. Mayor and City Council
   § 3.1.   Composition of city council.
   § 3.2.   Mayor and mayor pro tempore.
   § 3.3.   Terms; qualifications; vacancies.
   § 3.4.   Compensation of mayor and councilmembers.
   § 3.5.   Organization of council; oaths of office.
   § 3.6.   Meetings of council.
   § 3.7.   Quorum; votes.
   § 3.8.   Ordinances and resolutions.
Article IV. Election Procedure
   § 4.20.   Regular municipal elections.
Article V. City Manager
   § 5.1.   Appointment; compensation.
   § 5.2.   Chief administrator.
   § 5.3.   Duties of city manager.
Article VI. City Attorney
   § 6.1.   Appointment; qualifications; term; compensation.
   § 6.2.   Duties of city attorney.
Article VII. Administrative Officers and Employees
   § 7.1.   City clerk.
   § 7.2.   City tax collector.
   § 7.3.   City accountant.
   § 7.4.   Consolidation of functions.
Article VIII. Finance and Taxation
   § 8.1.   Custody of city money.
   § 8.2.   Independent audit.
Article IX. Disposal of Property
   § 9.3.   Use and disposal of real or personal property.
Article X. Police
   § 10.1.   Jurisdiction extended.
   § 10.2.   Effect of ordinances on city property.
Article XI. Street and Sidewalk Improvements.
   § 11.1.   Authority.
   § 11.2.   Street improvements; when petition unnecessary.
   § 11.3.   Street improvement defined.
   § 11.4.   Sidewalk improvements.
   § 11.5.   Assessment procedure.
   § 11.6.   Effect of assessments.
   § 11.7.   Maintenance of sidewalks.
   § 11.8.   Acceptance of conveyance in satisfaction of assessments.
Article XII. Water and Sewer Improvements
   § 12.1.   Laterals included in cost.
   § 12.2.   Corner lot exemptions.
   § 12.3.   Acreage charges.
Article XIII. Regulatory Powers
   § 13.1.   Subdivision control.
   § 13.2.   Regulatory codes.
Article XIV. Airport Authority
   § 14.1.   Creation.
   § 14.2.   Membership.
   § 14.3.   Duties of authority.
   § 14.4.   Powers of authority.
   § 14.5.   Limitations upon powers.
Article XV. Claims against the City
   § 15.1.   Presentation of claims; suit upon claims.
   § 15.2.   Settlement of claims by city manager.
SECTIONS IN ADDITION TO CITY CHARTER
   § 2.   Golf commission and fishing commission abolished and succeeded by the
city.
   § 3.   Purpose of Act.
   § 4.   Acts not affected.
   § 5.   Acts repealed.
   § 6.   Savings provisions.
   § 7.   Acts heretofore repealed are not revived.
   § 8.   Effect of Act upon city ordinances, etc., and upon actions and
proceedings.
   § 9.   Severability.
   § 10.   General repealer.
   § 11.   Effective date.
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ASHEBORO.
   The General Assembly of North Carolina do enact:
Section 1. The Charter of the City of Asheboro is hereby revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ASHEBORO
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
   Sec. 1.1. Incorporation and general powers.- The City of Asheboro shall
continue to be a body politic and corporate under the name of the "City of
Asheboro," and shall continue to be vested with all property and rights which
now belong to the city; shall have perpetual succession; may have a common seal
and alter and renew the same at pleasure; may sue and be sued; may contract,
may acquire and hold all such property, real and personal, as may be devised,
bequeathed, sold or in any manner conveyed or dedicated to it, or otherwise
acquired by it, and may from time to time hold or invest, sell, or dispose of
the same; and shall have and may exercise in conformity with this Charter all
municipal powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every name
and nature.
   Sec. 1.2 Exercise of powers. - All powers, functions, rights, privileges,
and immunities of the city, its officers, agencies, or employees, shall be
carried into execution as provided by this Charter, or, if this Charter makes
no provision, as provided by ordinance or resolution of the city council and as
provided by the general laws of North Carolina pertaining to municipal
corporations.
   Sec. 1.3 Enumerated powers not exclusive. - The enumeration of particular
powers by this Charter shall not be held or deemed to be exclusive but, in
addition to the powers enumerated herein or implied hereby, or those
appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the City of Asheboro shall have and
may exercise all powers which are granted to municipal corporations by the
general laws of North Carolina and all powers which, under the Constitution of
North Carolina, it would be competent for this Charter specifically to
enumerate.
   Sec. 1.4 Form of government; certain general laws not applicable. - The form
of government of the City of Asheboro shall be the council-manager form, as
specified in this Charter.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   Sec. 2.1 Existing corporate boundaries. - The corporate boundaries of the
City of Asheboro shall be as follows until changed in accordance with law:
   Beginning at a concrete monument in the intersection of Country Club Drive
and Fairway Road in the City of Asheboro, North Carolina, said concrete
monument being an existing corporate limit corner of the City of Asheboro,
North Carolina and running north 18 degrees, 12 minutes west 337.28 feet to a
corporate limit marker on the north side of Dixie Drive (U.S. Highway No. 64);
thence south 72 degrees, 40 minutes west 822.31 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence north 5 degrees, 36 minutes east 187.71 feet to a corporate
limit marker; thence south 85 degrees, 56 minutes west 138.56 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence south 7 degrees, 28 minutes west 231.43 feet to
a corporate limit marker; thence south 70 degrees, 44 minutes west 426.23 feet
to a corporate limit marker; thence north 66 degrees, 42 minutes west 223.70
feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 28 degrees, 48 minutes west
425.62 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 62 degrees, 26 minutes
east 899.76 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 3 degrees, 51
minutes east 238.06 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 86 degrees,
01 minutes east 173.66 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 5
degrees, 41 minutes west 309.67 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north
62 degrees, 26 minutes east 597.39 feet to a corporate limit marker, on the
south side of Albemarle Road; thence north 18 degrees, 6 minutes west 994.25
feet to a corporate limit marker north of Brady Avenue; thence north 13
degrees, 3 minutes west 828.80 feet to a corporate limit marker north of Britt
Avenue; thence north 75 degrees, 23 minutes west 180.40 feet to a corporate
limit marker on the east side of Uwharrie Street; thence north 1 degree, 21
minutes west 362.23 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 7 degrees,
34 minutes east 245.02 feet to a corporate limit marker on the east side of
Uwharrie Street; thence north 13 degrees, 3 minutes west 73.45 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence north 13 degrees, 5 minutes, 45 seconds west
2,867.82 feet to a corporate limit marker west of Spring Garden Street; thence
south 83 degrees, 29 minutes west 1,906.12 feet to a corporate limit marker;
thence north 41 degrees, 54 minutes west 1,158.33 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence north 1 degree, 10 1/2 minutes east 2,671.61 feet to a corporate
limit marker; thence north 36 degrees, 17 minutes east 591.96 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence north 37 degrees 29 minutes west 1,043.84 feet
to a corporate limit marker; thence north 57 degrees, 57 minutes west 539.90
feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 2 degrees, 58 minutes west
230.32 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 60 degrees, 7 minutes
east 763.07 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 14 degrees, 54
minutes east 313.44 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 44 degrees,
15 minutes east 903.60 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 74
degrees, 59 minutes west 801.70 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north
27 degrees, 46 minutes east 484.16 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence
north 64 degrees, 37 minutes east 504.63 feet to a corporate limit marker;
thence north 6 degrees, 26 minutes east 463.32 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence north 7 degrees, 17 minutes east 343.09 feet to a corporate
limit marker; thence north 4 degrees, 19 minutes east 219.32 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence north 14 degrees, 3 minutes west 176.83 feet to
a corporate limit marker; thence north 79 degrees, 59 minutes east 225.00 feet
to a corporate limit marker in Westover Terrace; thence south 55 degrees, 11
minutes east 1,477.29 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 1 degree,
39 minutes west 3,840.99 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 52
degrees, 55 1/2 minutes east 645.27 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence
north 87 degrees, 20 1/2 minutes east 1,157.80 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence north 69 degrees, 51 minutes, 15 seconds east 4,049.40 feet to a
corporate limit marker; west of York Street; thence north 85 degrees, 41 1/
2 minutes east 4,146.00 feet to a corporate limit marker north of Pritchard
Street; thence south 19 degrees, 31 minutes east 3,672.89 feet to a corporate
limit marker between Cedar Falls Road and East Salisbury Street; thence south 3
degrees, 45 minutes west 1,579.40 feet to a corporate limit marker at the
northwest corner of Coleridge Road and East Salisbury Street; thence south 10
degrees, 59 minutes east 1,234.69 feet to a corporate limit marker on the west
side of Dublin Road; thence south 12 degrees, 40 minutes west 297.87 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence south 12 degrees, 42 minutes west 438.83 feet to
a corporate limit marker; thence south 20 degrees, 40 minutes west 202.07 feet
to a corporate limit marker at the northwest corner of Dublin Road and Redding
Road; thence south 72 degrees, 22 minutes east 258.82 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence south 12 degrees, 39 minutes west 710.36 feet to a corporate
limit marker; thence north 84 degrees, 36 minutes west 419.50 feet to a
corporate limit marker; thence south 5 degrees, 37 minutes west 142.41 feet to
a corporate limit marker; thence south 60 degrees, 23 minutes west 222.65 feet
to a corporate limit marker; thence south 2 degrees, 35 1/2 minutes west
1,182.12 feet to a corporate limit marker; on the north side of Dixie Drive
(U.S. Highway No. 64) west of Dublin Road; thence south 62 degrees, 37 minutes
west 716.11 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 62 degrees, 44
minutes west 1,315.93 feet to a corporate limit marker at the northeast corner
of Shamrock Road and Dixie Drive (U.S. Highway No. 64); thence south 4 degrees,
4 minutes east 399.38 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 80
degrees, 46 minutes east 186.79 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south
1 degree, 11 minutes west 962.67 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south
89 degrees, 30 minutes west 1,070.02 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence
north 2 degrees, 46 minutes west 574.41 feet to a corporate limit marker;
thence north 78 degrees, 32 minutes east 388.51 feet to a corporate limit
marker; thence north 9 degrees, 57 minutes east 504.52 feet to a corporate
limit marker on the north side of Dixie Drive (U. S. Highway No. 64) west of
Shamrock Road; thence south 67 degrees, 6 minutes west 393.73 feet to a
corporate limit marker on the west side of Cliff Road; thence north 3 degrees,
0 minutes west 286.43 feet to a corporate limit marker on the west side of
Cliff Road; thence south 87 degrees, 21 minutes west 1,213.01 feet to a
corporate limit marker north of East Dorsett Avenue; thence north 14 degrees,
52 minutes west 572.96 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 49
degrees, 50 1/2 minutes west 354.07 feet to a corporate limit marker on the
west side of Cox Street; thence south 32 degrees, 53 minutes west 519.59 feet
to a corporate limit marker; thence south 2 degrees, 18 minutes east 2,092.16
feet to a corporate limit marker north of Ridge Street; thence south 14
degrees, 18 minutes west 339.54 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north
85 degrees, 20 minutes west 209.07 feet to a corporate limit marker between
Third Street and Second Street; thence south 6 degrees, 51 minutes west 418.22
feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 83 degrees, 12 minutes west
293.73 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence south 12 degrees, 19 minutes
west 478.53 feet to a corporate limit marker; on the south side of Foster
Street; thence north 81 degrees, 47 minutes west 398.55 feet to a corporate
limit marker; thence north 74 degrees, 13 minutes west 348.18 feet to a
corporate limit marker on the west side of South Fayetteville Street; thence
south 16 degrees, 34 minutes west 3,962.73 feet to a corporate limit marker on
west side of South Fayetteville Street; thence north 85 degrees, 19 minutes
west 3,707.28 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 1 degree, 12
minutes east 1,594.38 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence north 60
degrees, 42 1/2 minutes east 3,250.52 feet to a corporate limit marker; thence
north 2 degrees, 36 minutes east 2,249.38 feet to a corporate limit marker;
said corporate limit marker being a concrete monument, the point of beginning
and containing 4.80 square miles more or less.
   All bearings are based on true north.
   Sec. 2.2 Extension of corporate boundaries. - All extensions of the
corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General Statutes of North
Carolina.
ARTICLE III. MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
   Sec. 3.1 Composition of city council. - The city council shall consist of
seven members to be elected by and from the qualified voters of the city voting
at large in the manner provided by article IV.
(Amended by Ord. passed 7-16-87)
   Sec. 3.2 Mayor and mayor pro tempore. - The mayor shall be elected by and
from the qualified voters of the city voting at large in the manner provided by
article IV. The mayor shall be the official head of the city government and
shall preside at all meetings of the city council. Where there is an equal
division upon any question, or in the appointment of officers, by the council,
the mayor shall determine the matter by his vote, and he shall vote in no other
case. The mayor shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as are or
may be conferred upon him by the General Laws of North Carolina, by this
Charter, and by the ordinances of the city. The city council shall choose one
of its number to act as mayor pro tempore, and he shall perform the duties of
the mayor in the mayor's absence or disability. The mayor pro tempore as such
shall have no fixed term of office, but shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the remaining members of the council.
   Sec. 3.3 Terms; qualifications; vacancies. -
   (a)    The mayor and the members of the city council shall serve for terms
of four years, beginning the day and hour of the organizational meeting
following their election, as established by ordinance in accordance with this
Charter; provided, they shall serve until their successors are elected and
qualified. At the regular municipal election to be held in 1997, the four
candidates who receive the highest number of votes shall be elcted for four-
year terms, while the three candidates who receive the next highest number of
votes shall be elected for two-year terms. At the regular municipal election to
be held in 1999, and every four years thereafter, three members of the City
Council shall be elected to serve for four-year terms. At the regular municipal
election to be held in 2001, and every four years thereafter, four members of
the City Council shall be elcted to four-year terms.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or to be elected as
mayor or as a member of the city council, or to serve in such capacity, unless
he is a resident and a qualified voter of the city.
   (c)   If any elected mayor or councilmember shall refuse to qualify, or if
there shall be any vacancy in the office of mayor or councilmember after
election and qualification, the remaining members of the council shall by
majority vote appoint some qualified person to serve for the unexpired term.
Any mayor or councilmember so appointed shall have the same authority and
powers as if regularly elected.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90; Am. Ord., passed 8-6-92; Am. Ord.
01-96, passed 1-4-96)
   Sec. 3.4 Compensation of mayor and councilmembers. - The mayor shall receive
for his services such salary as the city council shall determine, and no
increase or reduction in his salary shall be made to take effect during the
term in which it is voted. The city council may establish a salary for its
members which may be increased or reduced, but no increase shall be made to
take effect during the respective term in which it is voted.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 3.5 Organization of council; oaths of office. - The mayor and city
council shall meet and organize for the transaction of business at a time
established by ordinance, following each election and prior to January first.
Before entering upon their offices, the mayor and each councilmember shall take
and subscribe before the city clerk, and have entered upon the minutes of the
council, the following oath of office: `I,                   , do solemnly
swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent
therewith, and that I will faithfully perform the duties of the office of
                  , on which I am about to enter, according to my best skill
and ability; so help me, God.'
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90; Am.
Ord., passed 8-6-92)
   Sec. 3.6 Meetings of council. -
   (a)   The city council shall fix suitable times for its regular meetings,
which shall be as often as once monthly. Special meetings may be held on the
call of the mayor or a majority of the council members, and those not joining
in the call shall be notified in writing. Any business may be transacted at a
special meeting that might be transacted at a regular meeting.
   (b)   All meetings of the city council shall be open to the public. The
council shall not by executive session or otherwise formally consider or vote
upon any question in private session.
   Sec. 3.7 Quorum; votes. -
   (a)   A majority of the members elected to the city council shall constitute
a quorum for the conduct of business, but a less number may adjourn from time
to time and compel the attendance of absent members in such manner as may be
prescribed by ordinance.
   (b)   Four affirmative votes, which may include the vote of the mayor, shall
be necessary to adopt any ordinance, or any resolution or motion having the
effect of an ordinance. All other matters to be voted upon shall be decided by
a majority vote of the members present and voting.
   Sec. 3.8 Ordinances and resolutions. - The adoption, amendment, repeal,
pleading, or proving of ordinances shall be in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the General Laws of North Carolina not inconsistent with this
Charter. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon all ordinances and resolutions
and entered upon the minutes of the council. The enacting clause of all
ordinances shall be: `Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of
Asheboro'. All ordinances and resolutions shall take effect upon adoption
unless otherwise provided therein.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTION PROCEDURE
   Sec. 4.20 Regular Municipal Elections. - Regular municipal elections shall
be held in each odd-numbered year in accordance with the uniform municipal
election laws of North Carolina. Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan
basis, and the results determined using the nonpartisan primary and election
method as provided in G.S. 163-294.
(Amended by Senate Bill 258, passed 6-5-13)
ARTICLE V. CITY MANAGER
   Sec. 5.1 Appointment; compensation. - The city council shall appoint an
officer whose title shall be city manager and who shall be the chief executive
officer of the city and the head of the administrative branch of the city
government. The city manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis
of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to
his actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the
duties of his office as hereinafter prescribed. At the time of his appointment
he need not be a resident of the city, but shall reside therein, or within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, during his tenure of office. No
person elected as mayor or as a member of the city council shall be eligible
for appointment as city manager until one year shall have elapsed following the
expiration of the term for which he was elected. The city manager shall serve
at the pleasure of the city council and shall receive such salary as the
council shall fix. In case of absence or disability of the city manager, the
council may designate a qualified officer or employee of the city to perform
the duties of the office during such absence or disability.
(Amended by Senate Bill 628, passed 6-6-91)
   Sec. 5.2 Chief administrator. - The city manager shall be responsible to the
city council for the proper administration of all the affairs of the city. As
chief administrator, the city manager shall have the power to appoint and
remove all officers, department heads, and employees in the administrative
service of the city, except the city attorney, who shall be appointed as
provided in article VI. Neither the mayor nor the city council nor any of its
committees or members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to,
or his removal from, office by the city manager, or in any manner take part in
the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative
service of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the mayor and the city
council and its members shall deal with officers and employees in the
administrative service only through the city manager, and neither the mayor nor
the city council nor any of its members shall give orders or directions to any
subordinate of the city manager, either publicly or privately.
   Sec. 5.3 Duties of city manager. - It shall be the duty of the city manager
to supervise the administration of the affairs of the city; to see that the
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the city council and the laws of
the state are faithfully executed and enforced; to make such recommendations to
the city council concerning the affairs of the city as he shall deem expedient;
to keep the city council advised of the financial condition and the future
financial needs of the city; to attend all meetings of the city council and to
prepare and submit to the council such reports as he may deem expedient or as
may be required of him by the council; and to perform all other duties as may
be required of him by the city council.
ARTICLE VI. CITY ATTORNEY
   Sec. 6.1 Appointment; qualifications; term; compensation. - The city council
shall appoint a city attorney who shall be an attorney at law licensed to
engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and who need not be a resident
of the city during his tenure. The city attorney shall serve at the pleasure of
the city council and shall receive such compensation as the council shall
determine.
   Sec. 6.2 Duties of city attorney. - It shall be the duty of the city
attorney to prosecute and defend suits for and against the city; to advise the
mayor, city council, city manager, and other city officials with respect to the
affairs of the city; to draw all legal documents relating to the affairs of the
city; to draw proposed ordinances when requested to do so; to inspect and pass
upon all agreements, contracts, franchises and other instruments with which the
city may be concerned; to attend all meetings of the city council; and to
perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his position
as city attorney.
ARTICLE VII. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
   Sec. 7.1 City clerk. - The city manager may appoint a city clerk to keep a
journal of the proceedings of the city council and to maintain in a safe place
all records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or as the [city] manager may
direct.
   Sec. 7.2 City tax collector. - The city manager may appoint a tax collector
or the city council may contract with an outside agent to collect all taxes,
licenses, fees and other moneys belonging to the city, subject to the
provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the city, and he shall
diligently comply with and enforce all the General Laws of North Carolina
relating to the collection, sale, and foreclosure of taxes by municipalities.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 7.3 Finance officer. - The city manager may appoint a finance officer
to perform the duties of the accountant as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 7.4 Consolidation of functions. - The city manager may, with the
approval of the city council, consolidate any two or more of the positions of
city clerk, city tax collector, and finance officer, or any other positions, or
may assign the functions of any one or more of such positions to the holder or
holders of any other of such positions. The city manager may also, with the
approval of the city council, himself perform all or any part of the functions
of any positions or offices, in lieu of appointing other persons to perform the
same.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
ARTICLE VIII. FINANCE AND TAXATION
   Sec. 8.1 Custody of city money. - All moneys received by the city for or in
connection with the business of the city government shall be paid promptly into
the city depositories. Such institutions shall be designated by the city
council in accordance with such regulations and subject to such requirements as
to security for deposits and interest thereon as may be established by the
General Statutes of North Carolina. All interest on moneys belonging to the
city shall accrue to the benefit of the city. All moneys belonging to the city
shall be disbursed only in accordance with the provisions of the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 8.2 Independent audit. - As soon as practicable after the close of each
fiscal year, an independent audit shall be made of all books and accounts of
the city government by a certified public accountant or a qualified public
accountant registered under chapter 93 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, who shall have no personal interest directly or indirectly in the
affairs of the city or of any of its officers. The city council shall select
the public accountant, and the results of such audit shall be made available
for inspection by an interested citizen of the city, and may be published if so
ordered by the city council.
ARTICLE IX. DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY
   Sec. 9.3 Use and disposal of real or personal property. - The City Council
shall have the power granted by Chapter 160A, Article 12, of the General
Statutes to sell or lease any real or personal property.
(Added by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
ARTICLE X. POLICE.
   Sec. 10.1 Jurisdiction Extended. -
   (a)   The City of Asheboro Police Force shall have all the powers invested
in law enforcement officers by statute or common law within the corporate
limits of the city and these powers shall be extended one mile outside of the
corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   The jurisdiction of the City of Asheboro Police Force shall include
all property owned by or leased to the city, whether located within or outside
the corporate limits.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 10.2 Effect of ordinances on city property. - All applicable ordinances
of the city shall have full force and effect upon and within all property and
facilities owned by the city, whether located within or outside the corporate
limits.
ARTICLE XI. STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS
   Sec. 11.1 Authority. - In addition to any authority which is now or may
hereafter be granted by general law to the city for making street and sidewalk
improvements, the city council is hereby authorized to make street and sidewalk
improvements and to assess the cost thereof against abutting property owners in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
   Sec. 11.2 Street improvements; when petition unnecessary. - The city council
may order street improvements and assess the cost thereof, exclusive of the
costs incurred at street intersections, against the abutting properties at an
equal rate per front foot, without the necessity of a petition, upon the
finding by the council as a fact:
   (a)   That the street improvement project does not exceed twelve hundred
lineal feet, and
   (b)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic and
it is in the public interest to make such improvement, or
   (c)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved, or
   (d)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved; provided, that assessments for widening any street
or portion of street without petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the city's thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened
and improved under the authority granted by this article.
   Sec. 11.3 Street improvements defined. - For the purposes of the preceding
section, the term `street improvement' shall include grading, regrading,
surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving, the acquisition of right of
way, and the construction or reconstruction of curbs, gutters and street
drainage facilities.
   Sec. 11.4 Sidewalk improvements. - The city council is hereby authorized to
cause sidewalks to be constructed or sidewalk improvements or repairs to be
made in accordance with standards and specifications of the city, and to assess
the total cost thereof against abutting properties, without the necessity of a
petition; provided, that the council may order the cost of sidewalk
improvements made on only one side of a street to be assessed against the
properties abutting both sides of such street.
   Sec. 11.5 Assessment procedure. - In ordering street or sidewalk
improvements without a petition and assessing the cost thereof under authority
of this article, the city council shall comply with the procedure provided by
article 10, chapter 160A of the General Statutes [of North Carolina], except
those provisions relating to the petition of property owners and the
sufficiency thereof.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 11.6 Effect of assessments. - The effect of the act of levying
assessments under authority of this article shall for all purposes be the same
as if the assessments were levied under authority of article 10, chapter 160A
of the General Statutes [of North Carolina].
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 11.7 Maintenance of sidewalks. - It shall be the duty of every property
owner in the city to maintain in good repair and to keep clean and free of
debris, trash, and other obstacles and impediments the sidewalks abutting his
property. The city council is hereby authorized to establish by ordinance a
procedure whereby city forces may repair or clean any sidewalk or remove
therefrom any trash, debris, or other obstacles or impediments upon the failure
of the abutting property owner after ten days' notice to do so. In such event,
the cost of such repair, cleaning, or removal shall become a lien upon the
abutting property equal to the lien for ad valorem taxes, and may thereafter be
collected either by suit in the name of the city or by foreclosure of the lien
in the same manner and subject to the same rules, regulations, costs and
penalties as provided by law for the foreclosure of the lien on real estate for
ad valorem taxes. The authority and procedure of this section as to repair of
sidewalks shall be supplementary to the authority and procedure of section 11.4
[of this Charter], and the city council may, in its discretion, proceed under
either section in causing sidewalks to be repaired.
   Sec. 11.8 Acceptance of conveyance in satisfaction of assessments. - The
city tax collector or other official or employee of the city having charge of
the collection of special assessments, shall have the right, power, and
authority, by and with the approval of the city council first had and obtained,
to receive and accept a fee simple conveyance to the city of any lot or parcel
of land in the city, free and clear of other encumbrances, in full settlement
and satisfaction of all street and sidewalk assessments outstanding and unpaid
against such property. Such right, power, and authority, however, shall be
limited to a conveyance of the whole of the lot or parcel of land against which
the particular assessment or assessments involved were levied. No lot or tract
of land may be divided and such right, power, and authority exercised as to a
part, only, of the property originally embraced in and covered by said
assessment or assessments. In the case of such conveyance, it shall not be
necessary that the street or sidewalk assessment or assessments against the
property be foreclosed; but the city, upon the receipt of any such conveyance,
shall become and be the absolute fee simple owner of the property, as fully to
all intents and purposes as if purchased in and through foreclosure proceedings
for the enforcement of such street and sidewalk assessment or assessments.
ARTICLE XII. WATER AND SEWER IMPROVEMENTS
   Sec. 12.1 Laterals included in cost. - In ordering water or sewer line
extensions, or both, and the assessment of the costs thereof under authority of
[General Statutes, section] 160A-216 or any other law, the city council is
hereby authorized to include in such extensions water and sewer line laterals,
and to include the cost of such laterals in the total cost to be assessed upon
abutting properties.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 12.2 Corner lot exemptions. - The city council is hereby authorized to
establish, by ordinance or resolution, schedules of exemptions for assessments
for water and sewer line extensions for corner lots when water or sewer lines,
or both, are installed along both sides of such lots and when the cost of such
installation along both sides were or are financed in whole or in part by
assessments. The schedules of exemptions may be classified as to land uses
(residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, or agricultural) and shall
be uniform for each such classification used; provided, however, that no
schedule of exemptions may provide for exemption of more than seventy-five
percent of the frontage on any side of a corner lot, or one hundred fifty feet,
whichever is greater.
   Sec. 12.3 Acreage charges. - In addition to water and sewer service charges
and connection charges, the city council may establish and collect acreage
charges for the privilege of connecting to the city water and sewerage systems,
both within and outside the corporate limits, to aid in the financing of new
water and sewer mains and sewer outfalls and the replacement or enlargement of
existing mains and outfalls. Such charges shall apply uniformly to all
properties to which water or sewerage service is extended subsequent to the
establishment of such charges; provided, however, that the council may
establish higher acreage charges for property developed or to be developed for
commercial, industrial, or institutional uses than those established for
residential uses, and may base acreage charges for residential property upon
the number of dwelling units per acre of land.
ARTICLE XIII. REGULATORY POWERS
   Sec. 13.1 Subdivision control. - Any subdivision control ordinance enacted
by the city council under authority of general law may provide for the more
orderly development of subdivisions within the subdivision control jurisdiction
of the city by requiring the construction of community service facilities,
including water lines; sewer lines; street paving, curbing and guttering; and
street drainage facilities in accordance with policies established by the
council. To assure compliance with such requirements, the ordinance may require
the posting of bond or such other method as will offer guarantee of compliance.
   Sec. 13.2 Regulatory codes. - The city council is hereby authorized to make
effective and to enforce within the territory lying outside the corporate
limits and within the zoning jurisdiction thereof all ordinances and codes of
the city regulating the construction and repair of buildings, including
building codes, plumbing codes, electrical codes, heating and air conditioning
codes, fire prevention codes, minimum housing codes adopted pursuant to article
19 of chapter 160A of the General Statutes [of North Carolina], and ordinances
adopted relating to unsafe buildings. In addition, the city council is hereby
authorized to enforce in such area the North Carolina State Building Code, the
North Carolina State Plumbing Code, and the North Carolina Uniform Residential
Building Code, all as published by the North Carolina Building Code Council.
Such enforcement powers shall include the power to require that prior to the
beginning of any construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or
structure or any part or system thereof within such area, the appropriate
permit or permits be obtained from the city, and the power to make a reasonable
charge therefor; provided, that the city council may by ordinance require that
the contractor or other person charged with such construction, reconstruction,
or alteration secure such permit or permits, rather than requiring the owner of
the property to do so.
ARTICLE XIV. AIRPORT AUTHORITY
   Sec. 14.1 Creation. - There is hereby created the Asheboro Airport
Authority, hereinafter called the airport authority, which shall have the
duties and powers hereinafter enumerated, such other and additional powers as
shall hereafter be conferred upon it by the city council, and such other and
additional powers as shall be necessary and incidental to the performance of
the duties hereinafter imposed upon said airport authority.
   Sec. 14.2 Membership. - The airport authority shall consist of five members
who shall be appointed by the city council and shall serve for three year
terms.
   Each of the members appointed and their successors shall take and subscribe
before the city clerk an oath of the office and file the same with the city
council.
   Sec. 14.3 Duties of authority. - The duties of the airport authority shall
be as follows:
   (a)   Property. To assume administrative control over the real property
owned by the city and upon which its airport is constructed, and over the
personal property and fixtures used in connection therewith.
   (b)   Management. To manage and control all of the property and operate the
airport for the use and benefit of the public as a public airport and in the
manner in which it will contribute greatest to the growth, expansion, welfare
and prosperity of the city.
   (c)   Maintenance. To maintain at all times, in as good and serviceable
condition as the funds made available will permit, the entire landing area and
all buildings, improvements, facilities and equipment at the airport.
   (d)   Covenants and Restrictions. To so operate and manage the airport as to
comply with all the conditions, covenants, and restrictions contained in the
application by the city for aid from the United States Government for the
construction of said airport.
   (e)   Annual Report. To make a complete report of all of its actions
annually to the regular May meeting of the city council, and at such other
times as the city council may deem necessary or advisable, and at such times
submit such recommendations with regard to the operation of the airport as it
shall deem advisable.
   Sec. 14.4 Powers of authority. - The airport authority shall have and is
hereby given the following authority and powers:
   (a)   Organization. To adopt such bylaws for its own organization, the
management and rules of procedure for its meetings and any hearings it may wish
to hold, as it may deem advisable, and to prescribe the specific duties of its
own members.
   (b)   Rules and Regulations. To make such reasonable rules and regulations
as it may deem necessary for the proper maintenance and operation of the
airport, and to provide penalties for the violation of such rules and
regulations, and to make recommendations for the adoption of any ordinances
which are deemed necessary to maintain law and order on the airport property.
   (c)   Lease. To rent or lease the airport or any portion thereof, exclusive
of runways and other landing areas, and any of the buildings or facilities
thereon, to any person or governmental agency for the purpose of operating the
airport and doing anything incidental thereto; provided that no lease shall be
made for a period longer than three years without the approval of the city
council; and, provided further, that should the airport authority decide to
lease the airport property to any person or governmental agency, a condition of
the lease shall be that sufficient bond, insurance policy or other surety and
indemnity shall be posted to save the city harmless from all loss, damage or
liability arising out of the operation thereof by said person, or governmental
agency; and, provided further, that all contemplated leases shall be presented
to the city attorney for his approval before the execution thereof.
   (d)   Contracts. To enter into any and all contracts in its own name with
any person, and to contract for or confer the privileges or concessions of
supplying at the airport any goods, commodities, services, facilities or other
things; provided that no contract or letting of a concession shall be for a
greater period than three years without the approval of the city council; and,
provided further, that no contract or lease entered into shall pledge the
credit of the city in any manner, but the liability of the city shall be
limited to the extent of the funds appropriated to the airport authority in
each annual budget ordinance.
   (e)   Employees. To employ any and all persons upon a salary, fee, or
commission basis, which are deemed necessary to assist in the management or
operation of the airport, including the power to employ a full-time fixed base
operator on a basis to be approved by the city council.
   (f)   Charges. To determine the charge or rental for the use of or lease of
any properties, real or personal, owned or operated by its or under its
control, and the charges for any services or accommodations and the terms and
conditions upon which such properties may be used.
   (g)   Expenditures. To expend all moneys received from fees and charges made
or from the lease of any of said property or otherwise made available to the
airport authority by the city in any manner which they deem advisable in the
performance of their duties, subject only to the limitations contained in
section 14.5.
   (h)   Receipt of Moneys. To accept, receive and receipt for federal moneys,
and other moneys, either public or private, for the construction, enlargement,
improvement, maintenance, equipment or operation of the airport, and to comply
with the provisions of the laws of the United States and any rules and
regulations made thereunder, the compliance with which shall be a condition
precedent to the receiving of such moneys.
   (i)   Insurance. To purchase such insurance as the airport authority shall
deem necessary to protect the interest of the city in the airport property.
   (j)   Miscellaneous. To do any and all other things which may be necessary
or incidental to the performance of the duties of the airport authority in
operating the airport and not in conflict with any of the restrictions
hereinbefore or hereinafter set out.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
   Sec. 14.5 Limitations upon powers. - All powers and authority given and
granted to the airport authority shall be subject to the following limitations
thereon:
   (a)   Nepotism. No contract, lease, sale, purchase, or concession letting
shall be made with any person related by blood or marriage to any of the
members of the airport authority, or with any business, firm, partnership, or
corporation with which any member of the authority or a person to whom he is
related by blood or marriage is connected, either as owner, employee,
stockholder, director or otherwise, without prior approval of the contract,
lease, sale, purchase or concession letting by the city council; provided,
however, that contracts with a corporation for its general benefit, and routine
sale and purchases of regular items of merchandise and at regularly established
and reasonable prices may be made without such prior approval of the city
council.
   (b)   Discrimination. All contracts, leases, sales, purchases or fees
charged shall be upon reasonable terms and without unjust discrimination and
without the grant or exercise of any exclusive right for the use of the
airport, and particularly within the meaning of section 303 of the [federal]
Civil Aeronautics Act of 1938, and in no case shall the public be deprived of
its rightful, equal and uniform use of the airport.
   (c)   Type of Contracts. The airport authority shall make no contract,
lease, sale, purchase or any other things which shall not be consistent with
and necessary or incidental to the use of said property as a public airport,
and shall not allow the use of any building thereon for manufacturing or
industrial purposes.
   (d)   Construction. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give the
airport authority power or authority to do anything in conflict with the laws
of the United States, the laws of the State of North Carolina, or the rules and
regulations of the Civil Aeronautics Administration of the federal government.
ARTICLE XV. CLAIMS AGAINST THE CITY.
   Sec. 15.1 Presentation of claims; suit upon claims.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the City of Asheboro arising in tort
shall be presented to the city council in writing, signed by the claimant, his
attorney or agent, within ninety days after the claim or demand is due or the
cause of action accrues, and no suit or action shall be brought thereon within
thirty days or after the expiration of twelve months from the time said claim
or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so presented within
ninety days after the cause of action accrues, and unless suit is brought
within twelve months thereafter, any action thereon is barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the city on account of damages
to or compensation for real property taken or used by the city for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the city therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two years after such alleged use, the owner,
his executor, administrator, guardian, or next friend, shall have given notice
in writing to the city council of the claim, stating in the notice the date
that the alleged use commenced, a description of the property alleged to have
been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six months after the
termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three years after the happening or the infliction of the injury complained of;
or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on his behalf within six months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three years after the happening or the infliction of the
injury complained of, whichever is the longer period. The city may at any time
request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the city and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
   Sec. 15.2 Settlement of claims by city manager. - The city manager may with
the approval of the city council settle claims against the city for (1)
personal injuries or damages to property when the amount involved does not
exceed the sum of five hundred dollars and does not exceed the actual loss
sustained, including loss of time, medical expenses, and any other expense
actually incurred, and (2) the taking of small portions of private property
which are needed for the grounding of corners at intersections of streets, when
the amount involved in any such settlement does not exceed five hundred dollars
and does not exceed the actual loss sustained. Settlement of a claim by the
city manager pursuant to this section shall constitute a complete release of
the city from any and all damages sustained by the person involved in such
settlement in any manner arising out of the accident, occasion, or taking
complained of. All such settlements, and all such releases shall be approved in
advance by the city attorney.
(Amended by Senate Bill 1497, passed 6-4-90)
SECTIONS IN ADDITION TO CITY CHARTER
   Sec. 2. Golf commission and fishing commission abolished and succeeded by
the city. - The Asheboro Golf Commission, as created by chapter 240 of the
Private Laws of 1935, as amended by chapter 593 of the Session Laws of 1953, is
hereby abolished. The Municipal Fishing Commission of the City of Asheboro, as
authorized by chapter 246 of the Public-Local Laws of 1941, is hereby
abolished. From and after the ratification of this Act, all property, real and
personal, including accounts receivable, then belonging to and owned by the
Asheboro Golf Commission and belonging to and owned by the Municipal Fishing
Commission of the City of Asheboro, shall vest in, belong to, and be the
property of the City of Asheboro. The Asheboro Golf Commission and its members,
officers, and employees, and the Municipal Fishing Commission of the City of
Asheboro and its members, officers, and employees, are hereby authorized,
empowered, and directed to perform such acts and to execute such documents, not
later than June [thirtieth], 1967, as will carry into effect the provisions and
the intent of this section. Henceforth, the property and functions heretofore
administered by the Asheboro Golf Commission and the Municipal Fishing
Commission of the City of Asheboro shall be administered, performed, and
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the City of
Asheboro, as enacted by section 1 of this Act, in the same manner as other
property, functions, and departments of the city.
   Sec. 3. Purpose of Act. - The purpose of this Act is to revise the Charter
of the City of Asheboro and to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the
property, affairs, and government of the city. It is intended to continue
without interruption those provisions of prior acts which are consolidated into
this Act, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued are preserved
and may be enforced.
   Sec. 4. Acts not affected. - This Act shall not be deemed to repeal, modify,
nor in any manner to affect any of the following acts, portions of acts, or
amendments thereto, whether or not such acts, portions of acts, or amendments
are expressly set forth herein:
   (a)   Any acts concerning the property, affairs, or government of public
schools in the City of Asheboro;
   (b)   Any acts validating, confirming, approving, or legalizing official
proceedings, actions, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
   Sec. 5 Acts repealed. -
   (a)   The following acts or portions of acts, having served the purposes for
which enacted, or having been consolidated into this Act, are hereby repealed:
   c. 76, Private Laws, 1796
   c. 138, Private Laws, 1828-29
   c. 88, Private Laws, 1829-30
   c. 129, Private Laws, 1829-30
   c. 47, Private Laws, 1845
   c. 241, Private Laws, 1849
   c. 262, Private Laws, 1854-55
   c. 160, Private Laws, 1860-61
   c. 130, Private Laws, 1873-74
   c. 43, Private Laws, 1872-73
   c. 79, Private Laws, 1883
   c. 26, Private Laws, 1889
   c. 301, Private Laws, 1893
   c. 352, Private Laws, 1903
   c. 337, Private Laws, 1905
   c. 316, Private Laws, 1907
   c. 288, Private Laws, 1911
   c. 312, Private Laws, 1911
   c. 348, Private Laws, 1911
   c. 14, Private Laws, 1913
   c. 295, Private Laws, 1913
   c. 179, Private Laws, 1923
   c. 48, Private Laws, 1935
   c. 110, Private Laws, 1935
   c. 240, Private Laws, 1935
   c. 362, Public-Local Laws, 1939
   c. 246, Public-Local Laws, 1941
   c. 419, Session Laws, 1945
   c. 476, Session Laws, 1945
   c. 428, Session Laws, 1947
   c. 1221, Session Laws, 1951
   c. 593, Session Laws, 1953
   c. 916, Session Laws, 1955
   c. 839, Session Laws, 1959
   c. 733, Session Laws, 1965.
   (b)   The following Acts, applying to more than one political subdivision,
are hereby repealed in their application to the City of Asheboro:
   c. 62, Private Laws, 1933
   c. 358, Public-Local Laws, 1933
   c. 506, Public-Local Laws, 1933.
   (c)   c. 930, Session Laws, 1947, which will be superseded by full
application of the Judicial Department Act of 1965 in the County of Randolph,
is hereby repealed effective on the first Monday in December, 1970.
   Sec. 6. Saving provisions. - No provision of this Act is intended, nor shall
be construed, to affect in any way any rights or interests (whether public or
private):
   (a)   Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this Act;
   (b)   Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action heretofore taken (including the adoption of ordinances or
resolutions) pursuant to or within the scope of any provision of law repealed
by this Act.
   Sec. 7. Acts heretofore repealed are not revived. - No law heretofore
repealed expressly or by implication, and no law granting authority which has
been exhausted, shall be revived by:
   (a)   The repeal herein of any act repealing such law, or
   (b)   Any provision of this Act that disclaims an intention to repeal or
effect enumerated or designated laws.
   Sec. 8. Effect of act upon city ordinances, etc., and upon actions and
proceedings. -
   (a)   All existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Asheboro, and
all existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of the City of
Asheboro, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall continue in
full force and effect until repealed, modified or amended.
   (b)   No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this
Act by or against the City of Asheboro or any of its departments or agencies
shall be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this Act.
   Sec. 9. Severability. - If any provision of this Act or the application
thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this Act which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this
Act are declared to be severable.
   Sec. 10. General repealer. - All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with
the provisions of this Act are hereby repealed.
   Sec. 11. Effective date. - This Act shall be effective upon its
ratification. [May 16, 1967.]
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Continuations of existing ordinances
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   City seal
   
10.21   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of city
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the municipality of Asheboro
shall be designated as the Code of Asheboro, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The City of Asheboro,
North Carolina.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Randolph County, North Carolina.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the City
Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all city business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anyway be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself be repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, be substituted in
its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the 1969 Code and all ordinances adopted subsequent to the 1969 Code and
included herein, shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new
enactments.
('69 Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-148) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 CITY MANAGER.
      The City Manager shall attend all Council meetings.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the City Manager, see G.S. § 160A-148
§ 10.20 CITY SEAL.
   (A)   The following described city seal is hereby adopted as the official
seal of the city. The top half of the city seal shall read "CITY OF ASHEBORO,
NORTH CAROLINA" and the outer border of the bottom half of the city seal shall
read "DECEMBER 25, 1796." Inside the outer border, at the top of the city seal,
shall read "CENTER OF THE STATE", and the balance of the interior of the city
seal shall depict Asheboro as nestled in the Uwharrie Mountains, the background
showing Back Creek, Sheppard, Caraway and Dave's Mountain. This seal shall also
show the historic plank road that linked Fayetteville and Old Salem, leading to
the present and the future growth and progress through Asheboro's development
of its many varied industries, fine schools, churches and homes.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal.
('69 Code, § 1-8) (Ord. passed 9-7-67)
§ 10.21 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF THE CITY.
   All of the powers for the planning and regulation of development authorized
by Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina shall be exercised by
the city within the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction area shown on the
map (a total of seven
sheets) dated September 12, 2012, prepared under City of Asheboro Engineering
Department Job No. 12030, and entitled "City of Asheboro 2012 Revised Extra-
Territorial Planning Jurisdiction Area."
('69 Code, § 1-10) (Ord., passed 6-8-72; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12;
Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Where no specific penalty is otherwise provided, any act constituting
a violation of the provisions within this code of ordinances or a failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty of $100 for each day the violation continues. If the offender fails to
pay this penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation, the penalty
may be recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) above, any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the city may be enforced by any one or more of
the remedies authorized by G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
         
31.   CITY COUNCIL
         
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
         
33.   ELECTIONS
         
34.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
35.   ROTATION WRECKER SERVICE LIST
         
36.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
         
37.   CITY POLICY
         
38.   AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Office hours
   
30.02   Officers and employees bonded
   
30.03   Conflict of interest
   
30.04   Automobile liability insurance
   
30.05   Use of public works equipment and personnel
   
30.06   Ordinances; official copies
   
30.07   Disposal of surplus personal property
§ 30.01 OFFICE HOURS.
   On days other than Saturdays, Sundays and official city holidays, the city
offices shall be open from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.; provided, that the City
Manager may, in his discretion, make exceptions for various offices as the
exigencies of any situation may require.
('69 Code, § 2-1) (Ord. passed 9-6-51)
Cross-reference:
   Official city holidays, see
Ch. 35
§ 30.02 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES BONDED.
   (A)   The City Council shall adopt a system of blanket faithful performance
or honesty bonding of all officers, agents and employees of the city who
control more than $100 of the city's funds or inventories, except the Finance
Officer and City Tax Collector. Such blanket bond coverage shall be in the
amount of $10,000 for each officer, agent and employee so covered; greater
coverage may be required where deemed necessary.
   (B)   The Finance Office and City Tax Collector shall, before assuming their
respective duties, enter into bond with good sureties, payable to the city, and
conditioned upon the faithful performance of their respective duties and a true
accounting for all funds of the city which may, respectively, come into their
hands, custody or control. Each such bond shall be approved by the City Council
and the Mayor. Bonds of the Finance Office and the City Tax Collector shall be
in a minimum amount of $10,000 each; greater coverage may be required where
deemed necessary. Where the city subcontracts its tax billing and collection
functions to an outside party and such party carries a bond securing them with
respect to the city in a minimum amount of $10,000, then that coverage shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of this section. It is not necessary that
the city carry the bond on the City Tax Collector in this set of circumstances.
   (C)   The premium for all bonds mentioned in this section shall be paid by
the city.
('69 Code, § 2-2) (Ord. passed 2-9-50; Am. Ord, passed 4-7-60)
Statutory reference:
   For state law as to bonding of city personnel, see G.S. § 159-29
§ 30.03 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the city directly or
indirectly to become a contractor for work done for the city, or to become
directly personally interested in or receive profit from any purchase of
supplies for the city; and any such person so offending shall be guilty of an
offense and his office shall, upon conviction, be vacant.
('69 Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.04 AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The City Manager shall carry, in the name of the city, automobile liability
insurance for each city-owned or operated vehicle in the amount as determined
by the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-4) (Ord. passed 12-6-56)
§ 30.05 USE OF PUBLIC WORKS EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The use of city public works equipment and personnel shall be limited
to the construction and maintenance of city projects and facilities, except as
provided in this section.
   (B)   The City Manager may, in the exercise of sound discretion, make
exceptions to the policy enunciated in division (A) of this section as follows:
      (1)   Whenever an offer of free dirt usable by the city for fill or for
top soil is made, city trucks may haul the dirt either to storage or to a
project location requiring the dirt.
      (2)   In cases of rainwater from city streets draining onto private
property, city personnel may install storm drainage pipe, if the owner so
requests this work and pays for the pipe and other materials used.
      (3)   When property owners request lots to be mowed or cleared at their
cost.
      (4)   In such other special cases concerning private projects which
involve equipment not available to a private contractor.
   (5)   Use of dynamite in construction projects.
   (6)   Construction of driveway openings upon request, the property owner
paying for total cost.
   (7)   Installation of driveway culverts and paving of alley gutters on
streets that do not have curbs and gutters, the property owner paying for all
material.
('69 Code, § 2-5) (Ord. passed 10-10-63)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES; OFFICIAL COPIES.
   The City Clerk shall keep a bound copy of all ordinances, which shall be the
official copy.
('69 Code, § 2-14)
§ 30.07 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The City Manager, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-266(c), is hereby authorized
to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the city whenever he or
she determines in his or her discretion that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$30,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the city would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The City Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. Such sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the city if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the City Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the City Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or cause it to be
discarded as waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any
individual or organization except by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   The City Manager shall keep a record of all property disposed of under
the provisions of this section and that record shall generally describe the
property sold or exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom it was exchanged,
and the amount of money or other consideration received for each sale or
exchange.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-11-02; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 7-14, passed 7-10-14)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Election of Mayor Pro Tempore
   
31.02   Appointment of committees
   
31.03   Powers and duties of committees
   
31.04   Meetings
   
31.05   Rules of procedure
   
31.06   Adjournment for lack of quorum
   
31.07   Resignations
§ 31.01 ELECTION OF MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   Each odd-numbered year, at the organizational meeting after their election
and qualification, the City Council shall elect from among their members a
Mayor Pro Tempore.
('69 Code, § 2-6)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES.
   Subsequent to the initial establishment of a committee and the appointment
of members to serve on the committee, the Mayor shall appoint, during the
organizational meeting of the City Council following its election, the number
of Council members prescribed by this section or by the adopted resolution
creating the committee in those cases where the committee is not specifically
listed in this section. All committee appointments by the Mayor are subject to
the approval of the City Council. The committees for which appointments are to
be made are as follows:
   (A)   Finance and Public Safety Committee, which shall be chaired by the
Mayor and consists of three Council members;
   (B)   Public Works Committee, which shall be chaired by the Mayor Pro
Tempore and consists of two additional Council members;
   (C)   Personnel Evaluation Committee, which shall be chaired by the Mayor
and consists of two Council members;
   (D)   Tourism and Marketing Committee, which shall be chaired by the Mayor
and consists of two Council members;
   (E)   Identity Theft Prevention Program Committee, which shall be chaired by
the Mayor and consists of two Council members; and
   (F)   Such other committees as may be established by resolution of the City
Council.
(‘69 Code, § 2-7) (Am. Ord. 32 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10; Am. Ord. 33 ORD 12-19,
passed 12-5-19)
§ 31.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   Committees of the City Council shall have such powers and shall perform such
duties as may be prescribed by resolution of the City Council not inconsistent
with state law, the City Charter or this Code.
('69 Code, § 2-8)
§ 31.04 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a regular meeting on Thursday after the
first Monday of each month.
   (B)   Any regular or special meeting of the City Council and adjourned
meeting thereof, may adjourn to such time prior to the next regular meeting
date as may be fixed by the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-9)
§ 31.05 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except as may be provided otherwise by the City Charter or other state law,
Robert's Rules of Order, Revised Edition, shall govern the parliamentary
procedure of the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. passed 10-10-63)
§ 31.06 ADJOURNMENT FOR LACK OF QUORUM.
   If a quorum fail to attend any meeting of the City Council the meeting shall
stand adjourned until such time as agreed on by the members present.
('69 Code, § 2-12)
§ 31.07 RESIGNATIONS.
   The resignation of any member of the City Council shall be in writing and
shall not be acted on until the next regular meeting of the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-13)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Mayor; duties generally
   
32.02   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
32.03   City Manager
   
32.04   City Clerk
   
32.05   Finance Officer
   
32.06   Inspection officers
§ 32.01 MAYOR; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The Mayor shall be the official head of the city government and shall
preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor shall exercise such
powers and perform such duties as are or may be conferred upon him by the
General Statutes of North Carolina, the City Charter, this Code and other
ordinances and resolutions of the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-15)
§ 32.02 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   In case of the death, absence, resignation or permanent disability of the
Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall act as Mayor, and shall have all the rights
and powers and perform all the duties of the Mayor. In case of vacancy, he
shall receive the same salary allowed the Mayor, until the City Council calls
an election and a successor has been elected and qualified.
('69 Code, § 2-16)
§ 32.03 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have such powers and perform such duties as are
prescribed for him in the City Charter, this Code and other ordinances and
resolutions of the City Council.
   (B)   The City Manager shall establish such administrative departments,
offices and agencies as may be necessary for the orderly conduct of the city's
business and may assign city personnel thereto and designate their duties;
provided, that in doing so, he shall not abolish, reorganize or merge any
department, office or agency contrary to any provision of the City Charter,
other state law or this Code.
   (C)   The City Manager may make or require department, office or agency
heads to make and promulgate rules and regulations governing the city
departments, offices and agencies and the transaction of business therewith by
members of the public; provided, that no such rule or regulation shall be
contrary to any provision of the City Charter or other law or to any provision
of this Code or other ordinance or resolution of the City Council. Rules and
regulations so made and promulgated by the City Manager or by a department,
office or agency head and approved by the City Manager shall be binding on all
persons affected thereby. When any such rule or regulation has been submitted
by the City Manager to the City Council and by that body approved, such rule or
regulation, when maintained on file in the office of the City Clerk, shall then
have the force and effect of an ordinance and it shall be unlawful to violate
any provision thereof.
('69 Code, § 2-17)
   (D)   In the event the City Manager shall be absent or otherwise unable to
perform his duties, or in the event that the office of City Manager becomes
vacant, the City Council shall designate a qualified officer of the city to act
as City Manager until such time as the City Manager resumes his duties or the
office is filled by appointment, as the case may be.
('69 Code, § 2-18)
§ 32.04 CITY CLERK.
   The City Manager shall appoint the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the
City Clerk to:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all the proceedings of the
City Council and file them in a well-bound book.
   (C)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided by
the City Council for that purpose.
   (D)   Perform such other duties as may be required of him by this Code or
other ordinance or resolution, or by the City Manager.
('69 Code, § 2-19)
§ 32.05 FINANCE OFFICER.
   It shall be the duty of the Finance Officer to:
   (A)   Receive and deposit promptly in the city depositories all money which
he shall receive in behalf of the city.
   (B)   Keep an accurate account of all money which he shall receive in behalf
of the city.
   (C)   Give a receipt for all money received by him.
   (D)   Render a full and complete statement of his receipts and disbursements
to the City Manager at such times as the City Manager may require.
   (E)   Recognize and pay only such warrants as have been properly authorized
through budgetary appropriations.
   (F)   Do and perform such other acts as the City Manager or City Council may
require.
   (G)   Act as city accountant if designated by the City Manager to do so.
('69 Code, § 2-20)
§ 32.06 INSPECTION OFFICERS.
   The City Manager shall appoint such inspection, administration and
enforcement officers as may be necessary under the provisions of the Code
relating to such matters as buildings, electricity, fire protection, food,
health, plumbing, zoning and the like, and in doing so may designate
appropriate officers of the city to serve in such capacities in addition to
their other offices.
('69 Code, § 2-21)
CHAPTER 33: ELECTIONS
Section
   
33.01   Precincts and polling places
   
33.02   Notices to be given by Randolph County Board of Elections
§ 33.01 PRECINCTS AND POLLING PLACES.
   The city shall be divided into election precincts for all municipal
elections, and such election precincts and the polling places therein shall be
as provided by resolution of the City Council.
('69 Code, § 7-1) (Res. 157, passed 2-6-41)
§ 33.02 NOTICES TO BE GIVEN BY RANDOLPH COUNTY BOARD OF ELECTIONS.
   All notices required by the City Charter or state law to be given relating
to the creation of election precincts and of the polling places therein, and
the registration of the voters of the municipality, the appointment of
registrars and judges of election, nominations, dates of election, and all
other matters relating in any manner to election shall be given by the Randolph
County Board of Elections in accord with all applicable provisions of the City
Charter and state law.
('69 Code, § 7-2) (Res. 157, passed 2-6-41)
CHAPTER 34: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Community Appearance Commission
   
34.01   Created
   
34.02   Composition and membership
   
34.03   Powers and duties
   
34.04   Recommendations
   
34.05   Funding
Cultural and Recreation Services Division
   
34.15   Department and office of Director created
   
34.16   Cultural and Recreation Services Director
Fire Department
   
34.25   Fire Department constituted
   
34.26   Appointment and term of office of the Fire Chief
   
34.27   Command and control of Fire Department
   
34.28   Duties of the Fire Chief
   
34.29   (Reserved)
   
34.30   (Reserved)
   
34.31   (Reserved)
   
34.32   (Reserved)
   
34.33   (Reserved)
   
34.34   (Reserved)
   
34.35   (Reserved)
   
34.36   (Reserved)
   
34.37   (Reserved)
Planning Board
   
34.50   Definition
   
34.51   Creation; composition and membership
   
34.52   Appointment and term; vacancies; attendance; compensation
   
34.53   Organization and meetings
   
34.54   Powers and duties
   
34.55   Public facilities
   
34.56   Zoning
   
34.57   Review of subdivisions
   
34.58   Committees; expenditure of funds
   
34.59   Authority to receive and disburse contributions
   
34.60   Travel expenses
   
34.61   Cooperation by city officials; power to enter upon lands
   
34.62   Recommendation of comprehensive plan
   
34.63   Public hearings
   
34.64   Special studies
   
34.65   Annual reports and budget estimates
   
34.66   Advisory council
Police Department
   
34.75   Chief of Police as head of Police Department and commander of police
force
   
34.76   Duties of Chief of Police
   
34.77   Duties of police officers
   
34.78   Reserve Police Force
   
34.79   Police Department authority regarding criminal history information for
ABC permit applicants
   
34.80   Police Department authority regarding criminal history information of
final candidates for city employment
   
34.81   Police Department authority regarding criminal history information of
volunteer youth sports program coaches
COMMUNITY APPEARANCE COMMISSION
§ 34.01 CREATED.
   Pursuant to Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina, there is
hereby created a Community Appearance Commission of the city, to perform the
functions and duties herein prescribed.
(‘69 Code, § 2-50.1) (Ord., passed 6-8-72; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21)
§ 34.02 COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   The Community Appearance Commission shall consist of seven members appointed
by the City Council, which appointees shall be residents of the city or reside
within the area in which extraterritorial zoning is exercised by the city. The
members of the commission shall serve for terms of three years.
('69 Code, § 2-50.2) (Ord. passed 6-8-72; Am. Ord., passed 9-17-81; Am. Ord.,
passed 12-12-88)
§ 34.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Community Appearance Commission,
generally:
      (1)   To initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of programs
of general community beautification in the city and its environs.
      (2)   To seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies,
organizations and groups, public or private, whose plans, activities and
programs bear upon the appearance of the city and its environs.
      (3)   To provide leadership and guidance in matters of design and
appearance to individuals, organizations and groups, public or private, who
shall request such assistance.
      (4)   To make studies of the visual assets and liabilities of the
community, including surveys and inventories of an appropriate nature, and to
suggest standards and policies of design for the entire community, any
neighborhood thereof or any individual project to be undertaken therein.
      (5)   To prepare both general and specific plans for the improved
appearance of the city. Such plans may include the entire community or any part
thereof, and may include private as well as public property. Such plans shall
set forth desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the
city or any part thereof, including public ways and areas, open spaces, and
public and private buildings and projects.
      (6)   To participate in appropriate ways in the implementation of such
plans. To this end, the following specific powers are hereby conferred upon the
commission:
         (a)   To request from the proper officials of any public agency,
including the city, the county, the city school district, the city housing
authority, all public utilities and any state or federal agency, its plans for
public buildings, facilities or projects in the city and its environs.
         (b)   To review such plans and to make recommendations regarding their
aesthetic suitability to the appropriate agency or governing board and to the
City Council. The Appearance Commission shall review such plans in a prompt and
expeditious manner. All recommendations of the commission with regard to any
public project shall be in writing, and copies of such recommendations shall be
transmitted promptly to the City Council.
         (c)   To formulate and recommend to the Planning Board and City
Council, such ordinances and amendments to this Code or other existing
ordinances (including the zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations, and other
local ordinances regulating the use and development of property), as will, in
the opinion of the commission, serve to enhance the appearance of the city and
its environs.
         (d)   To direct city officials' attention to needed enforcement of
this Code or other ordinances which in any way may affect the appearance of the
city.
         (e)   To seek, through any appropriate means, voluntary adherence to
the standards and policies of its plans.
         (f)   To study and make recommendations to the City Council concerning
implementation of the powers conferred upon the commission by this division.
         (g)   To enter, in the performance of its official duties and with the
permission of the property owner, upon private lands and make examinations or
surveys.
         (h)   To promote public interest in, and an understanding of, its
recommendations, studies and plans, and to that end to prepare, publish and
distribute to the public such studies and reports as will, in its opinion,
advance the cause of improved community appearance.
         (i)   To conduct such public meetings and hearings as may in its
judgment be deemed necessary, giving reasonable notice to the public thereof.
         (j)   To conduct an annual meeting at which the programs, problems and
policies of the commission shall be presented, and at which the public at large
shall be invited to express itself on matters relating to the city's
appearance.
('69 Code, § 2-50.3) (Ord. passed 6-8-72)
   (B)   In addition to other powers and duties, the commission may:
      (1)   Receive, evaluate and make recommendations on public and private
building projects.
      (2)   Review the appearance of existing businesses in and out of the
Central Business District, and make recommendations for improvement.
      (3)   Make incentive awards to individuals and firms who make outstanding
contributions to improve community appearance.
      (4)   Review proposed streets and subdivisions.
      (5)   Sponsor a "clean-up, fix-up" week.
      (6)   Designate an "arbor week" project and sell trees and shrubs to
private individuals at cost.
      (7)   Continually review the provisions of this Code and other ordinances
in effect in the city bearing on beautification and appearance. Make
recommendations on needed revision of such Code or other ordinances.
      (8)   Undertake a continuing "anti-litter" campaign.
('69 Code, § 2-50.4) (Ord. passed 6-8-72)
§ 34.04 RECOMMENDATIONS.
   Within the limits of funds available to it, the Community Appearance
Commission shall recommend to the City Council or City Manager:
   (A)   Employment of a director and staff;
   (B)   Contract for special or technical service;
   (C)   Contract with the state, the federal government or the county for such
services as may be available from such agencies.
('69 Code, § 2-50.5) (Ord. passed 6-8-72)
§ 34.05 FUNDING.
   The Community Appearance Commission shall receive contributions from private
agencies, foundations, organizations, individuals, the state or federal
government, or any other source, in addition to any sums which may be
appropriated for its use by the City Council.
('69 Code, § 2-50.6) (Ord. passed 6-8-72)
CULTURAL AND RECREATION SERVICES DIVISION
§ 34.15 DEPARTMENT AND OFFICE OF DIRECTOR CREATED.
   Subject to the general control and supervision of the City Manager, there is
hereby created the Cultural and Recreation Services Division and the office of
Cultural and Recreation Services Director.
('69 Code, § 18-1) (Ord., passed 9-7-67; Am. Ord. 05 ORD 1- 10, passed 1-7-10)
§ 34.16 CULTURAL AND RECREATION SERVICES DIRECTOR.
   The Cultural and Recreation Services Director shall have general
supervision, direction and control over all Cultural and Recreation Services
Division personnel, programs, activities and facilities, specifically including
athletic fields, parks, open spaces, passive recreation areas, and other areas
such as greenways that are designated by the City Manager as subject to the
operational control of the Cultural and Recreation Services Division.
('69 Code, § 18-2) (Ord., passed 9-7-67; Am. Ord. 05 ORD 1- 10, passed 1-7-10)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.25 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONSTITUTED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department within the city government to
be known as the Asheboro Fire Department.
   (B)   The purpose of the Fire Department is to protect the lives and
property of the citizens of Asheboro from fires and other emergencies, through
fire suppression, fire prevention, public education and such other means as may
be needed.
(Am. Ord. 03 ORD 3-16, passed 3-10-16)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Prevention, see
Chapter 95
§ 34.26 APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF OFFICE OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, who may also be referred to as the
Asheboro Fire Chief, shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
City Manager.
(Am. Ord. 03 ORD 3-16, passed 3-10-16)
§ 34.27 COMMAND AND CONTROL OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Subject to the supervision of the City Manager, who is designated as the
city's chief administrator, the Chief of the Fire Department shall have command
and control of the Fire Department. The Chief of the Fire Department shall be
the commanding officer of the Fire Department.
(Am. Ord. 03 ORD 3-16, passed 3-10-16)
§ 34.28 DUTIES OF THE FIRE CHIEF.
   In addition to any duties otherwise prescribed for the Chief of the Fire
Department by the North Carolina General Statutes, it shall be the duty of the
Asheboro Fire Chief to preserve and care for the city's fire suppression
apparatus and infrastructure, to have charge of fighting and extinguishing
fires, to have charge of training the Fire Department and to make annual
reports to the City Council concerning these duties.
(Am. Ord. 03 ORD 3-16, passed 3-10-16)
§ 34.29 (RESERVED).
§ 34.30 (RESERVED).
§ 34.31  (RESERVED).
§ 34.32 (RESERVED).
§ 34.33 (RESERVED).
§ 34.34 (RESERVED).
§ 34.35 (RESERVED).
§ 34.36 (RESERVED).
§ 34.37 (RESERVED).
PLANNING BOARD
§ 34.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA. The city and its environs, including the extraterritorial area as is
shown on the map entitled "City of Asheboro 2012 Revised Extra-Territorial
Planning Jurisdiction Area" and recorded in the Office of the Randolph County
Register of Deeds in Plat Book 135, Pages 28-34.
('69 Code, § 18-7) (Ord., passed 6-29-72; Am. Ord. 01 ORD 1-13, passed 1-10-13)
§ 34.51 CREATION; COMPOSITION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina,
there is hereby created a Planning Board, which shall consist of seven members,
five of whom shall be residents of the city and two of whom shall be residents
of the extraterritorial area shown on the map entitled “City of Asheboro 2012
Revised Extra-Territorial Planning Jurisdiction Area” and recorded in the
Office of the Randolph County Register of Deeds in Plat Book 135, Pages 28-34.
   (B)   All members of the Planning Board shall have equal rights, privileges
and duties with the other members of the board to which they are appointed,
regardless of whether the matters at issue arise within the city or within the
extraterritorial area.
   (C)   The Planning Board may exercise the powers granted by this Code and
other ordinances and by Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina
within the city and within the extraterritorial area shown on the map entitled
“City of Asheboro 2012 Revised Extra-Territorial Planning Jurisdiction Area”
and recorded in the Office of the Randolph County Register of Deeds in Plat
Book 135, Pages 28-34.
(‘69 Code, § 2-35) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord., passed 6-29-72; Am. Ord. 01
ORD 1-13, passed 1-10-13; Am. Ord. 31 ORD 11-13, passed 11-7-13; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 34.52 APPOINTMENT AND TERM; VACANCIES; ATTENDANCE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Members of the Planning Board shall be appointed for a term of five
years and until their successors are appointed and qualify. The appointment of
Planning Board members shall be conducted as follows:
      (1)   One city resident shall be appointed by the City Council in January
of each year to a five-year term of office. This five-year term of office shall
be deemed to commence on the first day of February during the year in which the
appointment to the full term of office is made.
      (2)   One Planning Board member appointed by the Randolph County Board of
Commissioners to provide representation for the city’s extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction area shall serve a five-year term of office that expires
in 2018. This seat on the Planning Board shall initially be held by the
Planning Board member appointed by the Randolph County Board of Commissioners
to a five-year term of office in February 2013. Thereafter, the Randolph County
Board of Commissioners shall continue to make appointments to this office on a
schedule that will require the next appointment to a full term of office to
occur in January 2018, and every five years thereafter. The commencement date
for these five-year terms of office shall be deemed to be the first day of
February during the year in which the appointment to the full term of office is
made.
      (3)   The other member of the Planning Board to be appointed by the
Randolph County Board of Commissioners to provide representation for the city’s
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction area shall serve a five-year term of
office that will commence on February 1, 2014. The initial appointment to this
office is to occur in January 2014, and successive appointments shall occur
every five years thereafter.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Board who are residents of the city shall be
appointed by the City Council. Members of the Planning Board who are residents
of the extraterritorial area shown on the map entitled "City of Asheboro 2012
Revised Extra-Territorial Planning Jurisdiction Area" and recorded in the
Office of the Randolph County Register of Deeds in Plat Book 135, Pages 28-34
shall be appointed by the Randolph County Board of Commissioners; provided,
that in the event such Board of County Commissioners fails to make any
appointment provided for in this section within 90 days after the receipt of a
resolution from the City Council requesting that such appointment be made, the
City Council may thereupon make such appointment.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term.
   (D)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board. A
Planning Board member who is absent from three of any four consecutive regular
meetings is subject to removal from office by the governing board that
appointed the individual. When the removal of a Planning Board member for
noncompliance with attendance requirements is under consideration, notice of
the proposed action and an opportunity to be heard by the appointing authority
on the question of the proposed removal from office shall be provided to the
Board member facing the possibility of removal from office. Delivery of such
notice of the opportunity to be heard shall be deemed to be sufficient if
written notice of the opportunity is sent, at least 15 calendar days in advance
of the meeting during which removal is to be considered, via first class United
States mail to the most recent address provided to the city by the member
subject to removal.
   (E)   On and after February 1, 2023, each member of the Planning Board shall
receive a stipend of $150 for each month that the member actively serves on the
Planning Board. In order to be deemed to be actively serving on the Planning
Board during any specific month, a member of the Board must attend, at a
minimum, the regular Planning Board meeting scheduled for the month for which
the monthly stipend is to be paid. The actual disbursement of the monthly
stipends for Planning Board members shall be made according to a schedule to be
developed by the City of Asheboro Finance Department in accordance with the
Department’s normal business practices. Irrespective of the number of special
meetings that may be held during any specific month, the amount of the monthly
stipend for Planning Board members shall not exceed $150.
(‘69 Code, § 2-36) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord., passed 6-29-72; Am. Ord. 12
ORD 3-09, passed 3-5- 09; Am. Ord. 01 ORD 1-13, passed 1-10-13; Am. Ord. 31 ORD
11-13, passed 11-7-13; Am. Ord. 3 ORD 1-23, passed 1-5-23)
§ 34.53 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   Each year, within 30 days after the annual appointment of new members, the
Planning Board shall meet and elect a chairman and create and fill such offices
as it may determine. The term of the chairman and other officers shall be one
year, with eligibility for reelection. The Planning Board shall adopt rules for
transaction of its business and governing its resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, and such rules shall be a public record. The
Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of is meetings shall be
open to the public. A majority of the Planning Board’s membership shall
constitute a quorum. When determining whether or not a quorum is present,
vacant positions on the Board and Planning Board members who are disqualified
from voting because of a statutorily recognized conflict of interest shall not
be considered members of the Board for the limited purpose of calculating how
may Board members are needed for the requisite majority.
('69 Code, § 2-37) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord. 31 ORD 11-13, passed 11-7-13)
§ 34.54 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall have the powers and discharge the duties
provided by law for Planning Boards established under the provisions of Chapter
160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends and present
conditions appertaining to matters which trust must be considered in planning
the development of the area, and forces at work to cause changes in these
conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council ordinances promoting
orderly development along the lines indicated in the comprehensive plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments conform to the
principles and requirements of the comprehensive plan for the growth and
improvement of the area;
      (6)   To make any studies and plans necessary as part of an urban renewal
program within the area;
      (7)   To keep the City Council and the general public informed and
advised as to these matters;
      (8)   To perform any other duties which may lawfully be assigned to it.
   (C)   As background for its comprehensive plan and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of man-made
and natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and
present conditions with respect to population, property values, the economic
base of the community, land use, and such other information as is important or
likely to be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of
development to be expected in the area and its various parts.
(‘69 Code, § 2-38) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord., passed 6-29-72; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 34.55 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   Upon adoption by the City Council of a resolution requesting such a review,
the Planning Board may review with the City Manager and other city officials
and report as recommendations to the City Council upon the extent, location,
and design of all public structures and facilities, on the acquisition and
disposal of public properties, on the establishment of building lines, mapped
street lines, and proposals to change existing street lines. However, in the
absence of a recommendation that has been requested from the Planning Board,
the City Council may, if it deems wise, after the expiration of 30 days from
the date on which the question has been submitted in writing to the Planning
Board for review and recommendation, take final action.
('69 Code, § 2-39) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 3-10-05)
§ 34.56 ZONING.
   The Planning Board shall, in addition to its other powers and duties, have
the powers and perform the duties of a City Planning Board with respect to city
zoning, as provided in, Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina
and in
Chapter 154 of this Code.
(‘69 Code, § 2-40) (Ord., passed 1-7-60; Am. Ord., passed 6-29-72; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 34.57 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Planning Board shall from time to time review the current regulations
for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the City Council
its recommendations, if any, for the revision thereof. The Planning Board shall
also review and make recommendations to the City Council concerning all
proposed plats of land subdivision.
('69 Code, § 2-41) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.58 COMMITTEES; EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board is hereby authorized to appoint such committees and
employees, and to authorize such expenditures, as it may see fit, subject to
limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board by the City Council in the
annual budget.
   (B)   The Planning Board may set up special committees to assist it in the
study of specific questions and problems.
('69 Code, § 2-42) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.59 AUTHORITY TO RECEIVE AND DISBURSE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The Planning Board is hereby authorized to receive contributions from
private agencies, organizations and individuals, in addition to any sums which
may be appropriated for its use by the City Council. It may accept and disburse
such contributions for special purposes or projects, subject to any specified
conditions which it deems acceptable, whether or not such projects are included
in the approved budget.
('69 Code, § 2-43) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.60 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   Members or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the
Board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning institutes or
hearings upon pending planning legislation, and the Planning Board may, by
formal and affirmative vote, pay, within the Board's budget, the reasonable
traveling expenses incident to such attendance.
('69 Code, § 2-44) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.61 COOPERATION BY CITY OFFICIAL; POWER TO ENTER UPON LANDS.
   All city officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning Board such
available records or information as it may require in its work. The Planning
Board or its agents may, in the performance of the board's official duties,
enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys and maintain necessary
monuments thereon.
('69 Code, § 2-45) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.62 RECOMMENDATION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Comprehensive Plan mentioned in §
34.54, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive matter shall
be the basis for the city's program for the development of the area and it
shall show the Planning Board's recommendations to the City Council for the
development of the area, including among other things the general location,
character and extent of streets, bridges, boulevards, parkways, playgrounds,
squares, parks, aviation fields and other public ways, grounds, structures and
open spaces; the general location and extent of public utilities and terminals,
whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation,
transportation, communication, power and other purposes; and the removal,
relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use or
extension of any of the foregoing ways, buildings, grounds, open spaces,
property, utilities or terminals.
   (B)   The comprehensive plan and any ordinances or other measure to
effectuate it shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted, and harmonious development of the city
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals and the general welfare, as well as efficiency
and economy in the process of development; including, among other things,
adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other
dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, wide and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the
adequate provision of public utilities, services and other public requirements.
('69 Code, § 2-46) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.63 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be required
to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance
of the comprehensive plan. Before adopting any such plan or any amendment
thereto it shall hold at least one public hearing thereon.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in an
understanding of its recommendation, and to that end it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
('69 Code, § 2-47) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.64 SPECIAL STUDIES.
   The Planning Board may make, cause to be made or obtain special studies on
the location, condition and adequacy of specific facilities, which may include
but are not limited to studies of housing; commercial and industrial
facilities; parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities; public and private
utilities; and traffic, transportation and parking facilities.
('69 Code, § 2-48) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.65 ANNUAL REPORTS AND BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to the City
Council a written report of its activities, an analysis of the expenditures to
date for the current fiscal year, and, for review and approval, its requested
budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
('69 Code, § 2-49) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
§ 34.66 ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Planning Board may seek the establishment of an unofficial advisory
council and may cooperate with this council to the end that its investigations
and plans may receive fullest consideration, but the Planning Board shall not
delegate to such advisory council any of its official prerogatives.
('69 Code, § 2-50) (Ord. passed 1-7-60)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.75 CHIEF OF POLICE AS HEAD OF POLICE DEPARTMENT AND COMMANDER OF POLICE
FORCE.
   The Chief of Police, under the general supervision of the City Manager,
shall be the chief administrator of the Police Department and as such shall
exercise command and control over the police force.
§ 34.76 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be primarily responsible for the direction and
control of all personnel to assure the proper performance of duties in the
enforcement of all laws and ordinances and to ensure the preservation of
lawfulness and order within the police jurisdiction of the city. The duties of
the Chief of Police will include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   The direction and control of personnel to assure the proper
performance of duties and adherence to established rules, order, policies and
procedures.
   (B)   The maintenance and discipline without laxity or discrimination.
   (C)   The responsibility for prompt execution or provision for execution of
all duties prescribed by the City Manager.
   (D)   To provide for the promotion and stimulation of supervision on the
part of supervisory personnel.
   (E)   Responsible for the proper organization and assignment of duties to
assure the orderly performance of all police functions.
   (F)   To provide counsel with subordinate supervisors concerning the
performance of their duties, and suitable action in the case of laxity,
misconduct, incompetence, inefficiency, or neglect of duty which becomes known.
   (G)   Responsible for planning and dissemination of overall plans of action
developed for activities of the Police Department.
   (H)   Responsible for budget preparation and the management of all
department fiscal matters, and insurance that unnecessary waste and expense is
avoided.
§ 34.77 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   The duties of city police officers shall include but not be deemed exclusive
to the following:
   (A)   To detect, apprehend, arrest, and present in a court of law those
charged with violating any general statute or city ordinance.
   (B)   To maintain community peace and tranquility.
   (C)   To perform any and all pertinent duties relating to police officers'
functions.
§ 34.78 RESERVE POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Established. A reserve police force is hereby established, to be a
volunteer organization, composed of membership to be determined by the Chief of
Police, separate and distinct from the Police Department of this city, but to
be headed by the Chief of Police.
('69 Code, § 17-11) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
   (B)   Authority of Chief of Police. The Chief of Police of this city shall
have complete authority, control and command, subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, over the reserve police force. He may appoint as members thereof
any persons he may deem to be qualified, and he may reject any application for
membership. He may provide for the training of candidates for membership, and
for the further training of members.
('69 Code, § 17-12) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
   (C)   Appointment of members. No person shall be deemed a member of the
reserve police force until he has been registered as such in a roster to be
kept by the Chief of Police, and until he has taken his oath that he will
observe and obey the Constitution of the United States, the constitution of
this state, and the laws of this nation, this state and this city, and he will
carry out the duties of a member of the reserve police force of this city to
the best of his ability.
('69 Code, § 17-13) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
   (D)   Duties. The duties of the reserve police force, subject at all times
to the direction, supervision and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to
assist the regular members of the Police Department of this city in the
enforcement of law and the maintenance of peace and order. The Chief may by
order establish rules and regulations to govern the reserve police force, to
fix the specific duties of its members, and to provide for the maintenance of
discipline. He may change such orders from time to time, and he may command
members of the reserve force to obey the instructions of regular police
officers in carrying out their duties.
('69 Code, § 17-14) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
   (E)   Identification. An identification card and such other insignia or
evidence of identity as the Chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member,
who must carry the card and other identification at all times while on duty,
and he must surrender them upon the termination of his membership.
('69 Code, § 17-15) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
   (F)   Removal; resignation.
      (1)   The membership of any person may be terminated by the Chief of
Police at any time, and any member may resign from the reserve police force at
any time, but it shall be his duty to notify the Chief of his resignation.
('69 Code, § 17-16) (Ord. passed 3-7-74)
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the reserve police officer to
return in acceptable condition any and all equipment previously issued to them
by the Chief of Police. This equipment shall be returned at the time of
termination or resignation.
   (G)   Carrying firearms. No member of the reserve police force shall, except
while on duty, carry any firearm issued by the Chief of Police.
   (H)   Powers of members of the reserve police force. A member of the reserve
police force, as a peace officer, shall have to the same extent as a regular
member of the Police Department all of the powers invested in law enforcement
officers by statute or common law. A member of the reserve police force shall
to the same extent as a regular member of the Police Department also have the
power to serve all civil and criminal process that may be directed to him by
any officer of the General Court of Justice and may enforce the ordinances and
regulations of the city as the Council may direct.
   (I)   Benefits under the North Carolina Workers' Compensation Act. While
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the city
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police, members of the
reserve police force shall be entitled to benefits under the North Carolina
Workers' Compensation Act.
   (J)   Diminishing or expanding the force. The Chief of Police may by order
diminish or expand the membership of the reserve police force as exigency may
require, within the limit hereinbefore established.
('69 Code, § 17-21) (Ord. passed 3-7-74; Am. Ord. 24-02, passed 7-11-02)
§ 34.79 POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY REGARDING CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION FOR
ABC PERMIT APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The Asheboro Police Department is authorized to seek state access to
SBI/DCI Criminal History Record Information in order to obtain criminal history
information on all persons applying for ABC permits for establishments located
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Prior to acting on the basis of criminal history record information
obtained pursuant to the authorization found in division (A) above and
submitting an objection to the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission on behalf of the city with regard to an application for ABC permit
(s), the City Manager shall verify the existence of a record by obtaining
either a certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint card of the
individual to the Criminal Information and Identification Section of the North
Carolina State Bureau of Investigation for verification that the criminal
history record information belongs to the individual to which the City Manager
is objecting.
(Ord. 07 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09)
§ 34.80 POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY REGARDING CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION OF
FINAL CANDIDATES FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   When requested by the city's Human Resources Director, or his or her
designee in the Human Resources Department, the Asheboro Police Department is
authorized to seek access to the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation/
Division of Criminal Information Network (SBI/DCIN) Criminal History Record
Information in order to obtain a North Carolina state only background check on
all persons who have received conditional offers of full-time, part-time, or
seasonal employment with the City of Asheboro. The Asheboro Police Department's
access to criminal history information and the sharing of this information with
designated personnel in the Human Resources Department, and ultimately the City
Manager, shall be governed by the access agreement prescribed by the SBI/DCIN
and entered into by the city.
   (B)   When an inquiry of SBI/DCIN Criminal History Record Information
conducted in accordance with division (A) of this section indicates that an
individual has one or more pending criminal charges and/or has been convicted
of or accepted responsibility for one or more felonious or misdemeanor criminal
offenses, such information shall be forwarded to the Human Resources Director,
or his or her designee, for evaluation. When evaluating the impact of this
information on an individual's potential employment with the city, an
individualized review of the entirety of the available information shall be
undertaken before a final employment decision is made. At a minimum, this
review will take into account the type of crime(s) of which the individual has
been charged or was convicted/accepted responsibility, the frequency of
violations and/or any pattern of offenses, the time that has elapsed since the
date(s) of any conviction(s)/ disposition(s), the applicant's age at the time
of any conviction(s)/disposition(s), and the impact, if any, of the past
criminal conduct or pending charges of criminal conduct on the ability of the
applicant to perform the essential job functions of the position for which he
or she has applied in a manner consistent with the maintenance of the public
trust and confidence that is essential to the city's effective delivery of
municipal services.
   (C)   Prior to seeking final approval from the city manager to act on the
basis of criminal history record information obtained pursuant to the
authorization found in division (A) of this section, the Human Resources
Director, or his or her designee, shall verify the existence of a record by
obtaining either a certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint card
of the individual to the Criminal Information and Identification Section of the
SBI for verification that the criminal history record information belongs to
the individual that is subject to a pending personnel decision. In order to
facilitate the verification process, applicants for employment with the city
shall, upon request and as part of the mandated application process, provide
all of the identification information necessary to confirm that the criminal
history information does in fact pertain to the applicant. The requested
identification information may include, but is not limited to, the applicant's
full name, documents such as a birth certificate or driver's license, and/or a
completed applicant fingerprint card.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed or interpreted
in any manner that lessens or to any degree restricts the authority of the
Asheboro Police Department, independent of this section, to access SBI/DCIN
Criminal History Record Information as a criminal justice agency.
(Ord. 37 ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 34.81 POLICE DEPARTMENT AUTHORITY REGARDING CRIMINAL HISTORY INFORMATION OF
VOLUNTEER YOUTH SPORTS PROGRAM COACHES.
   (A)   When requested by the city's Cultural and Recreation Services
Director, or his or her designee in the Cultural and Recreation Services
Division, the Asheboro Police Department is authorized to seek access to the
North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation/Division of Criminal Information
Network (SBI/DCIN) Criminal History Record Information in order to obtain a
North Carolina state only background check on all persons who have applied to
work as volunteer coaches with children in the youth sports program
administered by the city's Cultural and Recreation Services Division. The
Asheboro Police Department's access to criminal history information and the
sharing of this information with designated personnel in the Cultural and
Recreation Services Division, and ultimately the City Manager, shall be
governed by the access agreement prescribed by the SBI/DCIN and entered into by
the city.
   (B)   When an inquiry of SBI/DCIN Criminal History Record Information
conducted in accordance with division (A) of this section indicates that an
individual seeking appointment as a volunteer youth sports program coach has
one or more pending criminal charges and/or has been convicted of or accepted
responsibility for one or more felonious or misdemeanor criminal offenses, such
information shall be forwarded to the Cultural and Recreation Services
Director, or his or her designee in the Cultural and Recreation Services
Division, for evaluation. When evaluating the impact of this information on an
individual's suitability to work with children as a volunteer coach, an
individualized review of the entirety of the available information shall be
undertaken before a final decision is made. At a minimum, this review will take
into account the type of crime(s) of which the individual has been charged or
was convicted/ accepted responsibility, the frequency of violations and/or any
pattern of offenses, the time that has elapsed since the date(s) of any
conviction(s)/disposition(s), the applicant's age at the time of any conviction
(s)/ disposition(s), and the impact, if any, of the potential volunteer coach's
past criminal conduct or pending charges of criminal conduct on the ability of
the city to offer a safe, high quality youth sports program in which the
broadest possible range of parents and guardians will have confidence.
   (C)   Prior to making a final decision, which may ultimately be appealed to
the City Manager, to prohibit an individual from serving as a volunteer coach
because of information found in the criminal history record information
obtained pursuant to division (A) of this section, the Cultural and Recreation
Services Director, or his or her designee, shall verify the existence of a
record by obtaining either a certified public record or by submitting a
fingerprint card of the individual to the Criminal Information and
Identification Section of the SBI for verification that the criminal history
record information belongs to the individual that is attempting to volunteer as
a youth sports program coach. In order to facilitate the verification process,
applicants seeking to volunteer as coaches in the youth sports program shall,
upon request and as a mandated part of the application process, provide all of
the identification information necessary to confirm that the criminal history
information does in fact pertain to the applicant. The requested identification
information may include, but is not limited to, the applicant's full name,
documents such as a birth certificate or driver's license, and/or a completed
applicant fingerprint card.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed or interpreted
in any manner that lessens or to any degree restricts the authority of the
Asheboro Police Department, independent of this section, to access SBI/DCIN
Criminal History Record Information as a criminal justice agency.
(Ord. 37 ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
CHAPTER 35: ROTATION WRECKER SERVICE LIST
Section
   
35.01   Rotation wrecker service list
   
35.02   Selection of wrecker services
   
35.03   Permit required
   
35.04   Application for rotation wrecker service list permit
   
35.05   Insurance requirements
   
35.06   Investigation by Chief of Police
   
35.07   Standards for issuance/renewal of rotation wrecker service list permit
   
35.08   Duties of wrecker services on rotation list
   
35.09   Exceptions
   
35.10   Grounds for revocation of permit
   
35.11   Procedure for revocation of permit
   
35.12   Supplemental policies
   
35.13   Indemnification and hold harmless
   
35.14   No guarantee of compensation
§ 35.01 ROTATION WRECKER SERVICE LIST.
   (A)   The chief of police is hereby authorized to establish a Rotation
Wrecker Service List, which shall be referred to as the "rotation list"
throughout this chapter. Wrecker services that wish to be placed upon the
rotation list shall comply with the requirements of this chapter and with all
other applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations.
   (B)   The number of wrecker services on the rotation list at any given time
shall not exceed a total of 12 wrecker services. In the event of the voluntary
or involuntary removal of one or more wrecker services from the rotation list,
the vacancy(ies) shall be filled by means of a random drawing conducted by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee from those wrecker services that have
submitted an application on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police requesting
inclusion on the rotation list and have been found to comply with the
requirements of this chapter. The selection process shall continue until any
and all vacancies on the rotation list are filled. The application materials
submitted by unsuccessful candidates shall remain active for one year from the
date upon which the Chief of Police or his or her designee makes a written
determination that the applicant is eligible for inclusion on the rotation
list.
After the expiration of this one-year period, an applicant will have to submit
a new application with supporting documentation in order to be considered for
inclusion on the rotation list.
   (C)   Subject to the restrictions and qualifications set forth in this
chapter, those wrecker services that are on the existing rotation list as of
the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to remain on the rotation
list until midnight on June 30, 2008. Effective at 12:01 a.m. on July 1, 2008,
all wrecker services on the rotation list must be in full compliance with this
chapter, including without limitation having in their possession a valid
Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.02 SELECTION OF WRECKER SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle, if present and not incapacitated, shall
have the right to select a wrecker service of his choice; provided, however,
the requested wrecker service must be located within a reasonable distance from
the site from which the towing services are to be performed. The police
personnel present at the scene shall determine the reasonableness of the
distance from the tow site, and their decision shall be final.
   (B)   If the operator of the vehicle to be towed is not present, is
incapacitated, or has no preference as to any specific wrecker service, the
police personnel shall request that the towing service be provided by the
wrecker service then first on the rotation list.
   (C)   When emergency circumstances prevail, the police officer may request
towing services from the wrecker service nearest to the scene of the accident
or emergency. A city police officer may also request towing services from any
company operating large cranes or other heavy recovery equipment if necessary
to remove traffic obstacles involving large trucks or heavy equipment. The
determination as to whether an emergency exists or specialized recovery
services are needed shall be in the sole discretion of the on-duty supervisor
for the police personnel at the scene. When a decision is made to request
towing and/or recovery services from a specific person or entity, the on-duty
supervisor shall forward written notice of such a decision and supporting
documentation to the chief of police via the police department's established
chain of command.
   (D)   When an owner of a vehicle requests the on-scene police officer to
cancel a dispatched call either before the wrecker service arrives or prior to
the physical initiation of tow services, the responding wrecker service shall
not have the canceled call counted as a rotation call and will be returned to
the wrecker service's position on the rotation list as if the canceled call had
never been relayed to the wrecker service.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Subject to §
35.01(C) and §
35.02 of this chapter, no wrecker service shall engage in the business of
towing vehicles at the request of city police personnel without first obtaining
a permit from the chief of police to be placed on the rotation list. A Rotation
Wrecker Service List Permit, which shall be referred to throughout this chapter
as a "permit," shall be valid for one calendar year, commencing at 12:01 a.m.
on January the 1st of each year and expiring at midnight on December the 31st
of each year. If a wrecker service on the rotation list is in compliance with
all applicable laws, is not under investigation for violation(s) of this
chapter, and wishes to remain on the rotation list for another calendar year,
the permit holder may apply for renewal of a valid permit between November the
1st and November the 30th of each year. Any such renewal applications will be
processed ahead of other applications, and a wrecker service seeking renewal of
a valid existing permit in a timely manner shall remain on the rotation list
for another calendar year so long as the applicant is in compliance with all
applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations. Any application submitted after
November the 30th or not otherwise eligible for consideration as a renewal
application shall be processed as a new application that is subject to the same
lottery method of selection for inclusion on the rotation list as any other new
applicant.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.04 APPLICATION FOR ROTATION WRECKER SERVICE LIST PERMIT.
   All applications submitted for the initial issuance or renewal of a permit
shall include a properly completed and notarized application form prescribed by
the Chief of Police or his or her designee. At a minimum, the applicant shall
provide the following information to the city police department by means of
completing the prescribed form and attaching additional supporting
documentation:
   (A)   The wrecker service's name, the type of business association used by
the wrecker service to conduct its operations, the mailing address for the
wrecker service, the street address for the wrecker service's business office,
the street address for the storage facility utilized by the wrecker service for
storing towed vehicles, the street address for the base location from which the
wrecker service's vehicle(s) will operate, and telephone numbers for contacting
the wrecker service's on-duty operators at all times of the day as well as
telephone number(s) for the wrecker service's office and storage facility.
   (B)   A description of the size and capacity of all tow trucks used by the
wrecker service along with a certification that, at all times, the wrecker
service's equipment will be kept in good condition and capable of performing
towing services in accordance with industry standards.
   (C)   A description of the storage facility for towed vehicles. The storage
facility must be illuminated at night and shall have a building and/or wall or
fence enclosure of sufficient height and design to reasonably secure towed
vehicles from unauthorized access or removal. Any wall/fence used to secure a
storage facility shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
   (D)   A certificate of insurance evidencing compliance with the insurance
requirements prescribed by §
35.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   A copy of the most current registration card issued by the North
Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles for each wrecker service vehicle used by
the wrecker service operator. Each wrecker service vehicle must be properly
registered under G.S. Chapter 20, and the vehicle registration information for
each wrecker service vehicle must correspond with the identifying information
required from each applicant for a permit under division (A) of this section.
   (F)   A copy of a valid zoning compliance letter/certification issued by the
City of Asheboro Planning Department within three calendar months preceding the
date of application for a Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit. Such a letter/
certification must document full compliance by the applicant's vehicle towing
operation and storage yard with the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance as of the date of
the issuance of the zoning compliance letter/certification. No fees shall be
charged by the City of Asheboro Planning Department for zoning compliance
letters/certifications requested by an applicant for the sole purpose of
complying with this section.
   (G)   A certification, and additional supporting documentation if requested
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, that the applicant is a separate
business from any other wrecker service on the Asheboro Police Department’s
rotation wrecker service list. For the purpose of evaluating the sufficiency of
this certification, the scope of the certification must be inclusive of all
owners, officers, managers, operators, investors, general partners, limited
partners, and joint venturers in the wrecker service, and the certification
must expressly certify that the applicant does not share, use, combine, merge,
or mix the following items with another wrecker service on the rotation wrecker
service list and will not do so as long as the applicant is on the Asheboro
Police Department’s rotation wrecker service list:
      (1)   Building and office facilities and office equipment;
      (2)   Wreckers, dollies, or other tow equipment;
      (3)   Tow personnel and office staff or personnel;
      (4)   Vehicle storage facilities;
      (5)   Liability or owner insurance policies; and
      (6)   All other assets, accountings, invoices, income, and expenses.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-11, passed 6-9-11)
§ 35.05 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   As a condition for obtaining a permit and remaining on the rotation list,
and in addition to complying with the financial responsibility requirements
prescribed by G.S. § 20-309, permit holders must comply at all times with the
following liability insurance requirements:
   (A)   Garage liability insurance providing coverage for bodily injury or
property damage resulting from the use of a garage owner's vehicle must be in
full force and effect. This policy shall have coverage limits of no less than
$300,000 per occurrence and $900,000 aggregate.
   (B)   Applicants must obtain an endorsement to either their garage liability
insurance or commercial auto liability insurance for on-hook coverage that
covers damage to a vehicle while it's actually being towed.
   (C)   Garagekeeper's legal liability policy must be maintained in full force
and effect in order to provide coverage for damages to vehicles, which the
garage owner does not own, that are left in his or her care, custody, or
control and are damaged because the garage owner negligently failed to protect
the vehicle(s) from loss. This policy shall have coverage limits of no less
than $100,000 per claim.
   (D)   Each policy required under this section must contain an endorsement by
carriers providing ten days' notice to both the city and the insured in the
event of any change in coverage under the policy.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 24 ORD 04-08, passed 4-10-08)
§ 35.06 INVESTIGATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Within five business days after receipt of each application for the issuance
or renewal of a permit, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall cause
an investigation to be made of the applicant's towing operation and storage
yard. Such investigation shall be made for the purpose of verifying the
information in the application and to determine whether the applicant is in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. In order to promote continuing
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Chief of Police or his or
her designee may conduct unannounced investigations/ inspections of permit
holders' towing operations and storage yards throughout the course of the
calendar year. Any wrecker service operator that interferes with the above-
described investigations, including by way of illustration and without
limitation withholding the records specified by this chapter or denying access
to the towing operation and storage yard facilities, shall be suspended from
the police rotation list until the wrecker service complies with the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.07 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE/RENEWAL OF ROTATION WRECKER SERVICE LIST PERMIT.
   Before a permit can be initially issued or renewed, the Chief of Police or
his or her designee must verify that the applicant is in compliance with the
following standards:
   (A)   The applicant's business office, base from which wreckers will
operate, and storage facility for towed vehicles must be located within the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro.
   (B)   Financial responsibility/insurance coverage required by the North
Carolina General Statutes and this chapter must be in full force and effect.
   (C)   The applicant, including without limitation operators, owners,
investors, general partners, limited partners, and joint venturers in the
wrecker service seeking a permit, must have never been convicted of, pleaded no
contest to, or received a prayer for judgment for any felony, assault, theft,
or any other crime involving the taking, use, tampering with, or conversion of
a motor vehicle.
   (D)   The applicant must only use wrecker service vehicles that are equipped
with legally required lighting and other safety equipment to protect the
public, and this equipment must be in good working order.
   (E)   The applicant must provide on-call service 24 hours per day, seven
days per week.
   (F)   The applicant must have lawfully operating facilities, specifically
including without limitation a storage facility for towed vehicles that is
reasonably well illuminated at night for security purposes. The applicant's
storage facility shall have a building and/or wall or fence enclosure of
sufficient height and design to reasonably secure towed vehicles from
unauthorized access or removal. Any wall/fence used to secure the storage
facility shall be a minimum of six feet in height. By way of illustration and
without limitation, such a facility shall not be deemed to be lawfully
operating if the applicant is unable to produce a copy of a valid zoning
compliance letter/certification issued by the City of Asheboro Planning
Department within three calendar months preceding the date of the most recent
application for a Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit.
   (G)   The applicant must possess and properly maintain towing equipment that
is adequate to perform the required wrecker services in a reasonably
workmanlike manner that minimizes, to the degree possible and consistent with
industry standards, the chance of any damage to towed vehicles. Subject to G.S.
§ 20-101, all towing equipment shall display the name, address, and telephone
number of the wrecker service on the sides of the tow vehicle in letters no
less than three inches in height.
   (H)   The applicant must be in full compliance with the entirety of the
requirements prescribed by this chapter and all other applicable laws,
ordinances, and regulations at the time of application.
   (I)   An applicant’s facilities and equipment, specifically including
without limitation vehicles, offices, telephone lines, office equipment, and
storage facilities, may not be shared with another wrecker service that holds a
Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit. If a credible allegation comes to the
attention of the Chief of Police or his or her designee that an applicant is
owned, in whole or in part, by an individual or an entity that has an ownership
interest in a separate wrecker service on the rotation wrecker service list,
the applicant shall have the burden of proving to the satisfaction of the Chief
of Police or his or her designee that the applicant’s wrecker service is
separately insured and is a separate legal entity for all purposes,
specifically including without limitation federal, state, and local tax
purposes, from any other wrecker service on the rotation wrecker service list.
By way of illustration and not limitation, a credible allegation that would
place the above-described burden of proof on an applicant would include
situations where a husband and wife or other family members are each engaged in
the business of towing vehicles and wish to list their respective businesses
separately on the rotation wrecker service list.
   (J)   No applicant who has previously had a Rotation Wrecker Service List
Permit revoked under the provisions of this chapter may be issued a new permit
until a minimum of 90 calendar days have passed since the date of the
revocation.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-11, passed 6-9-11)
§ 35.08 DUTIES OF WRECKER SERVICES ON ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   No wrecker service shall arrive at the scene of a police investigation
as a result of monitoring or intercepting police calls by radio, or other
device, for the purposes of soliciting towing or repair services.
   (B)   The wrecker service shall arrive at the location of the vehicle to be
towed within a reasonable time after receiving a request from police personnel
for towing services. If the wrecker service dispatched from the rotation list
does not answer the call or respond within a reasonable time, the next wrecker
service on the rotation list will be called, and the non-responsive wrecker
service will not receive another request for towing services until the
communications center has cycled through the list as if the wrecker service had
answered the call for service in a timely manner. When determining the
reasonableness of a wrecker service's response time, the on-duty supervisor for
the police personnel on the scene shall take into account the weather
conditions, traffic conditions, and the past performance of wrecker services on
the rotation list under similar circumstances.
   (C)   Any wrecker service operating under this chapter must have the
following records of any motor vehicle towed as a consequence of the wrecker
service's inclusion on the rotation list: The make and model of the towed
vehicle, the vehicle identification number for the towed vehicle, the license
plate number of the towed vehicle when such a plate is on the vehicle, and the
date when the towing service was provided. These records shall be maintained
for a period of two years from the date of towing by the tow service and shall
be made available for inspection and review at any time by the Chief of Police
or his or her designee.
   (D)   All vehicles towed as a result of a request for a rotation wrecker
shall be stored in the storage facility identified in the wrecker service's
most recent application for inclusion on the rotation list. The wrecker service
shall, at a minimum, allow vehicles to be retrieved from this storage facility
every calendar day of the week between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.,
excluding city recognized holidays.
   (E)   At its storage facility for towed vehicles, the wrecker service shall
post a notice, which shall be printed with lettering and numbers that are not
less than three inches in height, setting forth the manner in which to redeem
any towed vehicle. This notice shall be placed so as to be clearly visible to
individuals approaching the business in order to redeem a towed vehicle or
retrieve items from a vehicle. Additionally, this notice shall contain contact
information for a wrecker service employee that shall be available by telephone
at all times and can respond to emergencies requiring access to a stored
vehicle.
   (F)   The person operating a wrecker service on the rotation list shall make
every reasonable effort to minimize damage to towed and stored motor vehicles.
Where applicable, such reasonable effort shall include, but is not limited to,
the use of a dolly or carriage for towing, the disconnection of the drive
shaft, release of brakes, towing at a reasonable speed, and the securing of the
motor vehicle from damage by the elements.
   (G)   No towed vehicle may be dismantled, have parts removed, or tires
deflated, except as necessary for towing the motor vehicle or securing it from
damage by the elements.
   (H)   In the event of a motor vehicle accident, the rotation wrecker service
dispatched to the scene shall remove all wreck debris, other than hazardous
materials, from the road and/or right-of-way and properly dispose of it.
Hazardous materials consist of those materials, and amounts of materials, that
are required by law to be handled by Hazardous Materials Teams.
   (I)   All wrecker service vehicle operators shall have a valid driver's
license for the type of vehicle driven. A limited driving privilege shall not
be allowed.
   (J)   A wrecker service vehicle operator or employee shall not arrive at the
site of an incident with the odor of alcohol on his/her breath or while under
the influence of alcohol, drugs, or any impairing substance.
   (K)   Wrecker service owners, operators, and employees shall not be abusive,
disrespectful, or use profane language when dealing with the public or public
safety personnel.
   (L)   Wrecker service vehicle operators and employees responding to a
request for service shall use their best efforts to secure, to the extent
possible, personal property found at the scene or in a vehicle that is about to
be towed.
   (M)   The wrecker service is responsible for the collection of all fees and
costs incurred in the course of providing towing services.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision found in this chapter, the enactment and
enforcement of the ordinance provisions found in Chapter 35 (Rotation Wrecker
Service List) of the Code of Asheboro shall not be deemed or construed to
limit, impair, or impact in any manner the following activities and operations:
   (A)   The operations and activities of wrecker services not applying for or
in possession of a Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit.
   (B)   The utilization by the City of Asheboro of city forces and equipment
to recover and/or transport vehicles and equipment, regardless of whether such
vehicles and equipment are owned by the municipality.
   (C)   The provision of information and/or informational materials,
specifically including without limitation roadside assistance brochures and
business directories, to motorists requesting assistance.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7- 08; Am. Ord. 32 ORD 10-11, passed 10-6-11)
§ 35.10 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The following actions shall be grounds for revocation of a Rotation Wrecker
Service List Permit issued under this chapter:
   (A)   The permit was secured by fraud or by the concealment of a material
fact by the permit holder and such fact, if known, would have caused a refusal
to issue a permit.
   (B)   The permit holder, specifically including without limitation the
permit holder's owner(s), operator(s), and employees, has violated any of the
regulations established by this chapter.
   (C)   Past services rendered by a permit holder are shown to have been
performed in a manner that is detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   (D)   The permit holder failed to meet all requirements in the annual
renewal inspection conducted by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   (E)   The permit holder failed to respond to three consecutive rotation
calls.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.11 PROCEDURE FOR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police determines that any of the above-listed grounds
for revocation of a permit exist, the Chief of Police shall have the authority
to revoke a Rotation Wrecker Service List Permit for the remainder of the
calendar year for which the permit was originally issued. The wrecker service
will then have to file an application for a new permit and be processed as a
new applicant subject to the lottery system established in §
35.01.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police revokes a permit, the revocation may be
appealed by the permittee to the City Manager. Any appeal must be in writing,
stating the reasons for the appeal, and must be submitted to the city manager
within five business days of the date of the decision by the Chief of Police to
revoke the permit. The City Manager is the final decision authority. The City
Manager may sustain, mitigate, or overturn the decision by the Chief of Police
after reviewing the matters presented by the police department and the wrecker
service. Pending any appeal and the final decision, the permit holder will not
be eligible to receive any requests for towing services from the rotation list.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.12 SUPPLEMENTAL POLICIES.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to formulate supplemental policies that
will ensure effective enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.13 INDEMNIFICATION AND HOLD HARMLESS.
   By applying for and accepting a permit issued pursuant to this chapter, any
and all permit holders agree to forever hold harmless and to fully indemnify
the city and its personnel, agents, officials, and City Council, in both their
official and individual capacities, from any and all judgments, liens, claims,
assessments, demands, attorney fees, actions, and causes of action of any sort
arising out of any damage or injury sustained by any person or entity by reason
of any negligent or willful act or omission of the permit holder or its
officers, employees, agents, or contractors in connection with the permit
holders rendering of services as the holder of a Rotation Wrecker Service List
Permit.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
§ 35.14 NO GUARANTEE OF COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Neither the placement of a wrecker service on the rotation list nor
the act of calling a wrecker service on the rotation list to tow a vehicle
creates a contract with or an obligation on the part of the City of Asheboro or
its personnel to pay any fee or towing charge, except when the towed vehicle is
a city-owned vehicle, the towed vehicle is later forfeited to the city, or a
court determines that Asheboro police officers wrongfully authorized the tow
and orders the City of Asheboro to pay towing and storage fees for the vehicle.
   (B)   The placement of a wrecker service on the rotation list does not
guarantee a particular number or quantity of calls or an equivalent number of
calls to every wrecker service on the rotation list. Furthermore, the placement
of a wrecker service on the rotation list does not entitle any wrecker service
to any compensation as a consequence of a failure to call the wrecker service
in accordance with the list or as a consequence of the removal of the wrecker
service from the rotation list.
(Ord. 09 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
Taxation
   
36.01   Ad valorem taxes
   
36.02   Tax due date; discounts and penalties
   
36.03   Non payment of ad valorem taxes
Fiscal Provisions
   
36.15   Official city depositories designated
   
36.16   Security required for city deposits
   
36.17   Daily deposits of collections and receipts
   
36.18   Signature on checks drawn on city funds
   
36.19   Investment of idle funds
   
36.20   Bond ordinances; duties of Finance Officer
Contracts and Purchasing
   
36.30   When competitive bidding required; procedure to obtain bids
   
36.31   Purchasing agent; rules for purchases
   
36.32   Purchase orders required
TAXATION
§ 36.01 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   The City Council shall annually levy and cause to be collected, for the
purpose of raising revenue for defraying the expenses incident to the proper
government of the city and for other purposes authorized by law, an ad valorem
tax on all taxable property in the city at a rate not exceeding that which is
specified in the G.S. § 160A-209(d).
('69 Code, § 21-1)
§ 36.02 TAX DUE DATE; DISCOUNTS AND PENALTIES.
   All annual taxes assessed or levied by the City Council shall be due and
payable on the first day of September of the year in which they are assessed or
levied, subject to the discounts, interest and penalties provided in G.S. §§
105-349 through 105-378.
('69 Code, § 21-3) (Ord. passed 6-7-79)
§ 36.03 NON PAYMENT OF AD VALOREM TAXES.
   In handling non payment or delinquent payment of property-assessed and
levied ad valorem taxes, the city shall follow the procedures outlined in the
North Carolina Machinery Act.
FISCAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.15 OFFICIAL CITY DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 159-31(a), the following institutions are designated
depositories for public funds of the city:
   (A)   Bank OZK, Asheboro, North Carolina.
   (B)   BB&T/Sun Trust, Asheboro, North Carolina.
   (C)   Capital Bank/First Tennessee Bank, Asheboro, North Carolina.
   (D)   First Bank, Asheboro, North Carolina.
   (E)   NC Capital Management Trust, Raleigh, North Carolina.
   (F)   Pinnacle Bank, Asheboro, North Carolina; and
   (G)   Wells Fargo, Asheboro, North Carolina.
(‘69 Code, § 21-7) (Ord., passed 3-4-65; Am. Ord., passed 1-10-74; Am. Ord.,
passed 1-11-79; Am. Ord., passed 2-20-86; Am. Ord., passed 5-24-89; Am. Ord.
07-94, passed 2-14-94; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 3-19, passed 3-7-19)
§ 36.16 SECURITY REQUIRED FOR CITY DEPOSITS.
   Security shall be provided for the protection of city funds, as required by
G.S. § 159-31(b), on all deposits made in an official city depository that
exceeds the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
('69 Code, § 21-8) (Ord. passed 3-4-65)
§ 36.17 DAILY DEPOSITS OF COLLECTIONS AND RECEIPTS.
   Funds collected or received by the city shall be deposited on a daily basis,
or within the limits as provided in the G.S. § 159-32.
('69 Code, § 21-9) (Ord. passed 3-4-65; Am. Ord., passed 10-9-69)
§ 36.18 SIGNATURE ON CHECKS DRAWN ON CITY FUNDS.
   (A)   All checks drawn on city funds shall be signed by the Mayor and the
Finance Officer; provided, that in the absence or disability of the Mayor, the
Mayor Pro Tempore shall sign such checks, and in the absence or disability of
the Finance Officer the City Manager shall sign such checks.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 159-28.1, facsimile signature machines, signature
stamps, or similar devices may be used in signing checks and drafts and in
signing the preaudit certificate on contracts or purchase orders. The Finance
Officer shall have custody of the necessary machines, stamps, plates, or other
devices, and the Finance Officer and the sureties on the Finance Officer's
official bond are liable for any illegal, improper, or unauthorized use of such
devices.
(‘69 Code, § 21-10) (Ord., passed 7-7-66; Am. Ord, passed 1- 10-74; Am. Ord. 06
ORD 3-19, passed 3-7-19)
§ 36.19 INVESTMENT OF IDLE FUNDS.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall have the authority to invest city funds in
excess of current operating needs, subject to the requirements of G.S. §§ 159-
30 and 159-31 and subject to any limitations or restrictions and directions
imposed by the City Council.
   (B)   Interest earned on investments shall be credited to the various funds
upon the basis of amounts thereof invested.
('69 Code, § 21-11) (Ord. passed 3-4-65)
§ 36.20 BOND ORDINANCES; DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER.
   Whenever a sworn statement of indebtedness is required to be filed by or on
behalf of the city under the provisions of G.S. § 159-55, the Finance Officer
is hereby designated as the officer to prepare and file with the City Clerk
such sworn statement of indebtedness and to determine the amount to be inserted
in any such statement as the estimated amount of any special assessments to be
levied on account of local improvements for which any part of the gross debt
set forth in such statement was or is to be incurred.
('69 Code, § 21-12) (Ord. passed 11-18-53; Am. Ord., passed 2-10-66)
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASING
§ 36.30 WHEN COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIRED; PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN BIDS.
   Applicable contracts and purchasing are governed by G.S. § 143-129 or 143-
131.
('69 Code, § 2-22)
§ 36.31 PURCHASING AGENT; RULES FOR PURCHASES.
   The City Manager shall be ex officio purchasing agent for the city and may,
in his discretion, designate a deputy under his direct control and supervision
to perform the normal functions of the office of purchasing agent. The City
Manager shall establish and maintain, by appropriate rules and regulations, an
efficient and economical system for the purchasing of and contracting for such
supplies, equipment and services as may from time to time be required by the
city; provided, that such rules and regulations shall be approved by the City
Council prior to promulgation and taking effect.
('69 Code, § 2-24)
§ 36.32 PURCHASE ORDERS REQUIRED.
   In order to comply with G.S. § 159-26(d), which require encumbrance
accounting systems in cities with a population over 10,000, each purchase shall
be evidenced by a purchase order. The purchase order shall be issued by the
Purchasing Agent or his delegate at the time the purchase negotiations are
complete. The purchase order may consist of any suitable format recommended by
the Purchasing Agent, so long as that format provides ample information to
allow proper encumbrance of anticipated expenditures against budgeted
appropriations. The Purchasing Agency is hereby granted the authority to
establish a reasonable de minimis amount under which no purchase orders are
required.
CHAPTER 37: CITY POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Accessibility of city programs, services and facilities for citizens
with disabilities
   
37.02   Reserved
   
37.03   Smoking in city vehicles prohibited
§ 37.01 ACCESSIBILITY OF CITY PROGRAMS, SERVICES AND FACILITIES FOR CITIZENS
WITH DISABILITIES.
   The city will endeavor to make its programs, services, and facilities
accessible to all citizens, specifically including citizens with disabilities.
The city will actively seek to eliminate physical, policy and procedural
barriers that prevent citizens with disabilities from availing themselves of
city programs.
   (A)   All divisions/departments.
      (1)   Each division/department head shall assure that any program or
service rendered by his or her division/department is fully accessible to
citizens with disabilities.
      (2)   Each division/department head shall assure that programs and
services rendered to citizens with disabilities are integrated with and equally
effective as those rendered to citizens without disabilities. Separate services
shall be provided only when essential to assure equal effectiveness.
      (3)   When entering into third party contractual agreements for rendering
services to citizens, each division/department head shall ensure that such
contracts shall include a binding clause of nondiscrimination against
individuals with disabilities.
      (4)   When issuing information concerning division/departmental programs
and services, each division/department head shall assure that:
         (a)   Notification is rendered in a manner designed to reach persons
with disabilities, specifically including without limitation those who are
visually or auditorially impaired;
         (b)   Such notices shall include the hours of operation and the
location of accessible facilities to assure that persons with disabilities may
avail themselves of the programs;
         (c)   Such notices shall incorporate a statement of nondiscrimination
which reads: “City of Asheboro renders impartial treatment to all employees and
citizens without regard to race, sex, national origin, color, creed, or
disability.”
      (5)   In situations where facilities do not permit ready access of
citizens with disabilities to programs and services, the division/department
head will make such programs and services available at alternate accessible
sites or through other means.
      (6)    Division/department heads are required to provide upon request
auxiliary aids essential to enable individuals with disabilities to avail
themselves of city programs and services (e.g. reader services for the visually
impaired, interpreter services for the hearing impaired).
   (B)   Buildings.
      (1)   The city will design and, where feasible, implement alterations in
existing buildings which permit easy access for individuals with disabilities.
      (2)   The city will assure that all new construction to house city
programs and services meets established standards of accessibility.
      (3)   The city will install appropriate signs and markers to designate
ramps, entrances, and other facilities that are accessible to individuals with
disabilities, and the city will reserve parking for individuals with
disabilities.
   (C)   Grievance procedures. The city establishes a grievance process for
citizens who feel they have been denied access to city programs, services, and
facilities. Citizens seeking redress of alleged discrimination should present
their concerns to the division/department head, or designated representative,
of the division/department in which the concern arose. If the matter cannot be
resolved at the div ision/department head level, citizens may appeal to the
City Manager, who may appoint a hearing officer to review the complaint.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, this grievance procedure
does not apply to city employees or applicants for employment with the city.
(‘69 Code, § 2-71) (Ord., passed 10-4-84; Am. Ord. 25 ORD 11-15, passed 11-5-
15)
§ 37.02 RESERVED.
§ 37.03 SMOKING IN CITY VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited inside city vehicles. The individual or the
individual’s designee in charge of assigning the vehicle shall place in
conspicuous areas of the vehicle one or more signs stating that smoking is
prohibited. Any such signage shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
section if the sign displays the international “No Smoking” symbol, which
consists of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red
circle with a red bar across it. If a city vehicle is used for undercover law
enforcement operations, a sign is not required to be placed in the vehicle as
otherwise mandated by this division.
   (B)   The following definitions apply in this section:
      (1)   CITY VEHICLE. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or
otherwise controlled by the city and assigned permanently or temporarily by the
city to city employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities for official city
business.
      (2)   SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted
cigar, lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, the prohibition of
smoking in city vehicles is not applicable to either law enforcement officers
functioning in an undercover capacity or any non-employee occupants of city
vehicles utilized for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 05 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09)
CHAPTER 38: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
38.01   Adoption by reference
   
38.02   Enforcement
 
   
38.99    Penalty
§ 38.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations adopted by the Asheboro Airport Authority on April
16, 1991, and as amended, and entitled “Asheboro Regional Airport Rules and
Regulations” are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as part of this
code as fully as if set out at length herein. Copies of the “Asheboro Regional
Airport Rules and Regulations” are on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-4-93; Am. Ord., passed 9-10-98; Am. Ord. 11-99, passed 11-
4-99; Am. Ord. 31 ORD 05-08, passed 5-8-08)
§ 38.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A) The provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by an appropriate
equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B) Where this chapter makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made
of real property the same may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement
in the General Court of Justice, pursuant to Chapter 160A-175 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-4-93; Am. Ord., passed 9-10-98; Am. Ord. 11-99, passed 11-
4-99)
§ 38.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate a provision of this chapter such person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for
not more than 30 days as authorized by General Statute 14-4.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 3-4-93)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   WATER AND SEWERS
         
51.   GARBAGE
         
52.   SEWER USE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Water and Sewer Provisions
   
50.001   Water and Sewer Department; Water Resources Director
   
50.002   Right to enter premises of customers
   
50.003   Permit required to connect to water or sewer system; application
   
50.004   Water and sewer connection fees
   
50.005   Billing periods
   
50.006   Paying service charges
   
50.007   Discontinuance of service for delinquent accounts; restoration fee
   
50.008   Connections outside city limits
   
50.009   Release of billing information
   
50.010   Delegation of authority to the City Manager
General Water Service Provisions
   
50.015   Nonliability of city
   
50.016   Deposit required for water service
   
50.017   Discontinuance of service for violation of water regulations
   
50.018   Fraudulent use or unnecessary waste
   
50.019   Turning on water when shut off by city prohibited
   
50.020   Persons not entitled to service
   
50.021   Adjustment policy
   
50.022   Temporary discontinuance of service at customer's request
   
50.023   Meter by-pass regulated
   
50.024   Use of fire hydrants
   
50.025   Yard fixtures to be closed when not in use
   
50.026   Trespass upon premises used in providing city water
   
50.027   Emergency water management procedures
Connections and Fixtures
   
50.037   Connection to city water supply required; exceptions
   
50.038   Conditions under which property owners may lay pipe lines in streets
   
50.039   Tapping to service connection; installation of meter
   
50.040   Responsibility for cost of connections
   
50.041   Connection specifications
   
50.042   Stop and waste cock installation
   
50.043   Connection maintenance
   
50.044   Water meters; testing and fees
   
50.045   Disconnection fees
   
50.046   Cross-connection control and backflow prevention
Service Beyond City Limits
   
50.055   Customers subject to city regulations
   
50.056   Permit required; application for service connections
   
50.057   Extensions to the city water system
   
50.058   Water meters
   
50.059   Sprinkler systems regulated
Water Rates 
   
50.065   Rates within city
   
50.066   Rates for customers outside city
General Sewer Provisions
   
50.075   Definitions
   
50.076   Tampering with system
   
50.077   Injurious substances prohibited
   
50.078   Specific materials prohibited in sanitary sewers
   
50.079   Deposits prohibited in manholes
   
50.080   Sewers to be maintained in good repair
Sewer Connections
   
50.090   Permit required
   
50.091   Connections to be made by Water and Sewer Department
   
50.092   Connection costs
   
50.093   Application for permit prerequisite to construction
   
50.094   Issuance of permit; conditions and duration
   
50.095   Connection within specified time required; toilet facilities
   
50.096   Septic tanks in lieu of sewer connections
   
50.097   Toilet facilities to be connected to public sewers
   
50.098   New improvements to be connected
   
50.099   Notice to property owners of system extensions
   
50.100   Refusal to make required connection
   
50.101   Unauthorized privies constitute nuisances
   
50.102   Prohibited connections
   
50.103   Extensions of the sewer system
   
50.104   Low pressure sewer systems
Sewer Service Charges
   
50.110   Sewer rates
   
50.111   Industrial and commercial properties not discharging all water into
city sewers
   
50.112   Properties other than industrial or commercial not discharging water
into city sewers
   
50.113   Billing and collection
   
50.114   Meters and measuring devices
   
50.115   Properties not receiving water from any city source
   
50.116   Special discharge rates
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT; WATER RESOURCES DIRECTOR.
   Subject to the general control and orders of the City Manager, the Water
Resources Director shall be head of the Water and Sewer Department, and shall
have general control and administrative authority over the personnel and
property of the department and the city water and sewer systems, and be
responsible for the efficient and economical employment thereof for their
intended purposes and uses.
('69 Code, § 23-1) (Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-
09, passed 9-10-09)
§ 50.002 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES OF CUSTOMERS.
   Personnel of the Water and Sewer Department who are authorized by the City
Manager so to do may enter the premises of any water consumer, at any
reasonable time and upon compliance with any applicable provision of law, in
order to examine the pipes and fixtures, the quantity of water used and the
manner of its use; and in case of fraudulent use of water on the part of the
consumer, or the unnecessary waste thereof, the supply of water may be cut off
from the premises by order of the Water and Sewer Department.
('69 Code, § 23-2)
§ 50.003 PERMIT REQUIRED TO CONNECT TO WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM; APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause a connection to be made
to any city water main or city sewer of any type without a permit to do so
issued by the Water and Sewer Department. Each application for a permit for any
such connection shall be made by the owner of the premises to be served by such
connection, or his duly authorized agent, to the Water and Sewer Department
upon blanks furnished by the department, and upon the payment of the required
tapping fees. A written permit shall be issued for the connection.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-3) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Water service connection fee for service to property inside the city
limits. The following fees shall be charged for connection to a city water main
for property inside the city limits:
 
            Complete service to              New meter and   New meter only
Size        right-of-way        New tap only setter with box installed in
                                             only            existing service
5/8" x 3/ 4 $2,500              $1,250       $1,250          $350
1"          $3,000              $1,500       $1,500          $500
1 ½”     $6,500              $3,250       $3,250          $2,000
2"          $7,000              $3,500       $3,500          $2,250
 
   (B)   Water service connection fee for service to property outside city
limits. The following fees shall be charged for connection to a city water main
for property outside the city limits:
 
            Complete service to              New meter and   New meter only
Size        right-of-way        New tap only setter with box installed in
                                             only            existing service
5/8" x 3/ 4 $3,750              $1,875       $2,875          $525
1"          $4,500              $2,250       $2,250          $750
1 ½”     $9,750              $4,875       $4,875          $3,000
2"          $10,500             $5,250       $5,250          $3,375
 
   (C)   Sewer service connection fee for service to property inside city
limits.
      (1)   Subject to division (C)(2) below, the following fees shall be
charged for connection to the city sewer system for property inside the city
limits:
Size         Complete service to right-of-way
4"               $ 1,500
6"               $ 2,000
      (2)   As an incentive for early connection to the sanitary sewer system,
the above-stated sewer service connection fees shall be discounted on the basis
of how quickly owners of property required to connect to the sanitary sewer
system pursuant to § 50.095 do in fact make the required connections. The
baseline for determining the amount of the discount for which a property owner
is eligible shall be referred to as the notification date, and this
notification date is the date on which the notice required by §
50.099 is deposited by the city with the United States Postal Service for
delivery as first class mail. If a sewer service connection is made within two
and one-half years of the notification date, the sewer service connection fee
shall be waived. If a connection is made after two and one-half years, but
before five years have lapsed, the sewer service connection fee shall be
discounted by 75%. If a connection is made after five years, but before seven
and one-half years have lapsed, the sewer service connection fee shall be
discounted by 50%. If a connection is made after seven and one-half years, but
before ten years have lapsed, the sewer service connection fee shall be
discounted by 25%. No discount shall be available once ten years have lapsed
since the notification date. This incentive plan does not apply to extensions
of the public sanitary sewer system completed prior to January 1, 2008, and
this incentive plan does not apply to extensions of the public sanitary sewer
system that are undertaken as part of the major subdivision review and approval
process prescribed by the City of Asheboro Subdivision Ordinance or are
otherwise initiated by some person or entity other than the city.
   (D)   Sewer service connection fee for service to property outside city
limits. The following fees shall be charged for connection to the city sewer
system for property outside the city limits:
Size            Complete service to right-of-way
4"                  $ 3,750
6"                  $ 5,000
   (E)   Charges include all street repairs.
   (F)   When a connection to a city water or sewer facility, which has been
extended into an area outside of the city’s corporate limits at the sole
expense of the city, has been authorized by the City Council pursuant to §
50.008(B)(2) of this chapter, a surcharge shall be imposed on such a connection
in addition to any other fee prescribed by this section. The amount of the
surcharge shall be calculated by distributing the cost incurred by the city,
less any expense offset by the standard connection fee, pro rata between the
owners of each parcel of land served by the water or sewer facility to which
the connection is to be made. The exact surcharge for any particular water or
sewer facility subject to this division shall be listed in the schedule of
water/sewer service connection surcharges. This schedule of surcharges shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk and shall be available for public
inspection during regular business hours.
   (G)   Unlisted water and sewer service items for property inside city limits
will be at cost.
   (H)   Unlisted water service items for property outside city limits will be
at cost plus 50%.
   (I)   Unlisted sewer service items for property outside city limits will be
at cost plus 100%.
   (J)   Approval must be secured from the North Carolina Department of
Transportation before state-maintained streets can be cut.
(‘69 Code, § 23-4) (Motion passed 12-9-82; Am. Ord. passed 6-26-89; Am. Ord.
35-02, passed 10-10-02; Am. Ord. 1-05, passed 1-6-05; Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06,
passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 39 ORD 06-08,
passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-24,
passed 6-27-24)
§ 50.005 BILLING PERIODS.
   All residential, industrial, and commercial accounts shall be billed
monthly, and all accounts will be scheduled to receive bills only at the end of
the month on or about the thirtieth of the month. For purposes of this section
and throughout
Chapter 50, a commercial account is hereby defined as any account that is a
non-residential account or a non-industrial account.
('69 Code, § 23-4.1) (Ord. passed 5-9-74; Am. Ord. passed 12-6-74; Am. Ord. 59-
03, passed 6-5-03; Am. Ord. 65-03, passed 6-19-03; Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06, passed
6-20-06; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09)
§ 50.006 PAYING SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Water and sewer accounts are payable to the City Water Department, 146
North Church Street, Asheboro, North Carolina. All bills are due and payable on
receipt, and, subject to division (C) of this section, all accounts for which
payment is not received by the Water Department within 15 days from the billing
date indicated on the bill shall be considered delinquent. Once an account
becomes delinquent, a $10 fee shall be assessed against the account as a first
tier late fee. If an account remains in a state of delinquency as of the
twenty-fifth day from the billing date indicated on the bill, an additional $20
fee shall be assessed against the account as a second tier late fee. Upon
assessment, any and all late fees shall be immediately due and payable. For all
delinquent accounts that are in a state of delinquency of 25 days or more, a
cut-off notice shall be mailed which shall specify a final date by which
payment must be remitted or service will be discontinued pursuant to and in
accordance with §
50.007. The cut-off notice shall also provide notice that customers may submit
disputed bills to the Water and Sewer Billing and Collections Department
supervisor for review; the supervisor or his or her deputy shall be authorized
to make adjustments to the billing amount in accordance with §
50.021 if such is deemed proper following the review. The notice shall specify
the hours during which a customer may call or come by for a review of disputed
unpaid bills. After the review process, any customer who does not pay or make
arrangements to pay the amount determined by the review process to be owed to
the city shall be entered on a list of delinquent customers whose services are
to be terminated pursuant to and in accordance with §
50.007.
   (B)   If notification is received that a check has not been honored and has
been returned due to insufficient funds or for any other reason, a charge of
$25 shall be added to the customer's current bill, and such charge shall become
immediately due and payable. Additionally, if payment in full with good funds
has not been received within 15 days from the billing date indicated on the
customer's bill, the account shall be considered delinquent. In the event an
account becomes delinquent due to a financial institution not honoring a check,
a $10 late fee shall be assessed against the account as a first tier late fee.
If the account is or remains in a state of delinquency as of the twenty-fifth
day from the billing date, an additional $20 fee shall be assessed against the
account as a second tier late fee. A customer shall have five business days
from the date of notification to the city that the customer's check has not
been honored to make payment in full, including any assessed fees, with good
funds to the City Water Department. If the outstanding balance is not paid in
full with good funds within the time period specified in the preceding sentence
or by the twenty-fifth day of the month in which the bill is first due and
payable, whichever is later, the customer's water service will be discontinued
without further notice pursuant to and in accordance with §
50.007. Whenever within any 12-month period the city is notified on two
separate occasions that a customer's check has been returned due to
insufficient funds in the account or for any other reason, such a customer
shall be required to make payment in good funds for 12 consecutive billing
periods before such a customer is eligible to make payments in any other form.
   (C)   As with all other customers, water and sewer accounts that are paid by
means of automatic draft are payable to the City Water Department, 146 North
Church Street, Asheboro, North Carolina. Customers who choose to make payments
on their water and sewer accounts by means of automatic draft may make
arrangements with the City Water Department to have an appropriate account at a
financial institution drafted for payment in full of a regular billing on the
tenth day, fifteenth day, twentieth day, or twenty-fifth day of the month in
which a bill is due and payable. If notification is received that an attempted
automatic draft of a payment has failed due to insufficient funds in a
customer's designated account or for any other reason, a charge of $25 shall be
added to the customer's current bill, and such charge shall become immediately
due and payable. Additionally, if any attempted automatic draft of a customer's
account fails and payment in full with good funds has not been received within
15 days from the billing date indicated on the customer's bill, the account
shall be considered delinquent. In the event an account becomes delinquent, a
$10 late fee shall be assessed against the account as a first tier late fee. If
the account is or remains in a state of delinquency as of the twenty-fifth day
from the billing date, an additional $20 fee shall be assessed against the
account as a second tier late fee. A customer shall have five business days
from the date of notification to the City Water Department that an automatic
draft of the customer's designated account has not been honored to make payment
in full, including any assessed fees, with good funds to the City Water
Department. If the outstanding balance is not paid in full with good funds
within the time period specified in the preceding sentence or by the twenty-
fifth day of the month in which the bill is first due and payable, whichever is
later, the customer's water service will be discontinued without further notice
pursuant to and in accordance with § 
50.007. Whenever within any 12-month period the City Water Department is
notified on two separate occasions that an attempt to automatically draft a
customer's designated account for payment has failed due to insufficient funds
in the account or for any other reason, such a customer shall be required to
make payment in good funds only for 12 consecutive billing periods before such
a customer is eligible to make payments to the city in any form other than good
funds.
   (D)   Payments will be applied to a customer's bill in the following order:
      (1)   Solid waste services user fees and charges, inclusive of any and
all fees and charges found in
Chapter 51 of the Code of Asheboro other than recycling services user fees and
charges;
      (2)   Recycling services user fees and charges;
      (3)   Installment payments made in compliance with a payment plan
established in response to gubernatorial executive orders or local state of
emergency declarations that modify utility collection practices;
      (4)   Sampling fees;
      (5)   Surcharge fees;
      (6)   Miscellaneous fees and charges found in
Chapter 50 of the Code of Asheboro and not otherwise addressed by this
division, including without limitation any and all late fees and disconnection
fees;
      (7)   Sewer service charges; and
      (8)   Water service charges.
(‘69 Code, § 23-5) (Ord. passed 5-9-74; Am. Ord. passed 12-6-74; Am. Ord.
passed 4-5-90; Am. Ord. 59-03, passed 6-5-03; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 6-24-04;
Am. Ord. passed 6-9-05; Am. Ord. 39 ORD 06-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 06 ORD
2-09, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 08 ORD 2-09, passed 2-19-09; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-
15, passed 6-29-15; Am. Ord. 15 ORD 6-20, passed 6-4-20)
§ 50.007 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; RESTORATION FEE.
   (A)   Any customer whose water and sewer service bill shows that payment is
due for the current month and one preceding month shall have his water service
discontinued if the account is not paid within 25 days from the billing date
indicated on the bill in the greatest state of delinquency.
   (B)   Any customer who has had service disconnected and who applies for
restoration of service shall be considered a new customer; provided, however,
that the restoration of service for such a customer shall not relieve the
customer of any of his or her obligations and liabilities to the City of
Asheboro for any and all outstanding balances, specifically including without
limitation any assessed fees, still owed to the City of Asheboro as a
consequence of the individual’s or entity’s past relationship with the City of
Asheboro as a customer of the Water and Sewer Department. Furthermore, the
provisions of this division of §
50.007 shall not be construed so as to provide relief from restrictions as to
the form of payment that will be accepted from a customer when that customer
has had water service discontinued pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) of §
50.006 of this chapter. Prior to the restoration of service to an individual or
entity as a new customer under the provisions of this division of §
50.007, such a customer must pay the deposit amount required of a new customer,
if the previous deposit was applied to an outstanding balance, plus a minimum
of one- half of the total outstanding balance, including any and all service
fees and other assessed fees, owed by the individual or entity to the City of
Asheboro as a former customer. If a customer makes a partial payment in
accordance with this division in order to have service restored at either a
previous or a new service address, such a customer shall, prior to the
restoration of service, remit to the Water and Sewer Billing Department, in
addition to any other fees or charges, a partial payment service fee of $10.
The remaining balance of the outstanding debt shall be billed to the customer
on the customer’s next billing and shall be subject to collection in the same
manner as prescribed for any regular bill. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, a customer may not utilize a partial payment to obtain the
restoration of service on more than one occasion during any six calendar month
period.
   (C)   In addition to the option to institute a civil suit against a debtor
to recover amounts owed, when service has been discontinued to a customer and
the customer does not remit payment on the delinquent account, the city finance
department may submit a claim for the delinquent amount(s) for which the
customer is liable to the state’s debt set-off program established under
Chapter 105A of the North Carolina General Statutes for recovery against the
debtor’s state income tax or state lottery winnings, if any.
(‘69 Code, § 23-6) (Ord. passed 8-4-49; Am. Ord. passed 9-10-64; Am. Ord.
passed 5-9-74; Am. Ord. passed 12-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-90; Am. Ord. passed
5-4-95; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-98; Am. Ord. 59-03, passed 6-5-03; Am. Ord. 29-05,
passed 6-9-05; Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 39 ORD 06-08,
passed 6-24- 08; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-15,
passed 6-29-15)
§ 50.008 CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Unless a connection is expressly authorized by the provisions of this
section, owner(s) of real property located outside the city limits are not
permitted to connect to a city water line and/or sanitary sewer line.
   (B)   Except as provided by this division, owner(s) of real property located
outside the city limits seeking to connect to a city water line or sanitary
sewer line must connect to both facilities and shall not have the option of
connecting to one facility without the other. If one of the following
conditions is satisfied, real property located outside the city limits may be
connected to either a city water line or a city sanitary sewer line:
      (1)    The real property for which connection to either a city water line
or city sanitary sewer line is sought consists of one and only one parcel of
land that immediately adjoins an existing water or sanitary sewer line that is
owned, operated, and maintained by the city; or
      (2)   The City Council authorizes the connection of the real property to
either a city water line or city sanitary sewer line due to severe
topographical conditions or other factors peculiar to the site that would cause
undue hardship if connection to both lines were to be required. The City
Council may grant such an authorization only after it has received a written
request from the property owner(s) and entered one or more findings in the
Council's meeting minutes specifying the unique hardship(s) warranting such an
authorization. The written request is to be submitted to the City Council
through the City Manager, who shall act as the Council’s agent.
   (C)   Real property located outside of the city limits and already connected
to either a city water line or city sanitary sewer line must be annexed into
the city prior to the issuance of a connection permit authorizing the
connection of the real property to a previously unavailable or unutilized line.
If the real property for which a connection permit is sought can only be
annexed into the city by means of satellite annexation by petition, an
exemption from this requirement may be granted by the City Council upon written
request of the property owner(s) and upon the entry by the City Council in its
meeting minutes of findings that the noncontiguous area in question cannot be
annexed by petition of the owner(s) due to the area proposed for annexation
failing to meet the standards prescribed by G.S. § 160A-58.1(b).
   (D)   When property owner(s) choose to apply for permission to connect to a
city water line and/or sanitary sewer line concurrently with an on-going
annexation procedure, permission to make the requested connection(s) may be
granted at the following points in the annexation process.
      (1)   If an annexation process has been initiated by petition of the
property owner(s) requesting connection to the city water and/or sanitary sewer
line(s), the connection(s) may be approved no sooner than the effective date of
the ordinance extending the city limits to include the real property for which
a connection permit is sought. Notwithstanding any other provision in this
section, the City Council may authorize, prior to the effective date of the
ordinance extending the city limits to include real property for which
municipal water/sewer service is sought, a temporary connection permit allowing
the requested connection with the municipal infrastructure so long as, and only
so long as, such a permit is issued and maintained in strict compliance with
the following conditions:
         (a)   The annexation petitioner must submit a written request for a
temporary connection permit. This written request must state with specificity
the factors unique to the temporary connection permit applicant's situation
that will cause undue hardship if connection to the municipal infrastructure is
prohibited until the effective date of the annexation ordinance for which a
petition has been properly submitted. Alleged hardships from the delayed
connection that are common to the general public are not a proper basis for an
exception to the generally applicable rule that temporary connection to the
city's utility infrastructure in advance of the effective date of the
applicable annexation ordinance is prohibited.
         (b)   The written request for a temporary connection permit is to be
submitted to the City Manager, who shall act as the City Council's agent for
receiving and processing requests for temporary connection permits.
         (c)   A decision by the City Council to authorize a temporary
connection permit must be based upon one or more findings supporting the
determination that an undue hardship will be created in the absence of the
requested temporary connection permit. The required finding(s) shall be
recorded in the City Council's meeting minutes.
         (d)   The maximum duration of a temporary connection permit shall be
either the length of time required for an annexation ordinance to become
effective for the real property benefitted by the temporary connection permit
or six calendar months measured from the first day of the month immediately
following the issuance of the requested temporary connection permit, whichever
time period is shorter.
         (e)   Any fees paid under the applicable schedule of fees for the
temporary connection permit shall be credited toward the cost of a standard
connection permit issued after the effective date of the applicable annexation
ordinance.
      (2)   If the real property for which a connection permit is sought is
located within an area subject to a city-initiated annexation process, the
requested connection permit(s) may be approved no sooner than 71 days following
the date of the adoption of the annexation ordinance or the date of the final
resolution of any review proceedings initiated as a consequence of the adoption
of the annexation ordinance, whichever is later. This provision is not to be
construed as authorizing any customer of the city’s Water and Sewer Department
to be charged, prior to the effective date of the city-initiated annexation of
the area, with the same fees and at the same rates that are accorded to
customers located within the city limits.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      (1)   WATER LINE. Any water distribution line built to utility standards.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWER LINE. Any sanitary sewer collector, interceptor, and
outfall line built to utility standards.
   (F)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, when any real property
located outside the city limits is subject to a major subdivision of land plat
governed by the Subdivision Ordinance of the city, any application or request
for connection to the city water and sewer facilities shall be subject to and
reviewed in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Ordinance
pertaining to water and sewerage system improvements.
(Ord. 06-96, passed 6-6-96; Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 6-10-04; Am. Ord. 39 ORD 8-
06, passed 8-10-06; Am. Ord. 65 ORD 12-08, passed 12- 4-08; Am. Ord. 31 ORD 11-
19, passed 11-7-19)
§ 50.009   RELEASE OF BILLING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 132-1.1(c), billing information compiled and
maintained by the city's water and sewer utility is not public record. Except
as provided in division (B) of this section, the release of billing information
compiled and maintained by the water and sewer utility is prohibited.
   (B)   The release of billing information compiled and maintained by the
water and sewer utility is authorized under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Billing information will be released in accordance with written
instructions issued by the City Manager for the purpose of providing
information that will be useful or necessary to assist bond counsel, bond
underwriters, underwriters' counsel, rating agencies, or investors or potential
investors in making informed decisions regarding bonds or other obligations
incurred or to be incurred with respect to the water and sewer utility;
      (2)   Billing information requested by city division/department heads, or
their designees, for the purpose of providing municipal services or maintaining
the integrity and quality of such services will be released to the city
official who requested the billing information;
      (3)   Billing information requested by law enforcement officers, public
safety officers, public health officials (specifically including without
limitation the Randolph County Health Director and his or her designees), fire
protection officials (specifically including firefighters concerned with fire
suppression, arson investigators, and fire prevention code inspectors), rescue
and emergency management officials, and judicial officials in the performance
of their official duties will be released to the requesting officer or
official; and
      (4)   Upon request, a utility customer, or his or her authorized
representative, will be provided with billing information compiled and
maintained in connection with the customer's own account. Individuals and
entities, who are not otherwise authorized under the foregoing provisions in
division (B) of this section to receive billing information, are prohibited
from receiving any billing information compiled and maintained as part of an
account that does not list as a responsible party the person or entity making
the request for information or on behalf of whom the request for information
has been made.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the release
of a customer's social security number or any other personal identifying
information in violation of the applicable laws, specifically including without
limitation G.S. § 132-1.10.
(Ord. 21 ORD 8-12, passed 8-9-12; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13)
§ 50.010 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO THE CITY MANAGER.
   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, during a lawfully
declared state of emergency, the City Manager is authorized to modify or waive
the billing procedures and practices established by this chapter. This
delegated authority specifically includes the authority to halt collection
actions such as the disconnection of services, to suspend the imposition of
late fees or charges, and to establish payment plans arising out of the
applicable local state of emergency declaration or gubernatorial executive
order. This delegated authority to modify or waive billing procedures and
practices is temporary in duration and shall be in effect only during a
lawfully declared state of emergency or during the time period needed for the
full implementation of payment plans created to comply with the triggering
gubernatorial executive order or local state of emergency declaration,
whichever time frame is longer.
(Ord. 12 ORD 4-20, passed 4-9-20)
GENERAL WATER SERVICE PROVISIONS
§ 50.015 NONLIABILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be liable for failure to furnish water for any purpose or
under any conditions, or for the quantity or quality of the water furnished, or
for any damage that may result from the shutting off of water from the mains or
reservoirs, even though nonotice of the shutting off of water shall have been
given. All permits and contracts for the use of water from the city water
system are expressly made subject to the provisions hereof.
('69 Code, § 23-8)
§ 50.016 DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR WATER SERVICE.
   All occupants of residential, business or commercial dwellings, or
buildings, other than owners thereof, are required to make a deposit of $140
for customers charged inside rates and $160 for customers charged outside
rates.
(‘69 Code, § 23-9) (Ord. passed 8-4-49; Am. Ord. passed 4-5-62; Am. Ord. passed
5-9-74; Am. Ord. passed 12-5-85; Am. Ord. passed 5-4-95; Am. Ord. 59-03, passed
6- 5-03; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 6- 24-04; Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06;
Am. Ord. 20 ORD 6-07, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 48 ORD 10-07, passed 10-4-07; Am.
Ord. 17 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 50.017 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION OF WATER REGULATIONS.
   The Water and Sewer Department may order the water cut off and the service
either temporarily or permanently discontinued for violation of any provision
of this chapter or of any regulation made by the City Manager pursuant to this
Code or order of the City Council for the control, maintenance or protection of
the city water system and the connections therewith; and where such order is
made a fee shall be collected before the water shall be turned on and the
service resumed, as provided in §
50.007.
('69 Code, § 23-10)
§ 50.018 FRAUDULENT USE OR UNNECESSARY WASTE.
   In case of fraudulent use of water on the part of the consumer, or the
unnecessary waste thereof, the supply of water may be cut off from the premises
by order of the Water and Sewer Department.
('69 Code, § 23-2)
§ 50.019 TURNING ON WATER WHEN SHUT OFF BY CITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer or agent of the
Water and Sewer Department, to turn on the water to any premises from which the
water has been shut off by order of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-11) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.020 PERSONS NOT ENTITLED TO SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer of water from the city water
system to supply water to any person whose supply has been cut off by the Water
and Sewer Department for nonpayment of the water bill or for any other
violation of this chapter or other provision of this Code, or for the consumer
to permit any such person to take water from the fixtures on the consumer's
premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person not entitled to be supplied with
water from the City Water System to take water from any fixture thereof.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-12) (Am. Code 10- 04, passed 3-4-04; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09,
passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 ADJUSTMENT POLICY.
   With the approval of the City Council, the City Manager may adopt rules and
regulations concerning billing adjustments that may be made by the Water and
Sewer Billing Department during the course of collecting charges for water and
sewer utility services.
(Am. Ord. 59-03, passed 6-5-03)
§ 50.022 TEMPORARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE AT CUSTOMER'S REQUEST.
   When the property owner or consumer shall desire to temporarily discontinue
the use of water at any premises, a notice in writing to that effect shall be
given the Water and Sewer Department. In case the water is cut off it shall be
turned on when requested, upon payment of the fee for restoring service as
provided in §
50.007. When the owner or consumer shall fail to give such notice the minimum
monthly rate shall be charged, unless the meter shall show consumption of water
in excess thereof. Where premises are left unoccupied with the water not turned
off by the Department, no rebate will be allowed for water registered by the
meter that shall have leaked through the plumbing fixtures.
('69 Code, § 23-13)
§ 50.023 METER BY-PASS REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have a “by-pass” around any
water meter, without a written permit therefor from the Water and Sewer
Department; and it shall be unlawful for any person lawfully having a “by-pass”
to open or use it except when permitted to do so by the Water and Sewer
Department. Each day such “by-pass” is unlawfully used shall constitute a
separate violation of this section.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-14) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to open, turn on, or use water
from any fire hydrant connected to the City of Asheboro water distribution
system, or to attach any hose, pipe, or any other type of apparatus to such a
fire hydrant, without a written revocable permit issued by the Water Resources
Director or his or her designee; provided, that this prohibition shall not
apply to employees of the City of Asheboro qualified to use fire hydrants in
the course of performing their official duties. Portable meters for connection
to fire hydrants may be furnished by the city after a permit application and
security deposit have been submitted to the Water Resources Director or his or
her designee. The permit holder shall be responsible for any damage to the
hydrant, portable meter, connections, or any other component of the city’s
water distribution system. Such damages will be billed to the permit holder.
Subject to the following exception, all charges for water consumption shall be
billed to the permit holder in accordance with the adopted rate schedule.
Contractors performing work for the city and contractors blowing off newly
constructed water lines will not be billed for the water used for these
particular tasks. While a hydrant is in use, no wrench shall be used on the
hydrant other than an approved hydrant wrench.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-15) (Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-
09, passed 9-10-09; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 YARD FIXTURES TO BE CLOSED WHEN NOT IN USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any yard hydrant, sprinkler,
or other yard fixture to leak or remain open when not in use.
('69 Code, § 23-16)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.026 TRESPASS UPON PREMISES USED IN PROVIDING CITY WATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to enter upon, walk, ride, bathe, swim, boat,
skate, hunt, fish or trespass in any manner whatsoever upon any portion of any
pond or reservoir or any land or building owned, leased or controlled by the
city for the purpose of providing water, whether such property is located
within or without the city limits, unless such activity is approved by the
Recreation Services Department.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-19) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 EMERGENCY WATER MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Subject to review by the City Council at any regular or special
meeting of the City Council, a "water emergency" may be declared by the City
Manager or his or her designee to exist when any condition or situation exists
that may threaten the availability and/or safety of either treated or potable
water from the water supply, treatment, and distribution system operated and
maintained by the city. A "water emergency" shall be declared by the City
Manager or his or her designee to exist when users of the city water system
cannot be supplied with treated or potable water without substantially
curtailing the water demand placed on the city's water system. Furthermore, a
"water emergency" shall be declared to exist when production, treatment,
transmission, and storage facilities are incapable of meeting all daily water
demands or when projections of available water show that the available supply
of water will not meet the daily water demands.
   (B)   A declaration of the existence of a "water emergency" by the City
Manager or his or her designee shall specify the level of severity of the
emergency and be in the form of a signed executive order that, upon its
issuance, shall be distributed to the Mayor and members of the City Council in
a manner calculated to provide the most expeditious notification possible. Once
the distribution of the declaration of the existence of a "water emergency" to
the Mayor and members of the City Council has been undertaken, the City Manager
or his or her designee shall give notice to the general public by means of a
public press announcement of the existence of a "water emergency" and the
severity thereof. The regulatory provisions authorized by this section will
become effective 24 hours after the issuance of the public press announcement
specified in the preceding sentence.
   (C)   In the event of a sudden and severe water shortage created by a
disrupted waterline or some other malfunction/disruption of the city's water
system, the City Manager or his or her designee may immediately place into
effect the appropriate restrictive provisions authorized herein. The
restrictive provisions implemented by the City Manager or his or her designee
may include, but are not limited to, the temporary discontinuance of service
without prior notice to any person, entity, or structure receiving water from
the city water system. Furthermore, such restrictive provisions implemented as
a consequence of a sudden and severe disruption of water service may also
include, but are not limited to, any combination of the various restrictions
found within the different levels of staged water use restrictions prescribed
by division (D) below. Any restrictive provisions implemented pursuant to this
division may be city-wide in scope or limited to the geographic area of the
city affected by a localized disruption of the city's water system. The
necessity of such restrictive provisions shall be reevaluated on a daily basis
by the City Manager or his or her designee, in consultation with the Water
Resources Director, and the restrictive provisions authorized by this division
shall be terminated by the City Manager or his or her designee as soon as is
practicable. In the event of the imposition of such temporary restrictive
provisions due to a sudden disruption to the water system, the notification
requirements prescribed by division (B) above shall be implemented as soon as
practicable.
   (D)   The severity of a "water emergency" shall be classified and expressed
by the City Manager or his or her designee in terms of the level of staged
water use restrictions imposed on consumers of water from the city water
system. For the purpose of this section, the staged water use restrictions are
as follows:
      (1)   Level I (Voluntary). During a declared Level I water emergency,
consumers of water from the city water system shall be encouraged to implement
the following voluntary water conservation practices:
         (a)   Watering of lawns, ornamental plants, and gardens should be
limited to the hours between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (b)   Use of water for wash down of outside areas such as driveways,
parking lots, and sidewalks should be curtailed;
         (c)   Faucets should not be left running while shaving, brushing
teeth, or washing dishes;
         (d)   The use of clothes and dishwashers should be limited where
possible, and these units should be operated with full loads;
         (e)   Washing cars and other vehicles should be curtailed to Saturday
and Sundays, and hoses should not be left running while washing;
         (f)   The use of flow restriction and other water saving devices is
encouraged;
         (g)   Showers should be used for bathing, and showers should be
limited to four minutes or less; and
         (h)   Filling of pools should be deferred or limited to hours between
7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (2)   Level II (Mandatory). During a declared Level II water emergency,
the following mandatory water use restrictions shall be in effect for consumers
of water from the city water system:
         (a)   The watering of lawns, ornamental plants, and gardens shall be
limited to the hours between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         (b)   The watering of lawns, ornamental plants, and gardens shall not
be done except by handheld containers (buckets, jugs, etc.), and no
applications for irrigation meters will be accepted or approved;
         (c)   With the exception of situations where a wash down of outside
areas is necessary due to public health and safety concerns, the residential
use of water for wash down of outside areas is prohibited. Commercial pressure
washers shall be permitted to continue normal operations. However, the
commercial pressure washer owners and/or operators shall ensure that water
wastage does not occur;
         (d)   Residential washing of cars and other vehicles is prohibited.
Automobile retail establishments and commercial automobile washing facilities
including those providing hand held washing nozzles shall be permitted to
continue normal operations. However, the facility owner/operator shall ensure
that water wastage does not occur;
         (e)   Restaurants and other food serving establishments shall serve
water to patrons only at the request of the patron(s);
         (f)   Commercial, industrial and construction operations shall
eliminate all possible waste of water. Large scale commercial and industrial
operations and construction activities that utilize 20,000 cubic feet or more
of water per month shall submit a water reduction compliance plan to achieve
25%, 50%, or 75% water reduction as specified under the Level II water
emergency declaration within 14 days of the effective date of the regulations
and restrictions specified in the Level II water emergency declaration; and
         (g)   Above-ground pools, Jacuzzis, and hot tubs having a capacity of
500 gallons or more and all newly constructed or drained in-ground pools shall
be filled by permit only. The Water Resources Director or his or her designee
shall review applications for such fill permits. The issuance of such a permit
may be denied on the basis of the assessment by the Water Resources Director of
the severity of the situation.
      (3)   Level III (Mandatory). During a declared Level III water emergency,
the following mandatory use restrictions shall be in effect for consumers of
water from the city water system:
         (a)   Any form of watering or irrigating lawns, gardens, and/or other
plants is prohibited;
         (b)   With the exception of situations where the wash down of certain
outside areas is necessary due to public health and safety concerns, the use of
water for wash down of outside areas is prohibited;
         (c)   With the exception of situations where the washing of certain
items is necessary due to public health and safety concerns, the washing of
cars, vehicles, and/or other equipment is prohibited;
         (d)   Restaurants and other food serving establishments shall utilize
single serving utensils and plates in addition to serving water to patrons only
at the request of the patron(s);
         (e)   Recreational use of potable water, including filling of pools,
is prohibited;
         (f)   Large scale commercial and industrial water customers and
construction activities utilizing 20,000 cubic feet or more of water per month
shall achieve mandatory reductions in daily water usage of 25%, 50%, or 75%
through whatever means are available. The target reduction percentage shall be
determined by the severity of the water emergency and shall be publicly
announced as part of the emergency declaration. The Water Resources Director
shall determine compliance with the daily usage reduction targets. Variances to
this restriction may be granted by the Water Resources Director to public
health facilities including, but not limited to, hospitals and nursing homes;
         (g)   Drinking water taps or hydrant permits shall be issued or
revoked at the discretion of the Water Resources Director; and
         (h)   Unless a bulk water sale is made pursuant to an existing
contract, bulk water sales shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Level IV (Mandatory). During a declared Level IV water emergency,
the following mandatory water use restrictions shall be in effect for consumers
of water from the city water system:
         (a)   All use of water for purposes other than the maintenance of
public health and safety is prohibited;
         (b)   Unless a bulk water sale is made pursuant to an existing
contract, bulk water sales shall be prohibited;
         (c)   Where the city water system is functional, monthly residential
water use shall not exceed 1,200 cubic feet of water at each metered location;
         (d)   Where the city water system is not functional, National Guard
and emergency services vehicles shall be utilized to distribute water for
household use at prearranged locations within the effected area. Usage by
individuals shall be limited to those amounts necessary to sustain life through
drinking, food preparation, and personal hygiene; and
         (e)   The compliance plan for industries during Level IV remains the
same as Level III or as directed by the State Public Health Officials.
   (E)   In the event of the declaration of a "water emergency" by the City
Manager or his or her designee in accordance with the provisions of this
section, it shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of water
from the water system of the city in violation of any of the provisions set
forth in this section until such time as the City Manager or his or her
designee has declared the restrictive provision(s) in question to be no longer
in effect.
   (F)   Once a "water emergency" has been declared and the appropriate staged
restrictions imposed, the Water Resources Director or his or her designee shall
review the operational status of the city's water system and the supply of
water available to the city's water system at least once per calendar day. On a
daily basis, the Water Resources Director shall notify the City Manager or his
or her designee of the operational status of the city's water system and the
available water supply. On the basis of the information gathered in order to
provide this notification, the Water Resources Director or his or her designee
shall recommend to the City Manager or his or her designee during the course of
this daily notification procedure whether a different stage of restriction
should be implemented. The City Manager or his or her designee shall make the
final determination as to whether any change in the stage of restriction is
warranted. If such a change in the stage of restriction is warranted, the
notification procedures prescribed by division (B) above shall be followed in
the same manner as for the initial declaration of a "water emergency".
   (G)   Compliance with the provisions of this section shall be enforced by
personnel of the Water Resources Division, the Police Department, and any other
personnel designated by the City Manager. Failure to comply with any of the
regulations or restrictions of this section shall be unlawful and a violation
of this section. All remedies authorized by law for noncompliance with this
section, including the issuance of a civil penalty citation or an action for
injunctive relief, may be exercised to enforce the provisions of this section.
It shall be unlawful to fail to act in accordance with the provisions of this
section or to use water in any manner that constitutes an attempted and /or
actual evasion or avoidance of the water restrictions prescribed by this
section.
   (H)   (1)   Any consumer of water from the city water system who violates
any provision of this section shall be subject to civil penalties as follows:
         (a)   During a declared Level II water emergency, residential users
who violate any of the mandatory restrictions of this section shall be subject
to a written warning for the first offense; a civil penalty in the amount of
$100 for the second offense; and a civil penalty in the amount of $200 for the
third and successive offenses. During a declared Level III or Level IV water
emergency, there shall be no warnings issued, and residential users who violate
any of the mandatory restrictions of this section shall be subject to a civil
penalty in the amount of $100 for the first offense and a civil penalty in the
amount of $200 for the second and successive offenses.
         (b)   During any declared water emergency, any non-residential user
who violates any of the mandatory restrictions of this section shall be subject
to a written warning for the first offense; a civil penalty of $200 for the
second offense; a civil penalty of $500 for the third offense; and a civil
penalty of $1,000 for the fourth and successive offenses.
      (2)   Violations shall be accumulated by all consumers of water from the
city water system so long as a declared "water emergency", in any stage, is
continuously in effect and until no stage of this section has been in effect
for one calendar year. Violations of any of the mandatory restrictions of any
stage of a declared "water emergency" under the provisions of this section
shall accumulate with violations of the mandatory restrictions of any of the
other stages under this section. If a customer of the water system moves or
ceases service and subsequently renews service during any of the stages of a
declared "water emergency" under this section, the customer's violations shall
continue to accumulate as if such move or cessation had not occurred.
   (I)   Any citation that is issued by authorized personnel under this section
and that is enforceable by civil penalties shall be subject to administrative
review by the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee. This administrative
review shall occur only when the alleged violator has made a written request
for such a review within 15 calendar days of the issuance of the citation at
issue. This written request for administrative review must be hand delivered or
sent by certified mail to the Zoning Administrator at his office in City Hall.
If a request for administrative review is not received in person by the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee or postmarked within 15 calendar days of
the date of issuance of a citation, administrative review of the matter shall
be deemed to have been waived.
   (J)   When an alleged violator of the provisions of this section has filed
in a timely manner a written request for administrative review that conforms to
the provisions of division (I) above, the Zoning Administrator or his or her
designee shall hold a hearing within 30 calendar days of the date of receipt of
the written request for such a hearing. At this hearing, the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee shall review the violation alleged in the
citation and shall provide the alleged violator an opportunity to be heard in
response to the allegations alleged in the citation under review. Within five
calendar days of the date on which the administrative hearing is held, the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall render a written decision
whereby liability or no liability on the part of the alleged violator is found
to exist. Such a decision shall be delivered to the person or entity that filed
the request for administrative review by means of hand delivery or certified
mail, return receipt requested. Upon receipt of notification of any decision
finding liability, the violator shall make payment of any civil penalty
incurred within 15 calendar days. If payment of any civil penalty due is not
received within 15 calendar days following receipt of notice of liability after
administrative review, the violator shall be liable for an additional civil
penalty of $100.
   (K)   A water customer that fails to pay a civil penalty assessed against
the customer after the later of either 30 calendar days from the date of
receipt of a citation or the date of receipt of notice finding liability
following administrative review shall have his or her water disconnected and
shall be assessed a disconnect fee of $30. In order to have his or her water
service restored, the customer will have to pay the past due civil penalty and
any other outstanding fees or charges in accordance with §
50.007(D).
   (L)   Upon a fourth violation of this section, a violator shall be guilty of
a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 as provided by G.S.
§14-4, and, in addition thereto, such violation may be enjoined and restrained
as provided in G.S. §160A-175. The issuing of a criminal warrant shall not
prohibit the imposition of further civil penalties.
   (M)   The Water Resources Director or his or her designee shall have the
authority to discontinue or restrict water service to any person, entity, or
structure in the event of any violation of the mandatory restrictions imposed
pursuant to this section. With the exception of the imposition of a
discontinuance of service pursuant to division (C) above, the Water Resources
Director shall provide by the most expeditious means reasonably available a
minimum of two working days written notice of his or her intent to discontinue
or restrict water service to a particular person, entity, or structure before
such discontinuance or restriction of service is implemented. During the period
of the two day notice, any person or entity claiming the status of an aggrieved
party may make a request of the City Manager or his or her designee to be heard
as to why such discontinuance or restriction of water service should not be
enforced. If such a request is received by the City Manager or his or her
designee in a timely manner, the requesting party shall be heard by the City
Manager or his or her designee on the said matter as soon as is practicable.
Once a matter is scheduled by the City Manager for hearing, the decision of the
Water Resources Director shall be stayed until the City Manager or his or her
designee renders a decision as to the aggrieved party's request. The decision
rendered by the City Manager or his or her designee in such a matter shall be
final. When water service has been discontinued or restricted pursuant to and
in accordance with this division, it shall be unlawful to reactivate such
service without the permission of the Water Resources Director.
   (N)   Each day's continuing violation of this section shall be a separate
and distinct criminal and civil offense. Each violation of this section shall
be a separate offense even if occurring on the same day.
   (O)   (1)   Termination of any stage of a declared "water emergency" shall
be determined and ordered by the City Manager or his or her designee when he or
she, in direct consultation with the Water Resources Director or his or her
designee, determines that the water supply available for use by the city water
system is no longer so low as to constitute a "water emergency" under the terms
of this section. Upon termination of any "water emergency" and any stage
thereof, all fines or penalties incurred by any consumer of water from the
city's water system shall remain in effect until paid. Upon such termination,
discontinued users may have their service restored upon payment of the regular
fees charged to customers who have had their water service disconnected.
      (2)   However, no such fees shall be charged to consumers who had their
water service discontinued pursuant to division (C).
   (P)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all such persons or
entities using public water both in and outside the city, regardless of whether
any such person or entity using water shall have a contract for water service
with the city.
   (Q)   If any division, clause, or provision of this section shall be judged
invalid, such adjudication shall apply only to such division, clause, or
provision so adjudged, and the remainder of this section shall be declared
valid and effective.
   (R)   All ordinances and clauses of ordinances in conflict herewith are
stayed while any provision of this section is in effect during a declared
"water emergency". Such conflicting ordinances and clauses shall become
effective upon termination of the "water emergency".
(Ord. 26-02, passed 8-8-02; Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 63
ORD 12-07, passed 12-6-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-09, passed 9-10-09)
CONNECTIONS AND FIXTURES
§ 50.037 CONNECTION TO CITY WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever premises within the city limits are required to have a
potable water supply, connection to the city water system is required unless a
suitable and adequate water supply is provided from a well. Water supply from a
well will be permitted for a period of ten years after public water becomes
available. At that time, it shall be the duty of the owner of such premises to
make immediate application in writing for connection with the city water system
and to have such connection made. Under unusual or special circumstances, the
local government may waive this provision.
   (B)   Upon completion of any extension of the city water system, the city
shall send official notice to property owners required by division (A) of this
section to make connection with the public water system that the system is
available and connection to the city water system is required within the time
frame specified in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As an incentive for early connection to the city water system, the
water service connection fees prescribed by §
50.004(A) shall be discounted on the basis of how quickly owners of property
required to connect to the city water system pursuant to this section do in
fact make the required connections. The baseline for determining the amount of
the discount for which a property owner is eligible shall be referred to as the
notification date, and this notification date is the date on which the notice
required by division (B) of this section is deposited by the city with the
United States Postal Service for delivery as first class mail. If a city water
system connection is made within two and one-half years of the notification
date, the water service connection fee shall be waived. If a connection is made
after two and one-half years, but before five years have lapsed, the water
service connection fee shall be discounted by 75%. If a connection is made
after five years, but before seven and one-half years have lapsed, the water
service connection fee shall be discounted by 50%. If a connection is made
after seven and one-half years, but before ten years have lapsed, the water
service connection fee shall be discounted by 25%. No discount shall be
available once ten years have lapsed since the notification date. This
incentive plan does not apply to extensions of the city water system completed
prior to January 1, 2008, and this incentive plan does not apply to extensions
of the city water system that are undertaken as part of the major subdivision
review and approval process prescribed by the City of Asheboro Subdivision
Ordinance or are otherwise initiated by some person or entity other than the
city.
(Ord. 15-93, passed 7-8-93; Am. Ord. 63 ORD 12-07, passed 12-6-07)
§ 50.038 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH PROPERTY OWNERS MAY LAY PIPE LINES IN STREETS.
   When water connections shall be desired for any property in the city limits
situated upon a street or a part thereof where pipe has been laid, and the city
shall be unwilling to extend its water mains to the property, the owner of the
property may make application to the city for permission to lay a line of pipe
from the city water mains to such owner's property. The permit issued to such
person shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and shall be subject to
the following conditions, which shall be expressed therein:
   (A)   The person to whom the permit shall be granted shall bear all the
expense of laying the pipe line and of connecting it to the city main.
   (B)   The pipe shall be laid according to specifications furnished by the
Engineering Department and the work shall be done under the supervision and
control of that department.
   (C)   The city shall be saved harmless from all loss, cost, damage and
expense by reason of any injury to any person or property as a result of laying
of such pipe line.
   (D)   Such pipe line, when completed, shall become the property of the city
and be subject to its control.
('69 Code, § 23-23)
§ 50.039 TAPPING TO SERVICE CONNECTION; INSTALLATION OF METER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an employee of the
Water and Sewer Department to connect any premises with the city water system.
When a service connection has been made between the water main and curb and the
owner of the premises desires that his premises be connected with such service
connection he shall make application to the Water and Sewer Department for the
installation of a water meter. Upon the payment of the prescribed fee such
meter will be installed and connection made by the city.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-24) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 50.040 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COST OF CONNECTIONS.
   The cost of making any connection between the water main and the meter
within the curb line, including material and meter, shall be paid for by the
applicant for the connection.
('69 Code, § 23-25)
§ 50.041 CONNECTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Water connections shall be made in accordance with city standard
specifications and details. Connections may be made by a developer upon
approval by the city or may be made by the Water and Sewer Department upon
application and payment.
   (B)   This section shall apply to connections both inside and outside the
city limits; but no provision of this section shall apply when incompatible
with the North Carolina State Building Code.
('69 Code, § 23-26)
§ 50.042 STOP AND WASTE COCK INSTALLATION.
   The owner of the premises to be connected with the city water system shall
install a brass stop and waste cock inside the building; the cock at the meter
shall be for the exclusive use of the Water and Sewer Department.
('69 Code, § 23-27)
§ 50.043 CONNECTION MAINTENANCE.
   The piping and connections beyond the meter, or meter connections, including
that within the meter box, shall be kept in repair by the owner of the
premises.
('69 Code, § 23-28)
§ 50.044 WATER METERS; TESTING AND FEES.
   (A)   The meter shall determine the quantity of water for which the consumer
shall be charged, and all water passing through the meter shall be charged for,
whether such water shall have been used or wasted or the premises shall not
have been occupied. Where any meter shall have become locked, so that it has
not registered correctly the quantity of water which has passed through since
the last reading, the quantity for the month during which the meter has failed
to register shall be determined by taking an average of the water consumed
during the three months next preceding the month in which the meter has failed
to register, and the consumer or owner shall be charged for that quantity.
('69 Code, § 23-29)
   (B)   Each consumer of water from the city water system shall be required to
have a separate water meter; provided, that one meter may be used for several
premises, apartments, blocks of stores, shops and tenement houses, where they
shall be the property of the same owner and such owner shall agree to pay for
all water consumed by the tenants of such property. In case the ownership of
one or more of such premises shall pass to another person, separate meters
shall be installed at once.
('69 Code, § 23-20)
   (C)   Testing and fees.
      (1)   Meters shall be tested by the Water and Sewer Department upon
request of the consumer and the payment in advance of $20 for a testing fee.
      (2)   Meters found to have a malfunction will be repaired or replaced and
the $20 fee for testing will be credited to the customer account.
      (3)   Meters found to be functioning correctly will be put back in
service and the $20 testing fee retained by the city.
   (D)   In-ground irrigation systems connected to the city water system.
      (1)   On and after September 11, 2009, all new in- ground irrigation
systems that are to be supplied with water from the city water system shall be
independently connected to the system, and water consumption shall be measured
through a separate irrigation meter. Notwithstanding any other provision found
in this chapter, and regardless of whether the irrigation system is located
within or outside of the corporate limits of the city, it shall be unlawful for
any person to install a new in-ground irrigation system in a manner that does
not strictly conform to the requirements specified in division (D) of this
section.
      (2)   An irrigation service line may be installed by means of a direct
tap into the water main or by means of a split line that connects to the non-
irrigation service line at a point between the main and the non-irrigation
meter. Either method of connection shall be performed by the city’s water
maintenance department or by a licensed contractor that has obtained a permit
from the city authorizing the installation of an irrigation service line. The
decision as to whether to permit a licensed contractor to make the connection
or to utilize city forces to make the connection shall be in the sole
discretion of the Water Resources Director or his or her designee. It shall be
unlawful for a contractor to install an irrigation service line without first
obtaining from the city’s Water Resources Director or his or her designee a
permit authorizing the installation of an irrigation service line. At a
minimum, the applicant for such a permit will not be eligible for the issuance
of the requested permit until the city has received payment in good funds for
the meter and any related items to be provided by the city.
      (3)   Unless specifically addressed by a provision in division (D) of
this section, an irrigation service line, the irrigation meter, and all related
appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with the same regulations,
policies and procedures that apply to non-irrigation meters.
(Am. Ord., passed 5-4-95; Am. Ord. 41 ORD 9-09, passed 9- 10-09)
§ 50.045 DISCONNECTION FEES.
   Fees shall be charged to offset the costs incurred by the city when
additional measures are undertaken to enforce compliance with water and sewer
utility regulations. The fees charged for disconnection related services are as
follows:
   (A)   Seventy-five dollar meter extraction fee. This charge shall be applied
to a customer's account when the water meter is physically removed from a
service location because of a combination of noncompliance with the regulations
found in this chapter and a history with the customer's account at this service
location of more than one incident of unauthorized water service connection or
reconnection.
   (B)   One hundred and fifty dollar meter yoke extraction fee. This charge
shall be applied to a customer's account when the meter yoke for a service
location is physically removed because of a combination of noncompliance with
the regulations found in this chapter and a history with the customer's account
at this service location of the utilization of an unapproved replacement meter
or other unapproved apparatus to obtain unauthorized water service after the
city has extracted a water meter in order to discontinue water service.
(Ord. 12 ORD 4-20, passed 4-9-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.046 CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   (A)   This section applies to all persons and entities that use, or connect
in any way, to the public potable water distribution system of the City of
Asheboro (the "public water system"). The purposes of this section are as
follows:
      (1)   To protect the public water system by containing within the
consumer's water system such contaminants, waterborne health hazards, and other
significant pollutants that could backflow or back siphon through uncontrolled
cross-connections into the public water system; and
      (2)   To establish a continuing inspection program designed to
systematically and effectively control all actual or potential cross-
connections.
   (B)   For the purposes of the Cross-Connection Control and Backflow
Prevention Ordinance, the following designations of responsibility are made.
      (1)   Responsibilities of the City of Asheboro Public Works Division and
Water Resources Division. Except as otherwise provided herein, the city is the
water purveyor and is responsible for ensuring a safe water supply begins at
the source and includes all of the public water distribution system, including
the service connection, and ends at the point of delivery to the consumer's
water system(s). The city will determine the degree of hazard or potential
hazard to the public water system, the degree of protection required, and will
enforce proper containment protection through an ongoing inspection program.
The city will identify premises/facilities where the installation of approved
backflow prevention assemblies is required. When a determination is made that a
backflow prevention assembly is required for the protection of the public water
system, the city will require the consumer, at the consumer's expense, to
install an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service connection, to
test that backflow prevention assembly immediately upon installation and
thereafter at a frequency determined by the city, and to properly repair and
maintain the assembly or assemblies. The required testing date will be
determined by the city and may be adjusted as necessary.
      (2)   Responsibilities of City of Asheboro building inspectors. Where the
review of building plans and/or inspections of work on a job site detect actual
or potential cross-connections within the plumbing system, a building inspector
has the responsibility for requiring either the elimination of such cross-
connections or the proper installation of approved backflow prevention
equipment.
      (3)   Responsibilities of the City of Asheboro Public Works Director and
the Cross-Connection Control Coordinator. The Public Works Director and the
Cross-Connection Control Coordinator, and their designees, are responsible for
administering the City of Asheboro Cross-Connection Control and Backflow
Prevention Ordinance found in this section.
      (4)   Consumer responsibilities. The consumer has the primary
responsibility of preventing pollutants and contaminants from entering the
consumer's water system. The consumer's responsibility starts at the point of
delivery from the public water system and includes all of the consumer's water
system. The consumer, at the consumer's expense, is responsible for properly
installing, operating, testing, and maintaining approved backflow prevention
assemblies. The consumer shall have a certified backflow prevention assembly
tester submit test reports to the city in the manner required by this section
and the administrative guidelines adopted by the city's Public Works Division.
Following any repair, overhaul, re-piping, or relocation of an assembly, the
consumer shall have the backflow prevention assembly tested in compliance with
applicable provisions of this section to ensure that the apparatus is in good
operating condition and will prevent backflow.
      (5)   Responsibilities of a certified backflow prevention assembly
tester. The certified backflow prevention assembly tester will have the
following responsibilities:
         (a)   Each person wishing to test backflow prevention assemblies shall
certify to the city that he/she has met the minimum qualification standards
established by this section for certification as a backflow prevention assembly
tester. This certification shall be in the form and manner prescribed in the
administrative guidelines adopted by the city's Public Works Division. If at
any time a backflow prevention assembly tester's certification is revoked,
suspended, or flagged as inactive, such an individual shall not submit test
reports to the city for approval;
         (b)   The backflow prevention assembly tester is responsible for
making competent inspections and making reports of such activities to the
consumer and the city. The backflow prevention assembly tester shall be
equipped with and be competent to use all the necessary tools, gauges, and
other equipment necessary to properly test backflow prevention assemblies. The
backflow prevention assembly tester is responsible for the competency and
accuracy of all tests and reports, which shall be retained by the tester for a
minimum of three years from the date of testing. Copies of all test and repair
reports shall be provided by the backflow prevention assembly tester in
accordance with the provisions of this section to the consumer and the city
within ten business days of any completed test;
         (c)   In order for a backflow prevention assembly test report to be
eligible for submission to the city, the report must document that the tested
backflow prevention assembly is currently in a passing status. When a backflow
prevention assembly fails a test, the device shall be repaired and achieve
passing status before the report is submitted to the city;
         (d)   Backflow prevention assembly testers shall comply with all
applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations while performing
testing activities in the city; and
         (e)   Only the property owner or a certified licensed plumber is
permitted to repair or replace a backflow prevention assembly.
   (C)   Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this section, will have the meanings
hereafter designated.
      AIR GAP. A physical separation between the free-flowing discharge end of
a potable water supply pipeline and an open or non-pressure receiving vessel.
An "approved air gap" shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe
measured vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel and in no case less
than one inch (2.54 cm).
      APPROVED CHECK VALVE. A check valve that is drip-tight in the normal
direction of flow when the inlet pressure is at least one psi (pounds per
square inch) and the outlet pressure is zero. The check valve  shall permit no
leakage in a direction reversed to the normal flow. The closure element (e.g.,
clapper, poppet, or other design) shall be internally loaded to promote rapid
and positive closure. An approved check valve is only one component of an
approved backflow prevention assembly (i.e., pressure vacuum breaker, double-
check valve assembly, double-check detector assembly, reduced pressure
principle assembly, or reduced pressure detector assembly).
      ATMOSPHERIC TYPE VACUUM BREAKER OR NON-PRESSURE TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. A
device containing a float-check, a check seat, and an air inlet port. The flow
of water into the body causes the float to close the air inlet port. When the
flow of water stops, the float falls and forms a check valve against back
siphonage and at the same time opens the air inlet port to allow air to enter
and satisfy the vacuum. A shutoff valve immediately upstream may be an integral
part of the device. An atmospheric vacuum breaker is designed to protect
against a non-health hazard (isolation protection only) under a back siphonage
condition only.
      AUXILIARY INTAKE. Any piping connection or other device whereby water may
be obtained from a source other than the public water system.
      AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises/
facility other than the public water system. These waters may be contaminated
or polluted, or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the city does not have sanitary control.
      BACK PRESSURE. Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system
(by pump, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure) above the supply
pressure at the point of consideration, which would cause, or tend to cause, a
reversal of the normal direction of flow.
      BACK SIPHONAGE. A form of backflow due to a reduction in system pressure,
which causes a sub-atmospheric pressure to exist at a site in the water system.
      BACKFLOW. The undesirable reversal of flow of water or mixtures of water
and other liquids, gases, or other substances into the distribution pipes of
the potable supply of water from any source or sources. See BACK PRESSURE and
BACK SIPHONAGE.
      BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY. A mechanical valve/assembly used to prevent
backflow into a consumer or public potable water system that meets or exceeds
standards set forth by both the University of Southern California Foundation
for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research ("USCFCCHR") and the
American Society of Sanitary Engineering ("ASSE") and appears on both of the
entities' approval lists. A backflow prevention assembly used on fire
suppression systems must have the additional approval of the Factory Mutual
Research Corporation ("FM") and comply with the National Fire Protection
Association ("NFPA") code. The type of assembly used should be based on the
existing or potential degree of hazard. The types of backflow prevention
assemblies are enumerated on the following list:
         (a)   Double-check valve assembly ("DCVA");
         (b)   Double-check detector assembly (fire system) ("DCDA");
         (c)   Pressure vacuum breaker ("PVB");
         (d)   Reduced pressure principle assembly ("RP");
         (e)   Reduced pressure principle detector assembly ("RPDA"); and
         (f)   Residential dual check ("RDC").
      BELOW GRADE. Underneath the surface of the earth or beneath material
placed on the surface of the earth.
      BUILDING STORY. A building floor, section, or division equal to ten feet
in height.
      CERTIFIED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER OR TESTERS. A person who
has proven their competency to the satisfaction of the city. Only a state
licensed plumber or the owner of the property where the backflow prevention
assembly is installed may repair or replace backflow prevention assemblies.
Only a fire sprinkler contractor can install, replace, or repair backflow
preventers that are part of a fire sprinkler system. Each person who is
certified to make competent tests and make reports on backflow prevention
assemblies shall:
         (a)   Be knowledgeable of all federal, state, and local laws and
regulations applicable to backflow prevention assemblies in Asheboro; and
         (b)   Hold a certificate of completion from a city recognized and
approved North Carolina cross-connection school for the testing of backflow
prevention assemblies.
      CERTIFIED LICENSED PLUMBER. A person that holds a plumbing class I
license or plumbing class II license issued by the North Carolina State Board
of Examiners of Plumbing, Heating, and Fire Sprinkler Contractors or is
licensed as a public utilities contractor by the North Carolina Licensing Board
for General Contractors.
      CONSUMER. Any person, partnership, company, corporation, association,
organization, body politic or corporate, and any other group acting as a unit
using or receiving water from the public water system.
      CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. That portion of any water system lying between
the point of delivery from the public water system and the point of use. This
system includes all pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment,
and appurtenances located beyond the point of delivery from the public water
system. Such a system may be either a potable water system or an industrial
piping system.
      CONTAINMENT. Preventing the impairment of the public water system by
installing an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service connection.
      CONTAINMENT ASSEMBLY. A backflow prevention assembly installed at the
point of separation between the public water system and a private service or
private distribution system or at a point of metering.
      CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water that creates a
potential or actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of
hazardous or toxic substances or waterborne health hazards in the form of
physical or chemical contaminants or biological organisms and pathogens.
      CROSS-CONNECTION. Any unprotected actual or potential connection or
structural arrangement between the public water system and a consumer's water
system or any other source or system through which it is possible to introduce
any contamination or pollution other than the intended potable water with which
the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable
sections, swivel or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent
devices through which or because of which "backflow" can or may occur are
considered to be cross-connections.
      CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL COORDINATOR. The employee designated by the
city's Public Works Director to administer this section.
      DEGREE OF HAZARD. Derived from the evaluation of conditions within a
system and can be classified as either a "pollution" (non-health) or a
"contamination" (health) hazard.
      DOUBLE-CHECK DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed assembly composed of
a line-size approved double-check valve assembly with a specific bypass water
meter and a meter-sized approved double-check valve assembly. The meter shall
register in cubic feet or U.S. gallons accurately for only very low rates of
flow and shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This assembly shall
only be used to protect against a pollution (i.e., non-health) hazard. Such a
device must be on the USCFCCHR and the ASSE approval lists.
      DOUBLE-CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two independently
acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off valves
attached at each end of the assembly and fitted with properly located test
cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a pollution (i.e.,
non-health) hazard. Such a device must be on the USCFCCHR and the ASSE approval
lists.
      DUAL CHECK VALVE. A type of backflow device manufactured pursuant to ASSE
Standard 1024.
      ENCLOSURE. A physical above-ground or below-ground apparatus that
provides protection to backflow assemblies. An above-ground apparatus shall
meet ASSE 1060 specifications. A below-ground apparatus shall meet current
North Carolina Plumbing Code specifications.
      FINISH GRADE. Any surface that has been cut or built to the elevation
requested, indicated, or approved for that point. The surface elevation of a
lawn, driveway, flower bed, patio, or other improved surface after completion
of grading operations is considered finish grade.
      FIRE LINE. A system of pipes and equipment used to supply water in an
emergency for extinguishing fire.
      HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a
physical, chemical, biological, pathogenic, or toxic nature to the public water
system or consumer's water system to such a degree or intensity that there
would be a danger to health. Examples of waterborne health hazards include but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Physical - Radioisotopes/radio-nuclides;
         (b)   Chemical - Lead, mercury, and other heavy metals, organic
compounds, and other toxins and hazardous substances; and
         (c)   Biological - Pathogenic micro-organisms like cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera, and E. coli.
      HEALTH AGENCY. The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality
("NCDEQ") and/or the Randolph County Health Department.
      IMMINENT HAZARD. A condition that presents a substantial and immediate
risk to the public health.
      INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution that may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health or non-health hazard if introduced into the
public water system or a consumer's water system. Such fluids may include, but
are not limited to, process waters, chemicals in fluid form, acids and alkalis,
oils, gases, etc.
      INDUSTRIAL PIPING SYSTEM. A system used by the consumer for transmission,
conveyance, or storage of any fluid, solid, or gaseous substance other than an
approved water supply. Such a system would include all pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used to produce, convey, or
store substances that are or may be polluted or contaminated.
      INTERCONNECTION. Any system of piping or other arrangement whereby the
public water system is connected directly to a sewer, drain, conduit, pool,
heat exchanger, storage reservoir, or other device that contains or could
contain sewage or other waste or substance which would be capable of imparting
contamination to the public water system.
      IRRIGATION SEASON. The time of year that irrigation is used in the City
of Asheboro. For the purposes of this section, the irrigation season is March 1
through September 30 of each year.
      IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any system supplying dry land with water by means of
ditches, streams, piping, and appurtenances.
      ISOLATION. The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer's
water system by installing approved backflow prevention assemblies. Disclaimer:
The City of Asheboro may make suggestions as to the usage of isolation devices/
assemblies, but the city does not assume or have responsibility whatsoever for
such installations.
      ISOLATION ASSEMBLY. A backflow prevention assembly required by the North
Carolina Plumbing Code that is installed within a private plumbing or
distribution system to isolate a localized hazard from the remainder of the
private system.
      LEAD FREE. A material content in the backflow preventers of less than or
equal to 0.25%.
      NON-HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the quality of the
public water system or the consumer's water system. If introduced into the
public water system, a non-health hazard could be a nuisance to water customers
but would not adversely affect human health.
      OWNER. Any natural or legal person that has legal title to, or permission
or obligation to operate or inhabit, a property upon which a cross-connection
inspection is to be made or upon which a cross-connection is present.
      PERMANENT IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any system supplying dry land with water by
means of piping and appurtenances below ground or finish grade that is not
readily accessible.
      POINT OF DELIVERY. Generally, at the backside of the meter, adjacent to
the public street where the city's water distribution mains are located. The
consumer shall be responsible for all water piping and control devices located
on the consumer's side of the point of delivery.
      POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree that
does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect the aesthetic qualities of such waters for domestic
use.
      POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the quality of the
public water system or the consumer's water system but which would not
constitute a health or a system hazard. The maximum degree or intensity of
pollution to which the potable water system could be degraded under this
definition would cause a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could
cause minor damage to the system or its appurtenances.
      POTABLE WATER. For the purposes of this section, water from any source
that has been approved for human consumption by the NCDEQ.
      PRESSURE TYPE VACUUM BREAKER. An assembly containing an independently
operating internally loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded
air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly
is to be equipped with properly located test cocks and tightly closing shutoff
valves attached at each end of the assembly. This assembly is designed to
protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant) under a back siphonage
condition only.
      PUBLIC POTABLE WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned water system
operated as a public utility under a current NCDEQ permit to supply water for
public consumption or use. This system will include all sources, facilities,
and appurtenances between the source and the point of delivery such as valves,
pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and
appurtenances used to produce, convey, treat, or store potable water for public
consumption or use.
      READILY ACCESSIBLE. Access is available without the need to remove
obstructions or items.
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.
         (a)   An assembly containing within its structure a minimum of two
independently acting, approved check valves together with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent, pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and at the same time below the first check valve. The
first check valve reduces the supply pressure to a predetermined amount so
that, during normal flow and at cessation of normal flow, the pressure between
the checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either
check valve, the pressure differential relief valve, by discharge to
atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the checks less than
the supply pressure.
         (b)   The unit shall include tightly closing shutoff valves located at
each end of the assembly and each assembly shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks. The assembly is designed to protect against a health hazard
(i.e., contaminant). Such a device must be on the USCFCCHR and the ASSE
approval lists.
      REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY. A specially designed
assembly composed of a line-size approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly with a specific bypass water meter and a meter-sized
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly. The meter
shall register in cubic feet or U.S. gallons accurately for only very low rates
of flow and shall show a registration for all rates of flow. This assembly
shall be used to protect against a health hazard (i.e., contaminant). Such a
device must be on the USCFCCHR and the ASSE approval lists.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the
public water system (i.e., where the city loses control over the water at its
point of delivery to the consumer's water system).
      UNAPPROVED WATER SUPPLY. A water supply that has not been approved for
human consumption by the NCDEQ.
      USED WATER. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer's water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   (D)   Rights of entry and access to information.
      (1)   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification,
authorized representatives from the city shall have the right to enter any
building, structure, or premises during normal business hours, or at any time
during the event of an emergency, to perform any duty imposed by this section.
Those duties may include sampling and testing of water or inspections and
observations of all piping systems connected to the public water system. Where
a consumer has security measures in force that would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into the consumer's premises, the
consumer shall make necessary arrangements with the security personnel so that,
upon presentation of suitable identification, city personnel will be permitted
to enter without delay for the purpose of performing their specific
responsibilities under this section. Refusal to allow entry for these purposes
may result in discontinuance of water service until the requested right-of-
entry has been granted.
      (2)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the city any pertinent
information regarding the consumer's water system on such property where cross-
connections and backflow are deemed possible.
   (E)   Elimination of cross-connections and the degree of hazard.
      (1)   When cross-connections are found to exist, the city will provide
written notice to an owner, an owner's agent, an occupant, or a tenant, as
applicable, of the requirement to comply with the cross-connection and backflow
prevention ordinance within the time limit established by the city. The degree
of protection required and maximum time allowed for compliance will be based
upon the potential degree of hazard to the public water system. In cases where
the city identifies an existing health hazard attributable to a cross-
connection, water service to the structure or premises where such a cross-
connection is found may be terminated without any delay unless an air gap is
immediately provided or the cross-connection is immediately eliminated.
Otherwise, subject only to the specific backflow prevention assemblies listed
in division (H) for certain facilities, the maximum time limits are as follows:
         (a)    Cross-connections with private wells or other auxiliary water
supplies require immediate disconnection;
         (b)   All facilities that pose a potential health hazard to the public
water system must have a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly within 30 days of notification by the city; and
         (c)   All industrial and commercial facilities not identified as a
health hazard shall be considered non-health hazard facilities. All non-health
hazard facilities must install a double-check valve assembly within 60 days of
notification by the city.
      (2)   Water mains served by the city, but not maintained by the city,
shall be considered cross-connections and the degree of hazard will be
determined by the city. The required degree of protection shall be based upon
the city's determination of the degree of hazard.
      (3)   In cases where a facility has been secured by the consumer and the
ability of city personnel to inspect the facility has been restricted (e.g.,
classified research and development facilities or federal government property)
to the point that access to every portion of the consumer's water system is too
limited to allow a complete evaluation of the degree of hazard associated with
the private water system, an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly shall be required as a minimum level of protection.
      (4)   No person shall fill special use tanks or tankers containing
pesticides, pathogenic micro-organisms, fertilizers, other toxic chemicals, or
their residues from the public water system except at a city approved location
equipped with an air gap or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly properly installed on the public water system.
   (F)   Installation of assemblies.
      (1)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the specifications furnished by the city and/or in the latest edition of
the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      (2)   All new construction plans and specifications, when required by the
North Carolina Plumbing Code and/or the NCDEQ, shall be made available to the
city for review and approval, including a determination by the city of the
degree of hazard.
      (3)   Ownership, testing, and maintenance of the assembly shall be the
responsibility of the consumer.
      (4)   All double-check valve assemblies shall be installed in a location
in which no portion of the assembly can become submerged in any substance under
any circumstance. Pit and/or below-grade installations are prohibited.
      (5)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
installed according to their listing and in a location in which no portion of
the assembly can become submerged in any substance under any circumstance. Pit
and/or below-grade installations are prohibited.
      (6)   Any backflow assembly not approved by the city shall be replaced
with an assembly that is approved by the city.
      (7)   No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed in a traffic
area or city right-of-way unless pre-approval is obtained in writing from the
city's Public Works Director or the Cross-Connection Control coordinator.
      (8)   The consumer is responsible for ensuring that a backflow prevention
assembly is working properly upon installation and shall also ensure that the
following information is provided to the city within ten business days after a
reduced pressure principle assembly (RP), double-check valve assembly (DCVA),
pressure vacuum breaker (PVB), double-check-detector assembly (DCDA), or
reduced pressure principle detector assembly (RPDA) is installed at a facility:
         (a)   Facility name;
         (b)   Complete physical address of the facility where the assembly is
located;
         (c)   Telephone number and email address, if available, for the
facility where the assembly is located;
         (d)   Name of the owner of the real property where the assembly is
located;
         (e)   Property owner's complete address, if different from the
facility address;
         (f)   Property owner's telephone number and email address, if
available;
         (g)   Description of the assembly's location at the facility (e.g.,
hotbox, mechanical room, inside structure, vault, etc.);
         (h)   Date of new installation of assembly;
         (i)   Identity of the installer who installed the assembly,
specifically including the installer's name, the plumbing company represented,
the plumber's license number, and the installer's complete address, telephone
number, and email, if available;
         (j)   The type of assembly (i.e., RP, DCVA, PVB, DCDA, and RPDA);
         (k)   The name of the manufacturer of the assembly along with the
model number, serial number, and size of the assembly;
         (l)   The orientation of the assembly;
         (m)   The type of test performed (e.g., domestic, irrigation,
commercial, pool);
         (n)   Passing test results/report;
         (o)   Date of the test;
         (p)   Tester signature and date of submittal;
         (q)   Line pressure;
         (r)   Any repairs or replacement of the assembly; and
         (s)   A passing designation for the assembly status.
      (9)   When it is not possible to interrupt water service, provisions
shall be made for a parallel installation of backflow prevention assemblies.
The city will not accept an unprotected bypass around a backflow assembly.
      (10)   Upon notification by the city, the consumer shall install the
appropriate containment assembly within a time frame that complies with the
following requirements:
         (a)   An imminent hazard must be corrected immediately;
         (b)   A health hazard must be corrected within 30 days; and
         (c)   A non-health hazard must be corrected within 60 days.
      (11)   Following installation, all RP, DCVA, PVB, DCDA, and RPDA are
required to be tested by a certified backflow prevention assembly tester within
ten business days.
      (12)   Backflow prevention assembly installations with exposure to cold
weather shall comply with ASSE 1060 specifications. Backflow prevention
assemblies installed for lawn irrigation shall be designed for removal during
cold weather exposure or installed in compliance with ASSE 1060 specifications.
      (13)   All backflow preventers installed in order to comply with this
section shall be lead free.
   (G)   Testing and repair of assemblies.
      (1)   With the exception of RDC assemblies maintained by the city at its
expense, every backflow prevention assembly shall be tested by a certified
backflow prevention assembly tester upon installation and annually thereafter
unless a different frequency is established by the city. The consumer is
responsible for all expenses and fees charged by the certified backflow
prevention assembly tester for testing and documenting the results of the
required backflow prevention assembly test.
      (2)   The certified backflow prevention assembly tester conducting a test
required by this section must submit the test reports/records for such backflow
prevention assembly testing to the city within ten business days of the date
upon which the required testing was completed.
      (3)   Regardless of whether the need for repairs is discovered because of
required testing or because of a routine inspection by the consumer or the
city, if a determination is made that repairs to a backflow prevention assembly
are required, such repairs must be completed without unnecessary delay and
within a definite time frame that will be set in accordance with the degree of
hazard. The time period allowed for such repairs shall not exceed seven days
for a health hazard facility and shall not exceed 21 days for a non-health
hazard facility.
      (4)   Unless a different frequency is specifically established by the
city for an identified facility, all backflow prevention assemblies with test
cocks are required to be tested annually.
      (5)   All certified backflow prevention assembly testers must obtain and
employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment that is, on an annual basis,
checked for accuracy, calibrated as necessary, and certified to the city on an
annual basis as to such accuracy/calibration. The calibration method used by
the tester must meet the minimum standards established in the administrative
guidelines adopted by the city's Public Works Division.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow
prevention assembly tester to submit any record to the city that is false or
incomplete in any material respect.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow
prevention assembly tester to fail to submit to the city any record that is
required by this section.
      (8)   Any consumer that has not submitted the required backflow
prevention assembly test report(s) to the city via a certified backflow
prevention assembly tester before the due date is non-compliant and subject to
the enforcement actions specified in this section.
      (9)   Upon providing the notice specified in this division, any due date
identified in the cross-connection control program administrative guidelines
established by the city's Public Works Division may be changed in order to make
the program more effective and/or efficient. Notice of a change in a due date
shall be provided to the consumer no less than two months before the due date
currently identified in the cross-connection control program guidelines. This
notice may be provided by either phone, email, or letter. A change in the due
date shall not increase the number of required tests in a 12-month period
unless otherwise required by this section.
      (10)   The annual due date for testing involving irrigation systems shall
fall within the irrigation season.
   (H)   Approved backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the
service line to any premises/facility identified by the city as having a
potential for backflow. All assemblies and installations shall be subject to
inspections and approval by the city. The city has identified the following
specific types of facilities as having a potential for backflow of non-potable
water into the public water system. Therefore, as indicated below, specific
backflow prevention assemblies are required for the facilities that have been
evaluated as to the degree of hazard associated with the respective premises
listed in this division. Other types of facilities that are not listed below
may also be required to install approved backflow prevention assemblies if
determined necessary by the city. As a minimum requirement, all commercial and
mixed use facilities will be required to install a double-check valve assembly,
unless otherwise listed below. For purposes of this division, the following
abbreviations are used: Double-Check Detector Assembly (DCDA), Double-Check
Valve Assembly (DCVA), Fire Department Connection (FDC), Reduced Pressure
Principle Detector Assembly (RPDA), Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (RP),
and Residential Dual Check (RDC).
      (1)   Automotive services stations, dealerships, etc. - RP;
      (2)   Auxiliary water supply:
         (a)   Approved public/private water supply - RP;
         (b)   Unapproved public/private water supply - RP; and
         (c)   Used water and industrial fluids - RP.
      (3)   Bakeries:
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard - RP.
      (4)   Beauty shops/barber shops:
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard - RP.
      (5)   Beverage bottling plants - RP;
      (6)   Breweries, wineries, and distilleries - RP;
      (7)   Canneries, packing houses, and rendering plants - RP;
      (8)   Commercial car wash facilities - RP;
      (9)   Commercial greenhouses - RP;
      (10)   Commercial sales establishments (e.g., department stores, malls,
etc.):
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard - RP.
      (11)   Concrete/asphalt plants - RP;
      (12)   Dairies and cold storage plants - RP;
      (13)   Dye works - RP;
      (14)   Film laboratories - RP;
      (15)   Fire systems two inches and smaller in size:
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard (booster pumps, foam, antifreeze solution, FDC,
etc.) - RPDA.
      (16)   Fire systems larger than two inches in size:
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCDA; and
         (b)   Health hazard (booster pumps, foam, antifreeze solution, FDC,
etc.) - RPDA.
      (17)   Fire trucks - RP;
      (18)   Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitariums, morgues, mortuaries,
autopsy facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics, and
veterinary hospitals - RP;
      (19)   Laundries and dry cleaners - RP;
      (20)   Lawn irrigation systems - RP;
      (21)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing, and fabricating plants
- RP;
      (22)   Mixed use business and residential occupancy:
         (a)   Non-health hazard - DCVA; and
         (b)   Health hazard - RP.
      (23)   Mobile home parks - RP;
      (24)   Motels and hotels - RP;
      (25)   Oil and gas production, storage, transmission, distribution, and
sales (bulk wholesale or retail) facilities/properties - RP;
      (26)   Pest control (exterminating and fumigating) - RP;
      (27)   Power plants - RP;
      (28)   Restaurants - RP;
      (29)   Residential (single-family homes and individually metered
duplexes, triplexes, multiplexes, apartments, townhouses, condominiums, etc.) -
RDC or RP;
      (30)   Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities - RP
      (31)   Sand and gravel plants - RP;
      (32)   Schools and colleges - RP;
      (33)   Sewage and storm drain facilities - RP;
      (34)   Structures not otherwise listed in this division with unprotected
cross-connections - RP;
      (35)   Swimming pools - RP; and
      (36)   Yard hydrant - RP.
   (I)   Unless written notice to the contrary is provided by the Public Works
Director or the Cross-Connection Control Coordinator on the basis of the city's
most recent evaluation of the potential degree of hazard posed to the public
water system at a facility, all existing backflow prevention assemblies
installed with the approval of the city prior to the initial effective date of
the City of Asheboro Cross-Connection Control and Backflow Prevention Ordinance
shall be allowed to remain in service so long as such assemblies are
maintained, tested, and repaired in compliance with this section and all other
applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations, and guidelines. However,
if such an existing assembly must be replaced, or if there is an event of
proven water theft through an unmetered source, the consumer shall be required
to install an approved backflow prevention assembly that is compliant with the
current standards found in all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations, and guidelines.
   (J)   Connections with unapproved sources of supply.
      (1)   No person shall connect or cause to be connected to the public
water system any supply of water not approved by the NCDEQ. Any connections
allowed by the city must be in conformance with the backflow prevention
requirements of this section.
      (2)   In the event of contamination or pollution of the public water
system or of the consumer's water system, the consumer shall notify the city
immediately in order that appropriate measures may be taken to overcome and
eliminate the contamination or pollution.
   (K)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The consumer or person in charge of any premises/facility found to
be in violation of the provisions of this section shall be notified in writing
with regard to the corrective action(s) to be taken. Notices of violation and/
or citations may be issued by the city's Public Works Director or his designee.
      (2)   Such notice shall be served by personal delivery, registered mail,
or certified mail to the consumer or person in charge and shall explain the
violation(s) and give the time period within which the violation(s) must be
corrected. The time period set to correct a violation shall not exceed 30 days
after receiving notice unless otherwise specified by division (E) above.
      (3)   In the event a consumer is found in violation of this section and
fails to correct the violation in a timely manner, including the payment of any
civil penalty or fees assessed under this section, water service may be
terminated without additional notice. Water service shall be reestablished when
the violation is corrected and any applicable civil penalties and other
required fees are paid in full with good funds.
      (4)   Civil penalties imposed under this section may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within the prescribed period of time after service of the citation
informing the offender of the incident(s) of noncompliance, the remedial action
required to abate the violation(s), and the amount of the assessed civil
penalty.
      (5)   When determining the amount of a civil penalty to be assessed for
violating the City of Asheboro Cross-Connection Control and Backflow Prevention
Ordinance, the Public Works Director shall act in accordance with the following
guidelines:
         (a)   Unprotected cross-connections involving a private water system
that create a health hazard are subject to a civil penalty of up to $1,000 per
day, not to exceed $10,000.
         (b)   Unprotected cross-connections involving a private water system
that create a non-health hazard are subject to a civil penalty of up to $500
per day, not to exceed $5,000.
         (c)   The failure of a consumer or a certified backflow prevention
assembly tester to properly submit any record required by this section may
result in a civil penalty of up to $500 per violation.
         (d)   The submission of falsified reports/records may result in a
civil penalty of up to $500 per violation.
         (e)   In the event a certified backflow prevention assembly tester
fails to submit any record within the timeframe required by this section or
fails to exercise the same degree of care, skill, and judgment in the
performance of services to the citizens of the city as is ordinarily provided
by a similar professional under the same or similar circumstances, then the
Public Works Director is authorized to remove the tester from the list of
available certified testers for a period of up to 12 calendar months.
         (f)   If a certified backflow prevention assembly tester submits
falsified records to the city, the Public Works Director is authorized to
remove the tester from the list of available certified testers for an
indefinite period of time.
         (g)   The failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies
in compliance with this section may result in a civil penalty of up to $200 per
day.
      (6)   Any assessed civil penalty must be paid in full within 30 days of
receipt by the consumer or person in charge of the premises/facility identified
in the citation listing the violation(s) and assessing the corresponding civil
penalties.
      (7)   Each individual violation of the City of Asheboro Cross-Connection
Control and Backflow Prevention Ordinance shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
      (8)   Requests by the offender for an extension of time in which to abate
the violation(s) and/or pay the assessed civil penalty must be submitted in
writing to the Public Works Director within the time frame stated in the notice
of violation for the abatement of the violation and/or the payment of the
assessed civil penalty.
      (9)   The city may immediately discontinue water service to any consumer
if the Public Works Director makes either of the following findings:
         (a)   The consumer or person in charge of the premises/facility is
noncompliant with the provisions of this section, neglects the responsibility
to correct a violation after having been given notice thereof, and such
noncompliance constitutes or presents an imminent hazard to the public health,
safety, and welfare; or
         (b)   The consumer or person in charge of the premises/facility has a
water connection to the public water system that, in the judgment of the Public
Works Director, presents an imminent hazard to the public health, safety, and
welfare.
      (10)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, the
provisions of the City of Asheboro Cross-Connection Control and Backflow
Prevention Ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (L)   Adjudicatory hearings and appeals from enforcement actions taken
pursuant to this section shall be made in accordance with the following
procedures:
      (1)   Adjudicatory hearings.
         (a)   A consumer subject to an enforcement action taken pursuant to
this section, including without limitation the disconnection of water service
and/or the assessment of a civil penalty, has the right to an adjudicatory
hearing with the City of Asheboro Water Resources Director. In order to
exercise this right, the consumer must transmit to the Water Resources
Director's office a written demand identifying the specific issues to be
contested. This written demand must be delivered to the Water Resources
Director's office and accepted by the Water Resources Director, or a designee,
within 30 calendar days of the date of service of the notice/citation upon
which the hearing request is based. Unless such written demand is properly
delivered within the time frame specified herein, the action stated in the
notice/citation served on the consumer is final and binding.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a properly filed demand for an adjudicatory
hearing, the Water Resources Director, or the Director's designee in the Water
Resources Division, shall hold a hearing within 15 calendar days of the date
upon which the written demand for an adjudicatory hearing was received in the
Water Resources Director's office. After holding the hearing, the Water
Resources Director, or the Director's designee, shall have 15 calendar days to
prepare a written decision resolving the contested issues. Such a written
decision shall be transmitted to the consumer by means of first class, postage
pre-paid, United States mail to the consumer's address of record with the City
of Asheboro Water and Sewer Utility.
      (2)   Appeal hearings.
         (a)   A decision by the Water Resources Director, or the Director's
designee, may be appealed to the City Manager by any party to the adjudicatory
hearing. In order to appeal such a decision, the party seeking to file an
appeal must transmit to the City Manager's office a written demand identifying
the basis for the appeal. This written demand must be delivered to the City
Manager's office and accepted by the City Manager, or a designee, within 30
calendar days of the date on which the written decision by the Water Resources
Director, or the Director's designee, was placed in the custody of the United
States Postal Service for delivery to the consumer. Unless such written demand
is properly delivered to the City Manager's office within the time frame
specified herein, the decision by the Water Resources Director, or the
Director's designee, shall be final and binding.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a properly filed appeal, the City Manager shall
hold a hearing within 30 calendar days of the date upon which the written
demand for an appeal was received in the City Manager's office. After holding
the hearing, the City Manager shall have 15 calendar days to prepare a written
decision. The City Manager's written decision shall be transmitted to all of
the parties to the appeal by means of first class, postage pre-paid, United
States mail. The City Manager's written decision shall be final and binding.
(Ord. 11 ORD 4-20, passed 4-9-20)
SERVICE BEYOND CITY LIMITS
§ 50.055 CUSTOMERS SUBJECT TO CITY REGULATIONS.
   All water service furnished by the city to persons outside of the city
limits shall be subject to the regulations and provisions of this subchapter
and of all applicable provisions of this chapter, and all such persons shall be
deemed to have agreed, as a condition to such service, to be governed by the
provisions hereof and all other regulations adopted by the City Council for the
maintenance, control and protection of the city water system and all
connections thereto.
('69 Code, § 23-32)
§ 50.056 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All applications for connection with the city water system, for
property situated outside of the city limits, shall be made to the city upon
blanks provided by the city. Each application shall specify the name of the
person by whom the application is made; the location of the property for which
the connection is desired; the size of service proposed to be connected with
the city water system; the person by whom the work is to be done; and such
other or additional information as may be required. Each applicant shall agree
in his application to be governed by all regulations made by the City Council
for the control, maintenance and protection of the city water system in force
at the time such application is made or at any time thereafter.
   (B)   Each application shall be submitted to the city to grant a permit for
the connection or connections applied for. All applicants for connections with
any water main or system outside the city limits, which is connected with the
city water system, shall make application as provided for herein; provided,
that this shall apply only to water mains or pipes owned by the city, or
concerning which the city has a contract with the owner or owners thereof, and
that no connection or tapping shall be made with any main or pipe outside of
the city limits, except such as are owned by the city or with which it has
contract as aforesaid.
('69 Code, § 23-33)
§ 50.057 EXTENSIONS TO THE CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   Extensions to the city water system shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The water mains, fixtures and installations and the connection of such
system to the city water system, shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter and the work shall be done in as full and ample manner as if the system
or connection shall be constructed under the supervision, direction and control
of the Water Resources Director at the expense of the applicant;
   (B)   All repairs to such system, its mains, pipes, connections, fixtures
and meters shall be under the control, direction and supervision of the Water
Resources Director and shall be made at the expense of the owners or developers
during a one-year warranty after completion.
   (C)   All risks shall be assumed by the applicant and the owners of the
property supplied with water and the city shall not be responsible for any
damage or injury to persons or property by reason of such water system, its
construction, maintenance or repairs;
   (D)   The city shall not be liable to anyone for failure to supply water or
for the character thereof;
   (E)   The water system together with the fixtures, equipment, easements,
rights and privileges pertaining thereto shall become the property of the city
whenever the system is completed;
   (F)   All water mains in such system shall be not less than six inches in
diameter, except when a smaller size is recommended by the Water Resources
Director or City Engineer and authorized by the City Council;
   (G)   All extensions to the city water system shall be done in accordance
with the city's standard specifications and details and the plans for all
pipes, fixtures, meters and equipment connected therewith shall be approved by
the City Engineer and the appropriate state agency;
   (H)   The city reserves the right to discontinue the service to such system
or to any connection therewith at any time within its discretion; and
   (I)   Such system and all connections therewith shall be governed by the
regulations of the city in force at the time or which shall be in force at any
time thereafter.
('69 Code, § 23-34) (Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-
09, passed 9-10-09)
§ 50.058 WATER METERS.
   (A)   No water shall be supplied to any consumer outside of the city except
through a water meter of a style, pattern and quality approved by the Water
Resources Director. The meter shall be furnished and installed, at the expense
of the consumer, by the city or under its direction and control, and all
repairs shall be made by the city.
   (B)   Each consumer shall be required to have a separate meter; provided,
that one meter may be used for several premises which are the property of the
same owner, and he shall agree to pay for all water consumed by the tenants or
occupants thereof. In case the ownership of one or more of such premises shall
pass to another person, separate meters shall at once be installed.
('69 Code, § 23-35) (Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-
09, passed 9-10-09)
§ 50.059 SPRINKLER SYSTEMS REGULATED.
   With respect to any property outside of the city limits which is equipped
with an automatic sprinkler system connected with the city water system, such
connection shall be made with the standard fire underwriter’s check valves,
with gate valve and pressure gauge, arranged for testing the check valves, and
such connection shall be made in accordance with specifications furnished by
the Water Resources Director and under his or her supervision. Any connections
which do not comply with the aforesaid requirements shall immediately be made
to conform hereto. No water passing through the connections made for such
purpose shall be used for any purpose other than to operate sprinkler system.
In the event of the failure of any person to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the city shall, after five days notice, disconnect the premises of
such person from the city water system.
('69 Code, § 23-36) (Ord., passed 6-8-59; Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-
07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-09, passed 9-10-09)
WATER RATES 
§ 50.065 RATES WITHIN CITY.
   The minimum monthly charge, regardless of the actual number of days within
the usage period indicated on a bill, for the water made available to a non-
bulk customer located within the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro is
$15.89 for water usage in the range of zero to 150 cubic feet. In addition to
the minimum rate prescribed by this section, each customer located within the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro that uses more than 150 cubic feet of
water per monthly billing cycle shall be charged at the rate of $3.13 per 100
cubic feet, or any portion thereof, in excess of 150 cubic feet of water (one
cubic foot of water equals approximately seven and one-half gallons of water).
(‘69 Code, § 23-37) (Ord. 176, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord., passed 9-4-75; Am.
Ord., passed 5-8-80; Am. Ord., passed 12-5-85; Am. Ord., passed 6-26-89; Am.
Ord., passed 9-10-92; Am. Ord. 12-93, passed 12-9-93; Am. Ord. 13- 94, passed
6-23-94; Am. Ord., passed 6-22-95; Am. Ord. 09- 96, passed 6-20-96; Am. Ord.
18-97, passed 11-6-97; Am. Ord. 2-03, passed 2-6-03; Am. Ord. 22- 04, passed 6-
24-04; Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 20 ORD 6-07, passed 6-7-
07; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5- 09; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10;
Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-12, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord. 13 ORD 6-14, passed 6-26-14; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 6-22, passed 6-28-22; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-24, passed 6-27-24)
§ 50.066 RATES FOR CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE CITY.
   The minimum monthly charge, regardless of the actual number of days within
the usage period indicated on a bill, for the water made available to a non-
bulk customer located outside the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro is
$39.73 for water usage in the range of zero to 150 cubic feet. In addition to
the minimum rate prescribed by this section, each customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro that uses more than 150 cubic feet of
water per monthly billing cycle shall be charged at the rate of $7.87 per 100
cubic feet, or any portion thereof, in excess of 150 cubic feet of water (one
cubic foot of water equals approximately seven and one-half gallons of water).
(‘69 Code, § 23-38) (Ord. 176, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord., passed 9-4-75; Am.
Ord., passed 5-8-80; Am. Ord., passed 12-5-85; Am. Ord., passed 6-26-89; Am.
Ord. 12-93, passed 12-9-93; Am. Ord. 13-94, passed 6-23-94; Am. Ord. 09-06,
passed 6-20-96; Am. Ord. 18-97, passed 11-6-97; Am. Ord. 2-03, passed 2-6-03;
Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10; Am.
Ord. 19 ORD 6-12, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord. 13 ORD 6-14, passed 6- 26-14; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 6-22, passed 6-28-22; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-24, passed 6-27-24)
GENERAL SEWER PROVISIONS
§ 50.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer into which is to be conveyed excrement, water from
lavatories, sinks, bath tubs and the like, and other sewage wastes.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer into which is to be conveyed surface, roof and rain
water.
('69 Code, § 23-40)
§ 50.076 TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, tamper or
interfere with any sewer pipe belonging to the city or to remove, break, tamper
with or injure any portion of any manhole, flush tank or any part of the city
sewerage system or any installation thereunto appertaining.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-41) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.077 INJURIOUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No exhaust steam or other injurious products, liquids or substances
shall be allowed to enter any sanitary sewer. In addition to any other penalty
provided for the violation of this section, the City Council may prevent or
discontinue any connection with a sanitary sewer which discharges any liquid or
substance liable to injure the sewer, sewerage disposal plant or equipment or
obstruct the flow of sewage.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-42) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.078 SPECIFIC MATERIALS PROHIBITED IN SANITARY. SEWERS.
   No person whether owner, user, occupant or otherwise, shall cause to be
deposited or discharged into, or permit to be deposited or discharged into any
part of the city sanitary sewer system:
   (A)   Any corrosive, volatile, suffocating, inflammable or explosive liquid,
gas, vapor or material of any kind.
   (B)   Any acid trade waste or effluent from the manufacture of chemicals or
other products in which acid or chemicals are used as a part of the process of
treatment or manufacture. Trade waste of this character, before being
discharged into a sewer, shall be rendered alkaline and shall possess an oxygen
consuming power not exceeding that of the ordinary domestic sewage.
   (C)   Any trade waste containing oily and greasy substances, soap or
saponaceous substances likely to cause accretion on the side of the sewer and
detrimentally affect sedimentation. Such trade waste, before being discharged
into a sewer, shall be passed through efficient and approved traps.
   (D)   Any trade waste containing large quantities of hair or fibre, or
similar substances which may obstruct the sewer or cause undue cleaning of the
components of the treatment works. Such trade waste shall be either screened or
coagulated and settled before being discharged into the sewer system.
   (E)   Any fish offal, garbage, dead animals, or obstructions of any kind, or
the waste product of any abattoir or slaughter house.
   (F)   Any storm roof, surface water or drainage water of any kind,
whatsoever.
   (G)   Any article or substance whatever that is likely to cause the sewerage
system or connections to choke up or become obstructed.
('69 Code, § 23-43)
   (H)   Pollutants prohibited in the city's sewer use and pretreatment
ordinance.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.079 DEPOSITS PROHIBITED IN MANHOLES.
   No substance, either solid or liquid, shall be put
into the public sewers of the city, at manholes, or in any other way than
through a proper connection.
('69 Code, § 23-44)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.080 SEWERS TO BE MAINTAINED IN GOOD REPAIR.
   Whenever any house sewer, house drain or connection with any main sewer or
common drain becomes clogged, broken, out of order or detrimental to the use of
the sewer or other drain, or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner,
agent, occupant or person having charge of any building or premises which is
drained through such defective connection, shall, when directed by the Water
Resources Director or Building Inspector, within five days after notice in
writing, reconstruct or repair such sewer, drain or connection as the condition
thereof may require. Each day thereafter that the defective condition shall be
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation of this section.
('69 Code, § 23-45) (Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-
09, passed 9-10-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 50.090 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make connection with the city
sewerage system until a permit therefor shall have been granted as provided in
this subchapter, and every person is forbidden to make any such connection
under any permit which has expired or been revoked.
('69 Code, § 23-46)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.091 CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY WATER AND. SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   Connection between the public sewer and the property line shall be made by
the Water and Sewer Department or by a developer upon approval by the city.
('69 Code, § 23-47)
§ 50.092 CONNECTION COSTS.
   The charge made for the cost of connection of any premises to the public
sanitary sewer system shall be the responsibility of the owner of such premises
and shall be paid to the city prior to the time such connection is made.
('69 Code, § 23-48) (Ord. passed 8-4-66)
§ 50.093 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT PREREQUISITE TO CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No connection shall be made with sewerage system until the owner of
the premises, or his duly authorized agent, shall have made application to the
city in the manner specified in this subchapter, and the application shall be
made and a written permit granted before any portion of the drainage system of
the house or other connections shall be laid or constructed. The application
shall be made on a blank form provided for that purpose by the city, and shall
state the name of the applicant, the location of the premises, the name of the
licensed person by whom the work is to be done, the size of the house drain,
house sewer, location of branch fitting in house sewer, and the entrance of
main house drain where actual house connection is applied for. Significant
users will require a detailed application as required in the city's sewer use
and pretreatment ordinance.
   (B)   The application shall contain a specific agreement to obey and abide
by any and all resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations that are now, or
may hereafter be passed by the City Council for the protection of the sewerage
system and to restrict, regulate and control the use thereof and the
connections therewith. The application shall also give permission to the
Director of Public Works and other officers of the city to enter the premises
of the applicant at any reasonable time, to look after or attend to anything
connected with the sewerage system or the plumbing connected therewith. The
application shall be filled out in ink and signed by the applicant or his or
her duly authorized agent.
('69 Code, § 23-49)
§ 50.094 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS AND DURATION.
   The application for sewerage connections shall be filed with the city and
approval or disapproval shall be endorsed thereon with reasons therefor if
disapproved, within 24 hours after such application shall have been filed. If
the application is approved within such period of time a permit shall be issued
for the connection or work for which application has been made, and the permit
shall be delivered to the applicant or his or her agent when called for. The
permit shall be written on blank forms provided therefor and shall be granted
upon the condition, which shall be expressed therein, that the city may, at any
time before the completion of the connection or work, revoke or annul the
permit when the work is not being properly executed in accordance with the
regulations and ordinances of the city, and that no party interested shall have
a claim for damages in consequence of the revocation of the permit. The permit
shall become void if the work for which it has been issued shall not be begun
and completed within ten days from date of issue.
('69 Code, § 23-50)
§ 50.095 CONNECTION WITHIN SPECIFIED TIME REQUIRED; TOILET FACILITIES.
   Subject to the provisions of §
50.096, the owners of all property within the city upon which there are located
improvements consisting of any house or building used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, and to which such property public
sanitary sewer facilities of the city are or may become accessible within a
distance of 200 feet thereof shall promptly, and in any case within a period of
120 days after notice from the city, connect to such sewer facilities, in
accordance with the rules and regulations governing the sanitary sewer system
of the city, a suitable water closet toilet and such bath tubs, laboratories,
sinks and waste water drains as there are upon their respective properties in
order that the contents thereof shall empty into such sanitary sewer facilities
of the city.
('69 Code, § 23-51) (Ord. passed 8-4-66)
§ 50.096 SEPTIC TANKS IN LIEU OF SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   Septic tanks will be permitted for a period of ten years after a public
sewer becomes available, or when a city sewer line, as measured from the margin
of the public street right-of-way or permanent sanitary sewer easement within
which the city sewer line is located, is not accessible within 200 feet of the
improvements to be served by the sanitary sewer system, or it is not practical
to install a gravity sewer service line. If at anytime the health officer shall
certify that, in his opinion, such septic tank facilities create a hazard to
the health and welfare of any of the citizens of the city, the owner of such
property shall, within a period of 120 days after notice from the city,
discontinue the use of such septic tank facilities and shall connect the
wastewater lines from the improvements on such properties to the sanitary sewer
system of the city.
(Am. Ord. 15-93, passed 7-8-93; Am. Ord. 48 ORD 10-07, passed 10-4-07; Am. Ord.
23 ORD 04-08, passed 4-10-08)
§ 50.097 TOILET FACILITIES TO BE CONNECTED TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall construct any improvements, as defined in §
50.095, upon property within the city to which public sanitary sewer facilities
of the city are accessible within a distance of 200 feet thereof, without
installing therein and connecting to the public sanitary sewer facilities, a
suitable water closet toilet and other waste and water drains from such
improvements.
('69 Code, § 23-53) (Ord. passed 8-4-66)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.098 NEW IMPROVEMENTS TO BE CONNECTED.
   When at the time of completion of any improvement as defined in §
50.095, public sanitary sewer facilities of the city are not accessible within
a distance of 200 feet from the property upon which such improvements have been
made and thereafter such public sanitary sewer facilities do become accessible
within such distance, the owner of such property shall be required to connect
on to such public sanitary sewer facilities a suitable water closet toilet and
such other waste and water drains as there are serving such improvements in
accordance with the provisions of §
50.095, or shall be required to comply with the provisions of §
50.096, whichever is applicable.
('69 Code, § 23-54) (Ord. passed 8-4-66)
§ 50.099 NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS OF SYSTEM EXTENSIONS.
   Upon completion of any extension of the public sanitary sewer system of the
city, the city shall send official notice to owners of property required by §
50.095 to make connection with such system that such connection shall be made
as provided in this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 23-55) (Ord. passed 8-4-66)
§ 50.100 REFUSAL TO MAKE REQUIRED CONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner whose property or premises is
required by this subchapter to be connected with the city sewerage system to
refuse or neglect to make connection thereto in the manner required by this
subchapter.
('69 Code, § 23-56)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.101 UNAUTHORIZED PRIVIES CONSTITUTE NUISANCES.
   Any person owning a lot accessible to the public sewerage system which
should be connected with such system under the provisions of this subchapter is
forbidden to have, keep or maintain on such premises any water closet, privy or
place for deposit of human excrement which is unconnected with the sewer
system, and any person violating this section shall be guilty of maintaining a
nuisance and, in addition to the penalty prescribed for the violation of this
Code, shall within two days after notice, remove such water closet, privy or
deposit place, and, on failure to do so, then the city may demolish, destroy or
remove such water closet, privy or dumping place at the cost of the owner and
the collection of the cost shall be enforced in the manner provided by law for
the collection of unpaid taxes.
('69 Code, § 23-57)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.102 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to directly or indirectly connect
or permit the connection of any open gutter, cesspool, privy, vault or rain
water conductor to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 23-58) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.103 EXTENSION OF THE SEWER SYSTEM.
   The city sewer system may be extended by a property owner or developer under
the following conditions:
   (A)   The cost of the sewer system extension must be paid for by the owner
or developer.
   (B)   The sewer system must be constructed in accordance with the city's
standard specifications and details.
   (C)   The plans must be approved by the City Engineer and the appropriate
state agency.
   (D)   All construction will be subject to a one-year warranty by the owner
or developer responsible.
   (E)   All water and sewer system extensions will become the property of the
city after completion.
§ 50.104 LOW PRESSURE SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City of Asheboro to utilize and construct
conventional gravity sewer systems in combination with pumping stations and wet
wells. All new development proposals shall adhere to this design requirement.
In the sole discretion of the City Council, a waiver from this requirement may
be granted by the City Council when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the governing board that a low pressure sewer system should be used to solve
wastewater disposal problems for an existing development because, in the sole
judgment of the City Council, a gravity sewer system with pumping stations is
not a feasible solution to the wastewater disposal problem.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter pertaining to the municipal sanitary
sewer system have been enacted in order to create a regulatory framework that
addresses the requirements of a conventional gravity sewer system. Unless the
context clearly requires otherwise, the provisions of this chapter shall be
applied to the fullest extent possible to properly authorized low pressure
sewer systems that are operated and controlled by the city. If a conflict
develops between the provisions of this section and any other provision in this
chapter, the regulation prescribed by this section shall be the controlling
authority in cases where a low pressure sewer system is at issue.
   (C)   Within an existing development that has been approved by the City
Council for a low pressure sewer system, the owner of a lot may connect to the
city maintained low pressure sewer system only after applying for and receiving
a sewer service connection permit from the City of Asheboro Engineering
Department. In order to properly apply for such a permit, the property owner
must complete an application packet developed by the city and available in the
Engineering Department. This packet shall include, by way of illustration and
not limitation, an application form and an easement agreement granting a sewer
easement to the city over an area described by metes and bounds on a plat of
survey procured at the applicant’s expense. This executed easement is needed in
order to provide city personnel and/or contractors with lawful authorization to
enter the lot to install and maintain the needed infrastructure. Once all of
the requested information is completed, executed, submitted and accepted by the
Engineering Department, a sewer service connection permit will be issued. The
city, and only the city or its contractors, will perform the installation of
the grinder pump station as a turnkey job.
   (D)   The sewer service connection permit will not be issued until a fee of
$10,500 is paid to the city in order to reimburse the city for costs associated
with the city’s installation of a grinder pump station and other infrastructure
needed to connect the applicant’s structure to the low pressure sewer system.
After the installation is complete, a $20 maintenance fee will be added as a
surcharge to the customer’s monthly water/sewer bill, and this monthly
surcharge is to be paid in addition to any other charges that appear on the
customer’s bill in accordance with the provisions found in other sections of
this chapter. The monthly revenue realized from the surcharge imposed on every
customer served by the low pressure sewer system will be placed in a Grinder
Pump Maintenance Reserve Fund that shall be used exclusively for paying costs
associated with the repair and maintenance of the low pressure sewer system.
   (E)   In addition to the sewer main, the section of the low pressure sewer
system that will be maintained by the city includes the small diameter force
main from the street right-of-way line to the grinder pump wet well, the
grinder pump, valves and valve boxes on the small diameter force main, the
grinder pump electrical panel, and associated appurtenances. However, the
gravity service line from the structure to the grinder pump wet well,
electrical connections to the grinder pump panel, and any generators connected
to the grinder pump power supply are not included with the city-provided
maintenance program. These non-covered items are the sole responsibility of the
property owner.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, customers shall
be subject to the following rules and regulations pertaining to negligence or
misuse of the system/infrastructure:
      (1)   The customer shall bear the full cost of repairs to the grinder
pump and the associated infrastructure that is attributable to negligence or
misuse on the part of the customer. Negligence or misuse includes, by way of
illustration and not limitation, the placing of the following items in the
sewer system:
         (a)   Glass;
         (b)   Metal;
         (c)   Gravel, sand (including aquarium stone), and coffee grinds;
         (d)   Seafood shells;
         (e)   Socks, rags, or cloths;
         (f)   Plastic;
         (g)   Sanitary napkins or tampons;
         (h)   Disposable diapers;
         (i)   Kitty litter;
         (j)   Explosives;
         (k)   Flammable materials;
         (l)   Lubricating oil, grease, cooking oil, paint;
         (m)   Strong chemicals;
         (n)   Gasoline or diesel fuel; and
         (o)   Stormwater runoff.
      (2)   When a customer engages in negligence or misuse of the grinder
pump, and the city or its contractor has to repair the resulting damage, the
full cost of such repairs shall be billed to the customer as a charge on the
next monthly water/sewer bill. Such a charge is subject to collection in the
same manner as any other charge invoiced on a customer’s bill for services
rendered by the city’s water/sewer utility.
(Ord. 36 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 6-22, passed 6-28-22; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-24, passed 6-27-24)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 50.110 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   For the privilege of discharging into the wastewater disposal system,
a service charge is hereby imposed upon and shall be collected from all users.
Except as provided in §§
50.111,
50.112,
50.115, and division (D) below, the service charge established and collected as
consideration for the privilege of using the wastewater disposal system shall
be based on the amount of water such a person uses from the city water supply
system.
   (B)   The minimum monthly sanitary sewer service charge, regardless of the
actual number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, for a
customer located inside the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro is $23.84
for water usage in the range of zero to 150 cubic feet of water used from the
city water supply system. In addition to the minimum sanitary sewer service
rates prescribed by this division (B), any customer located inside the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro that uses more than 150 cubic feet of
water per monthly billing cycle shall be charged for sanitary sewer service at
the rate of $4.70 per 100 cubic feet of water, or any portion thereof, used in
excess of 150 cubic feet.
   (C)   The minimum monthly sanitary sewer service charge, regardless of the
actual number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, for a
customer located outside the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro is $59.60
for water usage in the range of zero to 150 cubic feet of water used from the
city water supply system. In addition to the minimum sanitary sewer service
rates prescribed by this division (C), any customer located outside the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro that uses more than 150 cubic feet of
water per monthly billing cycle shall be charged for sanitary sewer service at
the rate of $11.75 per 100 cubic feet of water, or any portion thereof, used in
excess of 150 cubic feet.
   (D)   The following fees for service shall be charged to customers who are
connected solely to the municipal sanitary sewer system and, therefore, are
served by the utility only and exclusively as customers of the sanitary sewer
system.
      (1)   In those situations where the city deems it practical to meter the
wastewater discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer system, the following
rates shall be charged for municipal sanitary sewer service:
         (a)   Customers inside the city limits. Regardless of the actual
number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, the minimum monthly
sanitary sewer service charge per metered residential dwelling or non-
residential enterprise located inside the corporate limits of the City of
Asheboro and connected solely to the municipal sanitary sewer system shall be
$23.37 for any quantity of wastewater in the range of 0 to 150 cubic feet that
is discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer system. In addition to the
minimum sanitary sewer service rate prescribed by the immediately preceding
sentence, the rate charged for the discharge of wastewater into the municipal
sanitary sewer system in an amount in excess of 150 cubic feet of wastewater
per monthly billing cycle shall be $4.60 per 100 cubic feet of wastewater, or
any portion thereof.
         (b)   Customers outside the city limits. Regardless of the actual
number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, the minimum monthly
sanitary sewer service charge per metered residential dwelling and non-
residential enterprise located outside the corporate limits of the City of
Asheboro and connected solely to the municipal sanitary sewer system shall be
$58.52 for any quantity of wastewater in the range of 0 to 150 cubic feet that
is discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer system. In addition to the
minimum sanitary sewer service rate prescribed by the immediately preceding
sentence, the rate charged for the discharge of wastewater into the municipal
sanitary sewer system in an amount in excess of 150 cubic feet of wastewater
per monthly billing cycle shall be $11.51 per 100 cubic feet of wastewater, or
any portion thereof.
      (2)   In those situations where the city deems it impractical to meter
the wastewater discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer system, the
following rates shall be charged for municipal sanitary sewer service:
         (a)   Customers inside the city limits. Regardless of the actual
number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, the flat rate per
residential dwelling or non-residential enterprise located inside the corporate
limits of the City of Asheboro and connected solely to the municipal sanitary
sewer system is $30.28 for each monthly billing cycle.
         (b)   Customers outside the city limits. Regardless of the actual
number of days within the usage period indicated on a bill, the flat rate per
residential dwelling or non-residential enterprise located outside the
corporate limits of the City of Asheboro and connected solely to the municipal
sanitary sewer system is $75.69 for each monthly billing cycle.
(‘69 Code, § 23-59) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord., passed 9-4-75; Am.
Ord., passed 12-5-85; Am. Ord., passed 6-4-87; Am. Ord., passed 6-26-89; Am.
Ord., passed 9-10-92; Am. Ord. 12-93, passed 12-9-93; Am. Ord. 13-94, passed 6-
23-94; Am. Ord., passed 6-22-95; Am. Ord. 09-96, 6-20-96; Am. Ord. 18-97,
passed 11-6-97; Am. Ord. 2-03, passed 2-6-03; Am. Ord. 22-04, passed 6- 24-04;
Am. Ord. 27 ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 20 ORD 6-07, passed 6-7-07; Am.
Ord. 39 ORD 06-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 06 ORD 2-09, passed 2-5-09; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-12, passed 6-28-12; Am.
Ord. 13 ORD 6-14, passed 6-26-14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 6-22, passed 6-28-22; Am.
Ord. 19 ORD 6-24, passed 6-27-24)
§ 50.111 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES NOT DISCHARGING ALL WATER INTO
CITY SEWERS.
   With respect to all persons using water from the city water supply system
for industrial or commercial purposes and the water so used is not discharged
into the sewerage system of the city, the quantity of water so used and not
discharged into the city sewers shall not be considered when computing the
sewer service charge provided for in §
50.110, but shall be paid for at the rate fixed for water service only;
provided, that the water used for such industrial or commercial purposes and
not discharged into the city sewer system shall be measured by meter or other
approved device, or where, in the opinion of the Water Resources Director, it
is not practical to install a measuring device to determine the quantity of
water not discharged into the city sewers, he or she shall determine, as water
bills are rendered, in such manner and by such method as he or she may
prescribe, the percentage of metered water not discharged into the city sewers,
and for such quantities the sewer service charge shall not be charged.
('69 Code, § 23-60) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed
11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-09, passed 9- 10-09)
§ 50.112 PROPERTIES OTHER THAN INDUSTRIAL OR COMMERCIAL NOT DISCHARGING WATER
INTO CITY SEWERS.
   All persons using water from the city water supply system for purposes other
than commercial or industrial, such as the watering of lawns whether they be
private or commercial, and where the water so used is not discharged into the
sewerage system of the city, the quantity of water so used and not discharged
into the city sewers shall not be considered when computing the sewer service
charge provided for in §
50.110, but shall be paid for at the rate fixed without the addition of such
sewer service charge; provided, that the water used for purposes other than
industrial or commercial and not discharged into the city sewerage system shall
be measured by meter, such meter to be installed and maintained at the request
and the sole expense of the property owner or person claiming such reduction.
('69 Code, § 23-61) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47)
§ 50.113 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   Sewer service charges shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as charges for water, and if not so paid, the combined water and sewer
service shall be discontinued as provided for by §§
50.007.
('69 Code, § 23-62) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47)
§ 50.114 METERS AND MEASURING DEVICES.
   All meters or other measuring devices installed or required to be used under
the provisions of this subchapter shall be under the supervision and control of
the Water Resources Director and shall be installed and maintained at the cost
of the owner of the property. Meters or other devices installed for the purpose
of determining the quantity of water not discharged into the city sewers shall
be kept in repair, whether repairs are necessitated by ordinary wear and tear
or other cause, and bills for repairs made by the city shall be paid by the
persons concerned.
('69 Code, § 23-63) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed
11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-09, passed 9- 10-09)
§ 50.115 PROPERTIES NOT RECEIVING WATER FROM ANY CITY SOURCE.
   All persons using water from a source other than the city water supply
system or using water sold by the city, and who own property connected to the
city sewer system, shall pay a sewer service charge of 100% of the amount of
the charges for water as if the water had been furnished by the city. The owner
of any such property or his or her legal representative, except as hereinafter
provided, shall install and maintain without cost to the city a meter or meters
to measure the quantity of water received from any such source and discharged
into the city sewers. Such meter or meters shall be installed only under the
supervision of and in accordance with the plans and specifications of the city.
Whenever in the opinion of the Water Resources Director it is not practical or
is unduly expensive to install meters or measuring devices, as aforesaid, he or
she shall estimate and determine, in such manner and by such method as he or
she may prescribe, the quantity of water received from any source other than
the city water supply system or water sold by the city and which is discharged
into the city sewer system.
('69 Code, § 23-64) (Ord. 177, passed 7-14-47; Am. Ord., passed 1-5-50; Am.
Ord. 57 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 42 ORD 9-09, passed 9-10-09)
§ 50.116 SPECIAL DISCHARGE RATES.
   (A)   The rate charged for landfill leachate is $1.50 per 100 cubic feet.
   (B)   The following sewer only rate is established for the Seagrove/Ulah
Metropolitan Water District. The minimum monthly sanitary sewer service charge,
regardless of the actual number of days within the usage period indicated on a
bill, shall be $23.84 for any quantity of wastewater in the range of 0 to 150
cubic feet that is discharged into the municipal sanitary sewer system. In
addition to the minimum sanitary sewer service rate prescribed by the
immediately preceding sentence, the rate charged for the discharge of
wastewater into the municipal sanitary sewer system in an amount in excess of
150 cubic feet of wastewater per billing cycle shall be $4.70 per 100 cubic
feet of wastewater, or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-24, passed 6-27-24)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.00.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Keeping of junk restricted
   
51.02   Littering prohibited
   
51.03   Accumulation of trash unlawful
   
51.04   Removal of refuse from vacant lots; notice to owners
   
51.05   Businesses to maintain areas clear of trash and provide receptacles
   
51.06   Transportation of solid waste into city for collection prohibited
   
51.07   Offensive materials not to be brought into or buried in city
City Collection Service
   
51.15   Container requirements
   
51.16   Receptacles for multifamily residential, commercial, and business
enterprises
   
51.17   Containers to be placed at street only on collection days
   
51.18   Removal of empty containers
   
51.19   Liquid materials not to be collected
   
51.20   Containers not to interfere with traffic
   
51.21   Interference with solid waste/ recyclables containers prohibited
   
51.22   Placing of materials for special collection
   
51.23   Materials not subject to collection
   
51.24   Compliance required
Rates and Charges
   
51.35   User charges for commercial sanitation customers
   
51.36   User charges for residential sanitation customers
   
51.37   Transfer station tipping fee
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED.
   No person shall permit to remain for more than ten days on premises owned by
him, or of which he is in possession, any objectionable objects, where such
objects shall be in sight of people on public places, streets and passageways.
('69 Code, § 9-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
§ 51.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be
deposited any litter, rubbish, trash or any like material upon the streets,
sidewalks or other public places, or to throw, drop, or permit to be thrown or
dropped any litter, rubbish, trash or like material from an automobile.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit occupants of
residential premises or merchants, tenants or owners of business establishments
within the city from depositing trash or refuse from such establishments for
regular pick-up in spaces and containers as provided by this chapter.
('69 Code, § 9-2) (Ord. passed 11-10-66)
§ 51.03 ACCUMULATION OF TRASH UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful to permit trash or any kind of filth to accumulate on
any premises, or permit it to accumulate, or to throw any trash or filth on the
streets or any vacant lots.
('69 Code, § 9-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99  
§ 51.04 REMOVAL OF REFUSE FROM VACANT LOTS; NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   (A)   Owners and persons in charge of vacant lots in the city shall maintain
such lots free and clear of debris, trash, decaying matter, refuse, stagnant
water and the like, in which vermin, mosquitoes, flies and other insects or
rats or mice live or breed; and any violation of this section is declared to be
prejudicial to the public health.
   (B)   Any violation of this section is declared to be prejudicial to the
public health and unlawful.
   (C)   If the owner or person in charge of any vacant lot within the city
shall fail to maintain such lot free of debris, trash, decaying matter, refuse,
stagnant water and the like, in which vermin, mosquitoes or other insects or
rats or mice live or breed, within three days after being given written notice
to do so, signed by the city’s code enforcement officer or his/her designee,
the city shall proceed to bring the non-compliant lot into conformance with
this section; provided, however, no such action shall be taken by city forces
until a second notice and an opportunity for the person(s) in default to be
heard has been provided in a manner consistent with the applicable due process
considerations. The expense of such an action by city forces shall be paid by
the person in default.
   (D)   The environmental services department and the code enforcement officer
within the community development division shall have joint responsibility for
enforcing this section. The police department shall render assistance on an as-
needed basis to the municipal departments charged with the primary enforcement
responsibilities for this section.
(‘69 Code, § 9-4) (Ord. 181, passed 9-4-47; Am. Ord. 25 ORD 11-15, passed 11-5-
15)
§ 51.05 BUSINESSES TO MAINTAIN AREAS CLEAR OF TRASH AND PROVIDE RECEPTACLES.  
   (A)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises located within B-1, B-2 or B-3 business
districts as defined in the zoning ordinance and which maintains any paved or
unpaved areas for the use of the public, either for parking or as access area
and incident to the carrying on of the principal business of any such
commercial establishment or premises and which parking or access areas abut or
lie within 50 feet of any public street or other public way, shall keep and
maintain such areas clean and free from trash, litter, rubbish and any
materials liable to be blown, deposited or cast upon such street or other
public way.
   (B)   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas
within the meaning of this section. Such receptacles shall be plainly marked as
trash receptacles and constructed to prevent scattering of any trash, litter,
rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
('69 Code, § 9-5) (Ord. passed 9-8-66)
§ 51.06 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE INTO CITY FOR COLLECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, carry, or in any other
manner transport solid waste into the city from outside the city for the
purpose of leaving or depositing such solid waste for collection by city
forces. A violation of this division is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   For the purpose of interpreting and applying this section, the term
SOLID WASTE, in addition to including any materials that are collected by the
city's Environmental Services Department and regulated elsewhere in this
chapter, is defined as any hazardous or nonhazardous garbage, refuse, sludge,
and any other material that has served its original intended use and has been
discarded.
   (C)   If nonhazardous solid waste transported into the city in violation of
this section is left for collection by or with the acquiescence of an otherwise
lawful customer of the city's Environmental Services Department, and such solid
waste would be subject to collection but for the fact it was transported into
the city in violation of this section, the otherwise lawful customer who placed
or acquiesced in the placement of such solid waste for collection shall be
billed for the collection of the illegally placed solid waste in the same
manner and to the same extent as customers billed for improperly placed waste
material under the provisions of §
51.22(A)(5) and §
51.22(E) of this chapter. If the illegally placed solid waste can be collected
without the use of a knuckle boom truck, the charge for the collection services
will be based on the amount of solid waste actually collected and how many
scoops would have been required to remove such a quantity of solid waste if a
knuckle boom truck had been used.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, recyclable
materials transported to a recycling collection point/facility and solid waste
transported to the city's transfer station are permitted so long as such
materials are delivered and unloaded in accordance with all applicable laws and
regulations, specifically including without limitation the regulations
governing the operations of the recycling center(s) and/or the city's transfer
station.
(‘69 Code, § 9-7) (Ord. passed 10-5-50; Am. Ord. 22 ORD 8-12, passed 8-9-12;
Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 OFFENSIVE MATERIALS NOT TO BE BROUGHT INTO OR BURIED IN CITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to fill any land with, or dump upon any vacant
lot within the city, garbage, dead animals, decaying vegetable matter or any
offensive material; nor shall any of the aforementioned offensive materials be
buried within the city.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 9-8) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
51.99
CITY COLLECTION SERVICE
§ 51.15 CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Containers to be used with the automated garbage collection trucks
shall be provided exclusively by the city and shall be placed within two feet
of a curb and at least four feet from any object, such as fences, utility
poles, mail boxes, and the like. Waste materials shall be placed in a plastic
bag that is properly secured at the top before the materials are placed in the
container provided by the city for use with the automated garbage collection
trucks. If customers desire to dispose of an amount of waste materials that
exceeds the capacity of the container provided by the city, the excess
materials shall be collected in a plastic bag or bags, such a bag is not to
exceed a holding capacity of 32 gallons, and placed within two feet of a curb
and at least four feet from the container provided by the city and any other
object, such as fences, utility poles, mail boxes, and the like. The plastic
bags shall be properly secured at the top. Metal containers shall not be used
in conjunction with the containers provided by the city for use with the
automated garbage collection trucks.
   (B)   These containers provided by the city for use with the automated
garbage collection trucks are the property of the city. Residents are permitted
to use them only as long as they live within the city limits. When a resident
moves, either within the city limits or away, he or she leave the container at
the residence or dwelling where it has been used prior to the move of the
resident. If the move is within the city, another container will be provided at
the new location. Persons who take their containers with them upon moving will
be charged $70.00.
   (C)   The containers provided by the city for use with the automated garbage
collection trucks are warranted against defects. Containers which fail in the
course of normal use will be replaced by the city at no expense to the user.
The warranty does not cover failure resulting from abuse, malicious act(s), or
negligent act(s) by the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of the residence or
dwelling where the container has been placed, including acts committed by
anyone acting on behalf of or with the consent of the owner(s) and/or occupant
(s). For the purpose of interpreting this section, an ACT OF ABUSE shall be
deemed to include, by way of illustration and without limitation, the act of
placing chemicals or hot ashes in the container or overfilling with
construction debris or other weighty refuse. Containers damaged by abuse will
be replaced only upon payment of a $70.00 replacement fee to the city. Nothing
contained in this division (C) shall release a person found to have damaged a
city-owned container from liability for doing so, and the provisions of this
division shall not preclude the city from pursuing a claim for damages and any
other remedy available at law or equity for conduct that is the proximate cause
of damage to city-owned personal property.
(Am. Ord. 34-02, passed 10-10-02; Am. Ord. 64 ORD 12-07, passed 12-6-07)
§ 51.16 RECEPTACLES FOR MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND BUSINESS
ENTERPRISES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee, or
any of them individually of any or every occupied building used for multifamily
residential, commercial, or business purposes within the city to furnish a
container or containers that can be serviced by the city's sanitation trucks.
In the case of multifamily residential, commercial, and business enterprises of
over four units per structure or development, a provision for dumpster-type
disposal shall be provided which conforms to all city codes. All other
multifamily residential, commercial, or business shall provide a type and size
of container which shall be subject to the approval of the City Manager or his
duly authorized representative. Multifamily residential, commercial, or
business enterprises of over four units occupied or in operation as of July 6,
1995 shall not be considered in violation of this section if the method of
disposal is not in keeping with this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit several businesses from
combining in the use of a single container, provided the location and size is
approved by the City Manager or his duly authorized representative. It shall be
the responsibility of the City Manager or his duly authorized representative to
determine the most feasible method of providing service to those users with
unusual access situations or other problems of a special nature.
   (C)   Frequency of collection to any particular commercial or business user
will be determined between the user and the City Manager or his duly authorized
representative. The frequency of collection, however, shall not exceed once
daily on the days Monday through Friday.
('69 Code, § 9-11) (Ord. passed 7-11-74; Am. Ord., passed 7-6-95)
§ 51.17 CONTAINERS TO BE PLACED AT STREET ONLY ON COLLECTION DAYS.
   No container issued to an individual or any other legal entity for the
collection and disposition of solid waste or recyclable material, regardless of
whether any contents are actually present in the container, shall be placed or
left in a location adjacent to any street or sidewalk, except on a designated
collection day. A schedule of days for collection of garbage, brush,
recyclables, and appliances shall be maintained in the office of the Director
of Public Works and shall be open to public inspection. Such schedule may be
altered or amended, from time to time, but when any such alteration is made,
notice thereof will be given by publication.
('69 Code, § 9-12) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48; Am. Ord. 49 ORD 10-07, passed 10-
4-07)
§ 51.18 REMOVAL OF EMPTY CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Solid waste containers and containers for recyclable materials that
have been placed adjacent to any street or sidewalk for collection shall be
removed from their position adjacent to the street or sidewalk after a
collection service, city-operated or otherwise, has collected the contents of
such containers. The removal of such a container from its position adjacent to
the street or sidewalk shall occur before the end of the calendar day on which
the contents of the container were physically collected.
   (B)   When a container is placed adjacent to a street or sidewalk in
violation of §
51.17 and/or is not removed in accordance with the provisions of division (A)
of this section, the following enforcement actions shall be taken by city
personnel designated by the City Manager:
      (1)   Upon discovery of a violation, city personnel shall make an on-site
notification of the violation by means of placing a door hanger, or some
equivalent form of notification, at the structure for which the improperly
placed container is designated. This notification shall describe the nature of
the violation and advise the recipient that this violation must be abated
within five business days of the date of the notice.
      (2)   If the violation is not corrected within the time period prescribed
by the initial notice of violation, a second notice of violation shall be
transmitted to the offending party or parties. This second notice of violation
shall state that the continuing violation must be abated within five business
days of the date of the notice in order to avoid an interruption in the solid
waste removal and/or curbside recycling service. Two methods of delivery shall
be used in order to provide the second notice of violation. A second door
hanger, or some equivalent form of notification, shall be posted on the
premises where the violation is occurring and a written notice of violation
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises as determined by an examination of
the county tax records. The written notice to the property owner shall be
transmitted via the United States Postal Service as registered or certified
mail.
      (3)   Upon the expiration of the time period specified in the second
notice of violation, any container located adjacent to the street or sidewalk
in violation of this section shall be removed from the premises by city
employees. The city’s Sanitation Department shall retain any container removed
from service as a consequence of a violation of this section until a service
fee of $60 is paid to the City of Asheboro for each container that has to be
moved by the city. This fee is to serve as reimbursement for the costs incurred
by the city to remove and store the improperly placed container(s). During the
time that a container is held by the city pursuant to this section, the city’s
Sanitation Department shall not provide service to the location from which any
containers were removed unless a container appropriate for the materials to be
collected is on-site and placed in the proper location.
      (4)   After city employees have removed a container designated for solid
waste collection from a location pursuant to this section, the container
designated for recyclable materials shall not be utilized for the disposition
of solid waste materials that are ineligible for collection as recyclables. Any
such use of a container designated for the collection of recyclable materials
is strictly prohibited and shall result in city employees removing an
improperly used recyclables container without further notice. Once removed from
a site, such a container will not be returned to the site and the corresponding
curbside-recycling service will be suspended until a service fee of $60 is paid
to the City of Asheboro for each container that has to be moved by the city.
   (C)   For the purpose of evaluating whether the placement of a container
constitutes a violation of this section, a container shall not be deemed to
have been removed from its position adjacent to the street or sidewalk after a
collection service, city-operated or otherwise, has collected the contents of
the container unless the entirety of the container in question is located
outside of the public right-of-way.
('69 Code, § 9-13) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48; Am. Ord. 49 ORD 10-07, passed 10-
4-07; Am. Ord. 55 ORD 11-10, passed 11-4-10)
§ 51.19 LIQUID MATERIALS NOT TO BE COLLECTED.
   No liquid or semi-liquid matter will be collected, nor shall such matter be
put in containers for removal by the city's garbage truck.
('69 Code, § 9-14) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48)
§ 51.20 CONTAINERS NOT TO INTERFERE WITH TRAFFIC.
   Garbage containers, when placed for collection of garbage by the city, shall
not be placed so as to interfere with traffic, on foot, in vehicles or
otherwise.
('69 Code, § 9-15) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48)
§ 51.21 INTERFERENCE WITH SOLID WASTE/ RECYCLABLES CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the person who initially
placed the solid waste/recyclables for collection to open, move, or otherwise
disturb a solid waste/recyclables container that has been placed for collection
adjacent to a street or sidewalk in compliance with the regulations prescribed
by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone other than the person who initially
placed the solid waste/recyclables for collection to open a plastic bag placed
inside a solid waste/recyclables container or to remove or otherwise disturb in
any manner the contents of the solid waste/ recyclables container after the
container has been placed for collection adjacent to a street or sidewalk in
compliance with the regulations prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the prohibition
against opening, moving, removing, or otherwise disturbing a solid waste/
recyclables container, or its contents, after placement for collection is
inapplicable to the following individuals and entities:
      (1)   Employees or contractors of the United States of America, the State
of North Carolina, or the City of Asheboro when such employees or contractors
are operating within the scope of their employment or contractual
responsibilities.
      (2)   Any and all individuals who belong to the same household as the
person who initially placed the solid waste/recyclables container adjacent to
the street or sidewalk for collection.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 9-16) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48; Am. Ord. 01 ORD 1-12, passed 1-5-
12; Am. Ord. 02 ORD 2-12, passed 2-9-12; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 PLACING OF MATERIALS FOR SPECIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   The City Environmental Services Department (formerly known as the
Sanitation Department and referred to as the “Department” throughout the
remainder of this section), by means of knuckle boom trucks, will collect yard
waste and construction and demolition material/building material waste in
accordance with the provisions of this division.
      (1)   As used within this section, the term YARD WASTE shall be deemed to
consist of grass trimmings, brush, scrub vegetation, tree limbs, and other
similar organic material not otherwise addressed by this chapter. Due to the
fact that all yard waste will be collected with a knuckle boom truck, no such
waste shall be placed for collection in a container or in any other manner that
is contrary to the provisions of this division. The first two scoops of yard
waste collected during a 24- hour period from a parcel of land shall be
collected at no charge to the occupant(s) or owner(s) of the property. If the
entirety of the yard waste deposited for collection on a parcel of land cannot
be collected in two scoops within the normal operating parameters of the
knuckle boom truck, a fee shall be charged to the occupant(s) or owner(s) of
the parcel of land in the amount of $15 for each additional scoop of yard waste
that is collected. The Department shall utilize a route type system to collect
yard waste and shall not be obligated to respond within any specified time
frame to a call for service.
      (2)   Construction and demolition material/ building material waste is
subject to collection by the city with a knuckle boom truck. This waste
material shall not be placed for collection in a container or in any other
manner that is contrary to the provisions of this division. A fee shall be
charged to the occupant(s) or owner(s) of the parcel of land upon which the
waste material is located in the amount of $20 per scoop of waste material that
is collected. The Department shall utilize a route type system to collect the
waste material and shall not be obligated to respond within any specified time
frame to a call for service.
      (3)   Occupants or owners of property desiring to have yard waste and
construction and demolition material/building material waste collected by the
Department shall place such waste material at the edge of the yard and
approximately two feet from the edge of the pavement of a public street or
highway. Waste material shall be placed a minimum of four feet from any other
object and shall not be placed under any guy wires.
      (4)   The above-stated fee structure shall only apply to items of yard
waste that are no longer than five feet in length and no more than four inches
in diameter. With regard to construction and demolition material/building
material waste, the above-stated fee structure shall only apply to items that
are no longer than four feet in length and no more than four feet in width. Any
item that exceeds the dimensions listed in the immediately preceding sentences
will not be collected when first observed by city employees operating a knuckle
boom truck. Instead, the occupant(s) of the property shall be notified of the
non-compliance of the waste material with the above-stated size restrictions by
means of tagging the waste material, and the owner(s) of the real property, as
listed by the Randolph County Tax Collector, shall be notified by means of a
registered letter of the non-compliance with the size restrictions. Upon the
passage of two calendar weeks from the date of tagging the waste and mailing
notification to the property owner(s), whichever is later, the Department shall
remove any non-conforming waste material that has not been relocated from its
original collection point.    The occupant(s) or owner(s) of the property from
which such waste material is removed shall be charged a fee of $24 per scoop of
waste material that is removed. Any and all waste material found within a pile
containing one or more non-conforming items of waste shall be subject to the
$24 per scoop fee, and no complimentary scoops of debris removal shall be
provided to any occupant or owner who has intermingled conforming and
nonconforming waste materials.
      (5)   No waste material shall be placed in a ditch or on a curb,
sidewalk, or public street or highway. Any such waste material shall be
collected by the Department without notice, and the occupant(s) or owner(s) of
the property from which the waste originated will be charged a fee of $24 for
each scoop of such waste that is collected by the city. No complimentary scoops
of waste material removal will be provided to an individual who places such
debris in a prohibited location.
      (6)   Waste material that is placed within a public right-of-way and
constitutes a traffic hazard shall be removed by the Department without notice.
The determination of whether waste material constitutes a traffic hazard shall
be within the sole discretion of the Public Works Director or his or her
designee(s). Any waste material that is deemed to be a traffic hazard and has
to be removed during the normal business hours of the Department shall be
removed at a cost of $24 per scoop. If such waste material has to be removed
outside of the Department’s normal business hours, the waste material will be
removed at a cost of $50 per scoop. The charges for removing waste material
that poses a traffic hazard shall be borne by the occupant(s) or owner(s) of
the property from which the waste material originated. No complimentary scoops
of waste material removal will be provided to an individual who places debris
in such a manner as to create a traffic hazard.
      (7)   As used within this section, the term YARD WASTE shall not be
deemed to include leaves that have been properly placed for collection by the
city’s Street Department.
   (B)   Discarded tires are subject to collection by the city at a fee of $5
per tire. Unless the identity of the party that physically discarded the
collected tire(s) can be conclusively established, the fee for collecting
discarded tires shall be charged to the occupant(s) or owner(s) of the parcel
of land from which the discarded tires are collected. The Department shall
utilize a route type system to collect discarded tires and shall not be
obligated to respond within any specified time frame to a call for service.
   (C)   The Department will collect those items commonly referred to as white
goods in accordance with the provisions of this division.
      (1)   As used within this section, the term WHITE GOODS shall be deemed
to include refrigerators, ranges, water heaters, freezers, unit air
conditioners, washing machines, dishwashers, clothes dryers, and other similar
domestic and commercial large appliances.
      (2)   Any items properly classified as white goods which are placed at
the edge of a yard and approximately two feet away from the edge of the
pavement of a public street or highway will be collected by the Department for
a fee of $10 per appliance.
   (D)   As part of the city’s electronics recycling program, the Department
will collect, on a weekly basis, electronics in accordance with the provisions
of this division.
      (1)   As used within this section, the term ELECTRONICS shall be deemed
to include any desktop computer, notebook computer, monitor or video display
unit for a computer system, and the keyboard, mice, other peripheral equipment,
and printing devices such as a printer, scanner, a combination print-scanner-
fax machine, or other device designed to produce hard paper copies from a
computer. The term ELECTRONICS also includes any electronic device that
contains a tuner that locks on to a selected carrier frequency and is capable
of receiving and displaying of television or video programming via broadcast,
cable, or satellite, including, without limitation, any direct view or
projection television with a viewable screen of nine inches or larger whose
display technology is based on cathode ray tube (CRT), plasma, liquid crystal
display (LCD), digital light processing (DLP), liquid crystal on silicon
(LCOS), silicon crystal reflective display (SXRD), light emitting diode (LED),
or similar technology marketed and intended for use by a consumer primarily for
personal purposes. If a question arises as to whether a specific item is deemed
to fall within the scope of the term ELECTRONICS, the definitions provided for
computer equipment and televisions in the most current version of G.S. § 130A-
309.131(2) and G.S. § 130A-309.131(16) shall be deemed to be the controlling
authority.
      (2)   With the exception of televisions and monitors, any items properly
classified as ELECTRONICS that are placed at the edge of a yard and
approximately two feet away from the edge of the pavement of a public street or
highway will be  collected by the Department free of charge. Televisions and
monitors placed at the edge of a yard and approximately two feet away from the
edge of the pavement of a public street or highway will be collected by the
Department for a fee of $10 per item.
      (3)   It is unlawful to place ELECTRONICS in trash or garbage
receptacles/containers serviced by the city, in dumpsters serviced by the city,
or in containers provided by the city for use with the automated collection
trucks.
   (E)   Unless provided otherwise in this section, the collection charges
instituted in this section will be added to the water and sewer bill of the
occupant(s) or owner(s) of the parcel of land from which the collected waste
material originated. Payment terms will be the same as for the water and sewer
bill. In the event of a partial payment on a combined water-sewer and
environmental services bill, the payment shall be applied to a customer’s bill
in the order prescribed by § 50.006(D). Failure to pay the full balance of the
water-sewer bill shall result in the consequences specified in the city code,
including without limitation the termination of water service. In the event of
nonpayment of collection charges by property occupant(s) or owner(s) that do
not have water and/or sewer accounts with the city, all collections of the
customer’s refuse will be discontinued until payment is remitted in full. If,
after reasonable inquiry has been made by city officials, a determination
cannot be conclusively made as to the identity of the party that placed the
waste material for collection, the charges associated with any such collection
shall be deemed to be the responsibility of the owner(s) of the property from
which the waste material was collected.
(‘69 Code, § 9-18) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48; Am. Motion, passed 5-5-83; Am.
Ord. 23-04, passed 6- 24-04; Am. Ord. 40 ORD 06-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 25
ORD 7-11, passed 7-14-11; Am. Ord. 46 ORD 6-23, passed 6-26-23)
§ 51.23 MATERIALS NOT SUBJECT TO COLLECTION.
   No collection, with or without charge, shall be made from vacant lots nor
shall any large rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than five
feet in length or other heavy objects be collected by the city. No waste
building materials or lot clearings shall be collected from houses or other
structures under construction or reconstruction or recently completed.
('69 Code, § 9-19) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48)
§ 51.24 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The placing of garbage for collection by the city or by any other
person or instrumentality whatsoever, on or adjacent to street or sidewalk of
the city, except in accordance with this chapter, shall be and is hereby
prohibited.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, in cases where an
otherwise lawful customer of the city's Environmental Services Department has
improperly placed for collection normal, nonhazardous household waste that will
not fit into the container made available for the collection and disposition of
solid waste, such a customer shall be billed for the collection of the
improperly placed waste material in lieu of pursuing the criminal process
otherwise authorized by this chapter. If the normal, nonhazardous household
waste that will not fit into the provided container (such waste material
includes by way of illustration mattresses, couches, and chairs) is placed in
or on a street, sidewalk, ditch, or in front of or on another person's
property, the otherwise lawful customer who improperly placed or acquiesced in
the improper placement of such solid waste for collection shall be billed for
the collection of the improperly placed solid waste in the same manner and to
the same extent as customers billed for improperly placed waste material under
the provisions of §
51.22(A)(5) and §
51.22(E) of this chapter. If the improperly placed solid waste can be collected
without the use of a knuckle boom truck, the charge for the collection services
will be based on the amount of solid waste actually collected and how many
scoops would have been required to remove such a quantity of solid waste if a
knuckle boom truck had been used.
('69 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 180, passed 1-8-48; Am. Ord. 22 ORD 8-12, passed 8-9-
12) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.35 USER CHARGES FOR COMMERCIAL SANITATION CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   A charge of $33.00 per regularly scheduled pick-up of a dumpster,
$18.00 per month per solid waste disposal can, $5.00 per month for each
recycling container, and $10.00 per month for curbside pick-up of solid waste
material equivalent in volume to the capacity of a commercial can is hereby
established for commercial sanitation customers. The charge for compaction
dumpsters shall be $44.00 per regularly scheduled pick-up. Additional pick-ups
for commercial dumpsters shall be $44.00 per pick-up, and additional pick-ups
for compaction dumpsters shall be $54.00.
   (B)   Dumpsters may be rented from the city by a commercial customer at a
rental rate of $25.00 per dumpster per month. A customer’s eligibility to rent
a dumpster from the city is contingent on the customer utilizing the city as
the exclusive provider of solid waste collection services for the rented
dumpster(s). The city’s Environmental Services Department will terminate,
without any penalty to the city, the rental relationship with a customer and
will immediately retrieve any and all dumpsters rented to a customer if a solid
waste collection service other than the city is found to have collected
materials from a city-owned dumpster. The city will replace a dumpster
previously rented from the city with a cleaned dumpster upon the request and
agreement of the customer to receive this service at a charge of $100.00 per
dumpster each time such a request is made.
   (C)   For purposes of this section and throughout
Chapter 51, commercial customer is hereby defined as any customer which is a
non-residential or a non- industrial user.
   (D)   Cans provided exclusively by the city may be used as a substitute for
dumpsters in areas approved by the Environmental Services Department.
   (E)   A one pick-up per week minimum is hereby established for any
commercial customer using a dumpster.
   (F)   The collection charges instituted in this section will be added to the
sanitation customer's water and sewer bill. Payment terms will be the same as
for the water and sewer bill. In the event of nonpayment of this charge,
collection of the customer's refuse/recyclables will be discontinued until
payment is remitted in full. All payments for solid waste/recycling services
user fees and water and sewer charges whether full or partial payments shall be
applied to the customer's account as follows: First, to any solid waste
services user fee charges including any arrears charges; second, to any
recycling services user fee charges including arrears charges; and third, to
any water and sewer charges including arrears charges. In the event of partial
payments, the utility charges will be considered outstanding and the prescribed
disconnection of services for non-payment will be enforced.
   (G)   Unless arrangements are made otherwise and the city is notified of
these arrangements, all property owners renting premises to a commercial
sanitation customer shall be responsible for the charges specified in this
section. Responsibility for payment of the charges may be passed to the renter
of the premises if the city billing department is notified of this arrangement.
   (H)   All property owners are deemed responsible to maintain their lots and
locate their dumpsters or cans in a fashion that allows the city sanitation
trucks acceptable access to the dumpsters or cans.
   (I)   All property owners must complete a Dumpster Permit and sign a hold
harmless agreement.
   (J)   The city is not liable for any damages resulting to parking lots,
drives, and the like caused by the weight of the trucks used for the dumpster
pick-ups. Each property owner is expected to maintain a lot or drive of
sufficient structure to support the weight of the collection trucks.
   (K)   No refuse which is unacceptable as routine refuse at the landfill will
be collected from commercial sanitation customers. Examples of unacceptable
waste include but are not limited to: hazardous waste, tires, batteries,
medical waste, yard waste, liquid waste, and white goods. Any receptacles
containing any of these materials will not be picked up by the sanitation
department until the unacceptable material is removed.
   (L)   The commercial customer is responsible for the contents of its
containers. The city is not responsible for policing containers to prevent
dumping of unacceptable waste, or refuse from individuals not related to the
commercial customer.
(Ord. passed 11-8-90; Am. Ord. passed 4-9-92; Am. Ord. 6-99, passed 6-24-99;
Am. Ord. 34-02, passed 10-10-02; Am. Ord. 65-03, passed 6-19-03; Am. Ord. 28
ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 21 ORD 6-07, passed 6-7-07; Am. Ord. 40 ORD
06-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 37 ORD 6-10, passed 6-24-10; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-
12, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord. 13 ORD. 6-14, passed 6- 26-14; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-
15, passed 6-29-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 6-22, passed 6-28-22; Am. Ord. 46 ORD 6-23,
passed 6-26-23)
§ 51.36 USER CHARGES FOR RESIDENTIAL SANITATION CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   A charge of $18.00 per month for each solid waste disposal container
provided by the city and assigned to a residential dwelling, $5.00 per month
for each recycling container provided by the city and assigned to a residential
dwelling, and $31.00 per regularly scheduled pick-up of a residential dumpster
is hereby established for residential sanitation customers. Additional pick-ups
for residential dumpsters shall be $40.00 per pick-up.
   (B)   The collection charges instituted in this section will be added to the
sanitation customer's water and sewer bill. Payment terms will be the same as
for the water and sewer bill. In the event of nonpayment of this charge,
collection of the customer's refuse/recyclables will be discontinued until
payment is remitted in full. All payments for solid waste/recycling services
user fees and water and sewer charges whether full or partial payments shall be
applied to the customer's account as follows: First, to any solid waste
services user fee charges including any arrears charges; second, to any
recycling services user fee charges including arrears charges; and third, to
any water and sewer charges including arrears charges. In the event of partial
payments, the utility charges will be considered outstanding and the prescribed
disconnection of services for non-payment will be enforced.
   (C)   All residential premises located within the corporate limits of the
City of Asheboro shall be assumed to be using the solid waste and recycling
collection services offered by the city. The occupants of the premises shall be
charged for these services so long as the premises remain in the city limits,
are or have previously been improved for residential dwelling purposes, and
contractual arrangements for solid waste collection services have not been made
with an entity other than the City of Asheboro. In the absence of documentation
to establish otherwise, the customer of record with the city's water billing
office shall be deemed to be the occupant of the premises receiving solid
waste/recycling collection services and shall be responsible for all of the
associated fees that will be charged each month.
   (D)   In the case of disputes about the fees charged pursuant to the
provisions of this section, the City Manager, or his designee, shall have the
authority to adjust any fee charged after the Manager or other designated
official has reviewed the circumstances surrounding the charge and determined,
consistent with the provisions of the Code of Asheboro, that the disputed
charge was added to the customer's account in error.
   (E)   Provisions specific to residential dumpsters.
      (1)   Dumpsters may be rented from the city by a residential sanitation
customer at a rental rate of $21.00 per dumpster per month. A customer's
eligibility to rent a dumpster from the city is contingent on the customer
utilizing the city as the exclusive provider of solid waste collection services
for the rented dumpster(s). The city's Environmental Services Department will
terminate, without any penalty to the city, the rental relationship with a
customer and will immediately retrieve any and all dumpsters rented to a
customer if a solid waste collection service other than the city is found to
have collected materials from a city-owned dumpster. The city will replace a
dumpster previously rented from the city with a cleaned dumpster upon the
request and agreement of the customer to receive this service at a charge of
$100.00 per dumpster each time such a request is made.
      (2)   A one pick-up per week minimum is hereby established for any
residential customer using a dumpster.
      (3)   Unless arrangements are made otherwise and the city is notified of
and agrees to these arrangements, the owner(s) of the real property where a
residential dumpster is located shall be responsible for the charges specified
in this section.
      (4)   The owner of the property upon which a dumpster is located is
deemed responsible for the maintenance of the premises in general and the
location of the dumpster site in particular so as to allow the Environmental
Services Department's trucks reasonable access to the dumpster.
      (5)   In order to receive residential dumpster service, all property
owners must complete a dumpster permit and properly execute a hold harmless
agreement in favor of the city.
      (6)   The city shall not be liable for any damages resulting to parking
lots, drives, and the like caused by the weight of the trucks used for dumpster
pick-up. Each property owner is expected to maintain a lot or drive of
sufficient structure to support the weight of the collection trucks.
   (F)   No refuse which is unacceptable as routine refuse at the landfill will
be collected from residential sanitation customers. Examples of unacceptable
waste include but are not limited to: hazardous waste, tires, batteries,
medical waste, yard waste, liquid waste, and white goods. Any receptacles
containing any of these materials will not be picked-up by the Environmental
Services Department until the unacceptable materials are removed.
   (G)   The owner of the premises where the dumpsters/containers are located
and the residents utilizing the dumpsters/containers are responsible for the
contents of the containers. The city is not responsible for policing containers
to prevent the dumping of unacceptable waste, or refuse from individuals not
related to the customer(s).
(Ord. 34-02, passed 10-10-02; Am. Ord. 59-03, passed 6-5-03; Am. Ord. 67-03,
passed 7-10-03; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 6-06, passed 6-20-06; Am. Ord. 21 ORD 6-07,
passed 6-7- 07; Am. Ord. 40 ORD 06-08, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 37 ORD 6-10,
passed 6-24-10; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-12, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord. 13 ORD 6-14,
passed 6-26-14; Am. Ord. 17 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 6-22,
passed 6-28-22)
§ 51.37 TRANSFER STATION TIPPING FEE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the City Recycling
and Waste Transfer Station is dedicated to fulfilling the mission of the city
to lawfully and efficiently process recyclables and solid waste collected by
city forces from the city's customers. Third party haulers have no right of
access to the city's transfer station.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing division (A), the City of Randleman, and
only the City of Randleman, is authorized to utilize the transfer station for
the waste stream directly linked to its municipal customers. A tipping fee of
$38 per ton of solid waste delivered by Randleman to the transfer station will
be charged to the City of Randleman.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-12, passed 6-28-12; Am. Ord 53 ORD 8-3, passed 8-10-23)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a division or section of this chapter that is specifically
designated as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.00.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose and policy
   
52.02   Definitions and abbreviations
General Sewer Use Requirements
   
52.05   Prohibited discharge standards
   
52.06   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
52.07   Local limits
   
52.08   State requirements
   
52.09   Right of revision
   
52.10   Dilution
   
52.11   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
52.12   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
52.13   Hauled wastewater
Fees
   
52.15   Purpose of fees
   
52.16   User charges
   
52.17   Surcharges
   
52.18   Pretreatment program administrative charges
Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
52.20   Wastewater dischargers
   
52.21   Wastewater permits
Reporting Requirements
   
52.25   Baseline monitoring reports
   
52.26   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
52.27   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline
   
52.28   Periodic compliance reports
   
52.29   Reports of changed conditions
   
52.30   Reports of potential problems
   
52.31   Reports from unpermitted users
   
52.32   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
52.33   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
52.34   Analytical requirements
   
52.35   Grab and composite sample collection
   
52.36   Timing
   
52.37   Record keeping
   
52.38   Electronic reporting
Compliance Monitoring
   
52.40   Monitoring facilities
   
52.41   Inspection and sampling
   
52.42   Search warrants
Confidential Information
   
52.45   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
52.50   Administrative remedies
   
52.51   Other available remedies
   
52.52   Remedies are nonexclusive
Annual Publication of Significant Noncompliance
   
52.55   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
Adjudicatory Hearings
   
52.58   Adjudicatory hearings
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
52.60   Upset
   
52.61   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
52.62   Bypass
 
   
52.99   Civil penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the City
of Asheboro and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and
federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.) and the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403). The objectives of this
chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the State or otherwise be incompatible
with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure the municipality complies with its NPDES or Non-discharge
Permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements, and any other federal
or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (B)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-312. The city shall designate an
administrator of the Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) and pretreatment
program that shall be hereinafter referred to as the POTW Director. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall administer, implement, and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or imposed upon
the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW Director to other city
personnel.
   (D)   By discharging wastewater into the city wastewater system, industrial
users located outside the city limits agree to comply with the terms and
conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms,
abbreviations, and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated:
   ACT or THE ACT . The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER .
      (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, authorized representative
shall mean:
         (a)   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-
term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
      (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state, or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described above may designate another authorized
representative if the authorization is in writing, the authorization specifies
the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the
facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility
for environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is
submitted to the city.
      (5)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW Director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) . The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20° centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g.,
mg/l).
   BUILDING SEWER . A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   BYPASS . The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS . National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   CFR . Code of Federal Regulations.
   CITY. The City of Asheboro, a North Carolina municipal corporation.
   COD. Chemical Oxygen Demand.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW
organization's pretreatment program has not been withdrawn.
   DIVISION. The Division of Water Quality of the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY , or EPA . The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   FATS, OILS , and GREASES . Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/
or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, and as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases."
   FOOD PREPARATION or SERVING FACILITY . Any commercial or industrial facility
that prepares or serves food or food products, including but not limited to
restaurants, cafes, snack bars, grills, delis, catering services, bakeries,
grocery stores, meat markets, food processors, or other similar establishments.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   GRAB SAMPLE . A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
   GREASE TRAP or INTERCEPTOR . A device constructed in accordance with the
plumbing code and operated by a user of the municipal wastewater system for
separating and retaining water borne greases and grease complexes prior to the
wastewater exiting the interceptor and entering the municipal wastewater
system. These devices also serve to collect settable solids generated by and
from preparation activities prior to the water exiting the interceptor and
entering the municipal wastewater system. The traps and interceptors are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease interceptors."
   G.S.  North Carolina General Statutes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE . Any waste from holding tanks, included but not limited
to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic
tanks, and vacuum pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE  or DISCHARGE . The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER . Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection system,
treatment processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which
causes or contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES,
collection system, or Non-discharge Permit or prevents sewage sludge use or
disposal in compliance with specified applicable state and federal statutes,
regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901, et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act
(MPRSA) or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any
state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable
to the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   l. Liter.
   MEDICAL WASTE . Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPACITY . The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability to effectively intercept and retain greases from grease-laden
wastewaters discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD . Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR Chapter 1,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT . A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD .
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in §
52.05 and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40 CFR
403.5.
   NEW SOURCE. As defined in 40 CFR 403.3(m), including subsequent amendments
and additions.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER . Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the state pursuant to G.S. § 143-
215.1 for a waste which is not discharged directly to surface waters of the
state or for a wastewater treatment works which does not discharge directly to
surface waters of the state.
   O & M . Operation and Maintenance.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase  in the magnitude or
duration of a violation of the POTW's NPDES, collection system, or non-
discharge permit or a downstream water quality standard even if not included in
the permit.
   PERSON . Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
   pH . A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any "waste" as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and industrial,
municipal, and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, metals, BOD, COD, toxicity, and
odor.)
   POTW DIRECTOR. The city administrator designated with the responsibility for
the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter. The city has
designated the Water Resources Director as the Administrator with this
responsibility.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or treatment plant. The reduction
or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes,
or process changes or other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Part 403.6
(d).
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the city in
compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the  approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any prohibited discharge standard, categorical
standard, or local limit which applies to an industrial user.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM . A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is
owned in this instance by the city. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, or in any other way, users of the
city's POTW.
   RCRA . Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE . Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU. An industrial user that discharges
wastewater into a publicly owned treatment works and that:
      (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewaters); or
      (2)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5% or more of the
NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant. In this context, organic capacity refers to BOD, TSS, and
ammonia; or
      (3)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR Part
403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N, Parts 405-471; or
      (4)   Is designated as such by the control authority on the basis that
the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the
POTW's operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, or
for contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent limitations and
conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for contributing to
violations of the POTW's receiving stream standard, or for limiting the POTW's
sludge disposal options.
      (5)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
paragraphs (1) and (2) above has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, or for contributing to violations of the POTW's effluent
limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge permit, or for
contributing to violations of the POTW's receiving stream standard, or for
limiting the POTW's sludge disposal options, and thus is not a significant
industrial user.
      (6)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
paragraph (3) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.3(v)(2) and thus
is a non-significant categorical industrial user.
      (7)   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the
control authority may determine that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
paragraph (3) above meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(3) and thus
is a middle tier significant industrial user. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be cut in half as per 40 CFR Parts 403.8(f)(2)(v)(C) and
403.12(e)(3).
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or SNC. The status of noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets the criteria in subparagraph 3,
4, or 8 shall also be in SNC.
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter (not including flow) during a six-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l).
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as defined
by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l), multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS, fats, oil, and grease, 1.2 for all other pollutants (except flow and pH).
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l) (daily maximum, long-term average,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) that the control authority
determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public).
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in
the control authority's exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR Part
403.8(f)(1)(vi)(B) and §
52.50(E) of this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge.
      (5)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date.
      (6)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule progress, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
any other compliance reports within 30 days from the due date.
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which
has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in any
other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or Industrial User
Permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
52.05.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
   THIS CHAPTER. Chapter 52 of the Code of Asheboro.
   TKN. Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen.
   TSS. Total Suspended Solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and storm water  that may be present, whether treated or untreated,
which are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
52.21.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds, tidal
estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs, and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public
or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the state
or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.05 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including but not limited to wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of less
than 140° F (60° C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one-half inch (½") in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 11.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD, etc.) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration) either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference with the
POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F (66° C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104° F (40° C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
52.13;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under §405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l unless authorized by the POTW Director;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 CFR Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface-active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system;
      (23)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the system)
be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit
(LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged into the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user's
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a user is contributing to the
POTW any of the above- enumerated substances in such amounts which may cause or
contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW Director
shall:
      (1)   Advise the user of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with §
52.50, and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
52.20 and
52.21 for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (D)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user(s) can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions
in 40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (E)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   (F)   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.07 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following daily average discharge
limits:
250 mg/l    BOD
250 mg/l    TSS
25 mg/l     Ammonia NH3
0.005 mg/1  Arsenic
0.005 mg/1  Cadmium
0.05 mg/l   Chromium (Total Chromium)
0.06 mg/1   Copper
0.01 mg/1   Cyanide
0.05 mg/l   Lead
0.0002 mg/l Mercury
0.02 mg/1   Nickel
0.005 mg/l  Silver
0.17 mg/1   Zinc
100 mg/1    Oil & Grease
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum
allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass-based
limits in addition to, or in place of, the concentration-based limits.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.08 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.09 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.01 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
52.05, as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.10 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant- specific
limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
52.21 and shall achieve compliance with all National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in §
52.05 within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state, or the POTW
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the POTW Director
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
city under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
approved by the POTW Director prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   In general, grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director
in conjunction with the Chief Building Inspector and shall be so located to be
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such interceptors shall be
inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by the user and at the
user's expense. To assist in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and
obstructions resulting from the contribution and accumulation of fats, oils,
and greases into the municipal wastewater system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and/or serving facilities, all
food preparation and/or serving facilities with existing grease interceptors
shall be subject to the following additional regulations. Furthermore, as of
January 1, 2004, all food preparation and/or serving facilities that are
proposed, constructed, expanded, renovated, reconstructed, or change ownership
shall be required to provide/install and maintain a grease interceptor in
compliance with the following supplemental regulations for grease interceptors
prior to such users opening, expanding, or reopening the food preparation and/
or serving facility.
         (a)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the POTW Director in conjunction with the Chief Building Inspector and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
The POTW Director shall have the right to make determinations concerning the
adequacy of a particular grease interceptor on the basis of a review of all
relevant information regarding the grease interceptor in question, including
but not limited to, the past performance of the interceptor, the facility site,
and a review of the building plan. If such a review of the relevant information
results in the POTW Director making the determination that a particular grease
interceptor is inadequate, the POTW Director shall have the right and authority
under this chapter to require the responsible party to repair, modify, or
replace the interceptor in question.
         (b)   The POTW Director may also require the utilization of grease
interceptors by industrial and non-domestic users, when in the opinion of the
POTW Director, such interceptors are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing fats, oil, and grease in concentrations as determined by
Standard Method 5520B in excess of 100 mg/l.
         (c)   All grease interceptors shall be provided and maintained in
continuously efficient operation at all times by and at the expense of the
users.
         (d)   Each user's grease interceptor shall be cleared of grease,
sludge, and debris as required to maintain minimum design capability. In ground
interceptors shall be cleaned, at a minimum frequency, of every 90 days. The
under the sink interceptors shall be cleaned daily. The POTW Director may
require of a user variable cleaning frequency if conditions warrant. All
maintenance and cleaning shall be performed by the user at his or her expense.
The user shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by
appropriate means of the captured material. Any removal and hauling of
collected material shall be performed according to all applicable federal,
state, and local government laws, ordinances, and regulations. No waste removed
from the interceptor shall be reintroduced into the sanitary sewer or back into
the interceptor.
         (e)   The use of enzymes or emulsifiers is prohibited.
         (f)   The use of hot water flushing to clear the interceptor is
prohibited.
         (g)   All users shall maintain written records of maintenance
performed on the interceptor for a minimum of three years and shall immediately
produce such records upon receipt of a request for the records from the POTW
Director or his or her designee. The records shall include a receipt for the
maintenance performed. In order for such a receipt to be valid for purposes of
this chapter, the receipt must be signed by the relevant contractor and dated.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.12 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director or his or her designee shall evaluate whether each
significant industrial user needs a plan or other action to control and prevent
slug discharges and accidental discharges as defined in §
52.02. All significant industrial users must be evaluated within one year of
being designated a significant industrial user. The POTW Director may require
any user to develop, submit for approval, and implement such a plan or other
specific action. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop such a plan for
any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge, or
a slug load. Also, see §
52.29 and §
52.30.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
52.30; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.13 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate §§
52.05 through
52.13 or any other requirements established by the POTW Director on behalf of
the city. The POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without the prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. This
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
FEES
§ 52.15 PURPOSE OF FEES.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the city's wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth
by the POTW Director in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees approved by
the City Council. A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from
the POTW Director.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.16 USER CHARGES.
   (A)   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge,
cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (B)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation, and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (C)   Each user shall pay its proportional cost based on volume of flow.
   (D)   Prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, the POTW Director shall
submit to the City Manager a proposed schedule of charges and fees. The City
Manager shall review the proposed schedule of charges and fees in light of the
sewage contributions of users, the total costs of debt service, and the
operation and maintenance costs of the POTW. On the basis of this review, the
City Manager will make recommendations to the City Council for adjustments as
necessary in the schedule of charges and fees that will be in effect for a
given fiscal year.
   (E)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.17 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   All industrial users of the POTW are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed concentrations of BOD, COD, TSS, and TKN
set forth in the schedule of charges and fees. The amount of the surcharges
will be based on the volume of flow and the character and concentrations of the
constituents of the wastewater.
   (B)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the city; or
      (2)   If required by the city or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the city. The city may require a refrigerated composite sampler, which will
collect proportional samples based upon flow readings from this system. The
metering system shall be installed and maintained at the users expense
according to arrangements that may be made with the city. Equipment
malfunctions or failures to properly measure flow shall necessitate flow data
based on the water consumption meter;
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the city, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow-measuring device of a type approved by the city.
   (C)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the city. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
   (D)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.18 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATIVE CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the city may include charges and
fees for the following:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program; and
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures; and
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications; and
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 52.20 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the city. When requested by the POTW
Director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The POTW Director is authorized
to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require users to update
this information.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.21 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial
user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing
industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant
industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180
days of receiving notification of the POTW Director's determination. Industrial
users who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the
discretion of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge
permit for non-significant industrial users.
   (B)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (C)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
city an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director and accompanied
by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of charges and
fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant industrial
user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director's
determination in division (B) above. The application shall include at a minimum
the information required by 15A NCAC 02H 0.0916(c)(1)(A-M). In support of the
application, the user shall submit any other information deemed necessary by
the POTW Director to evaluate the permit application. This information may
include reporting requirements under 40 CFR Part 403.12(b) and §
52.25 of this chapter.
   (D)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the industrial user on file with the approval authority and/
or city as defined in §
52.02 and contain the following certification statement:
      I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (E)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the city
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)    Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (F)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff's tentative determination in division (F)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited; and
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (F)(1) and (F)(2) above and the city's general permit conditions into
a Significant Industrial User Permit.
   (G)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all Significant Industrial User Permits.
      (1)   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
      (2)   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations,
including the following:
         (a)   Documentation of categorical determination, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards; and
         (b)   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2).
   (H)   Final action on Significant Industrial User Permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1; and
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements; and
         (c)   Modify any permits upon not less than 60 days notice and
pursuant to division (J) below; and
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
52.50; and
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
52.50; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance.
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated,
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months,
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by division (C) of this section,
the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after
the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (K)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)    A statement of duration (in no case more than five years); and
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability; and
         (c)    Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both; and
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law; and
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load as defined in §
52.02; and
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in §
52.02, if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user; and
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges, or slug load as defined in §
52.02, also see §
52.29 and §
52.30; and
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)    In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization; and
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily, and/or monthly average and/
or maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties; and
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works; and
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
and
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system; and
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment; and
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules; and
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation; and
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements; and
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports; and
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
52.37 and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto; and
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system; and
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee; and
         (n)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive,
accidental, or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems
to the system; and
         (o)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (p)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (K)   Permits duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (L)   Permit transfer. Wastewater Permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (M)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 52.25 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operations carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with the procedures set out in §
52.34 of this chapter.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with the procedures set
out in §
52.35 of this chapter and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)
(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current
authorized representative as defined in §
52.02 of this chapter and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
52.26 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline- monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.21(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.26 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
52.25(B)(7) of this chapter:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation); and
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months; and
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.27 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
52.25(B)(4) - (B)(6) of this chapter. For users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR
403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-
term production rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
52.21(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.28 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   The city may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   All significant industrial users required to self-monitor shall, at a
frequency determined by the POTW Director but in no case less than once every
six months, submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
applicable flows for the reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be
performed in accordance with procedures set out in §
52.34 and §
52.35 of this chapter. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with §
52.21(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
52.34 of this chapter, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.29 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant
changes to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. The
permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written approval from the
control authority and/or city. See §
52.30(D) of this chapter for other reporting requirements.
   (B)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
52.21 of this chapter.
   (C)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
52.21 of this chapter or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
52.21 of this chapter in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20% or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, increases or decreases to
production, increases in discharge of previously reported pollutants, discharge
of pollutants not previously reported to the control authority and/or city, new
or changed product lines, new or changed manufacturing processes and/or
chemicals, or new or changed customers.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.30 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
52.02 of this chapter, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user
shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) of this section. Employers shall ensure
that all employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge, or
a slug load as defined in §
52.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.31 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   (A)   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall
provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may
require.
   (B)   All users classified as non-significant categorical industrial users
under subparagraph (6) of the definition for significant industrial user or SIU
found in §
52.02 of this chapter shall provide appropriate reports to the POTW Director as
the POTW Director may require. At a minimum, this reporting shall include the
annual certification that the user is continuing to meet the non-significant
categorical industrial user criteria as required under 40 CFR 403.12(q).
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.32 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu
of the industrial user and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation,
the POTW Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the
repeat analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month; or
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between their initial sampling
and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.33 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   The city prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification to and approval by the POTW Director.
   (B)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than 100
kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification also
shall contain the following information to the extent such information is known
and readily available to the user: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass and concentration of such
constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the following
12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days before the
discharge commences. The user shall not begin the discharge until written
approval is received from the city. Any notification under this paragraph need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under §
52.29 of this chapter. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self- monitoring requirements of §§
52.25,
52.27, and
52.28 of this chapter.
   (C)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (B) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (D)   In the case of any new regulation under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW
Director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
   (E)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (F)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.34 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
by a laboratory certified by the state to perform the wastewater analyses in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard or unless
otherwise performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA or the
city. If 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in
accordance with procedures approved by the EPA and the city.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.35 GRAB AND COMPOSITE SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs necessary
to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(5) for
additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 Day Compliance
Reports. Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of multiple grabs
during a 24 hour period which are composited prior to analysis as allowed under
40 CFR 136.
   (C)   Composite samples. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected
with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a
discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.36 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.37 RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this chapter and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
taking the samples; the data analyses that were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.38 ELECTRONIC REPORTING.
   The POTW Director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports
for any reporting requirements of this chapter. Such procedures shall comply
with 40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under §§
52.50,
52.51,
52.52, and
52.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 31 ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 52.40 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city requires the user to provide and operate, at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the city.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.41 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city, approval authority, and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, and records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The city, approval
authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
city, approval authority, and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay,
for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the
city’s, approval authority's, or EPA's access to the user's premises shall be a
violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12))
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.42 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the city, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the city, approval
authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the Magistrate's
Office of Randolph County.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 52.45 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data identifying the nature and frequency of a
discharge that is provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director pursuant
to this chapter shall be available to the public without restriction. All other
information which may be submitted by an industrial user to the POTW Director
in connection with any required reports shall also be available to the public
unless the industrial user or other interested person specifically identifies
the information as confidential upon submission and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the disclosure of such information
or a particular part thereof to the general public would divulge methods or
processes entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   Information provided by an industrial user to the POTW Director that
is determined to be entitled to confidential treatment shall be made available
upon written request to the Division of Water Quality or any state agency for
uses related to the pretreatment program, the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, collection system permit, stormwater permit,
and/or non-discharge permit, and for uses related to judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
   (C)   Information and data received by the Division or other state agency
under division (B) above shall be subject to the processes set forth in G.S. §
143-215.3C.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12) Penalty, see §
52.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.50 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation, or requirement contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon such a person or
user a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from
the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person or entity responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the
discharger to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by
the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an
administrative order issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The POTW Director may order any industrial user
who causes or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this
chapter, or is in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show
cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the
POTW Director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken.
The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (2)   A show cause hearing under this Subdivision is not a prerequisite
to the assessment of a civil penalty under §
52.99 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
division subject to an administrative appeal under §
52.58.
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits, or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions. The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
the environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or Non-discharge Permit. Any user notified of a
suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit
shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. A hearing will be held
within 15 days of the notice of suspension to determine whether the suspension
may be lifted or the user's waste discharge permit terminated. In the event of
a failure to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the POTW Director
shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the
sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or
endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director shall reinstate the
wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof of the
elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user shall submit a
detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution
and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the POTW Director
prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. The POTW Director
may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge; or
      (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics; or
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to discharge,
conditions of this chapter, or any applicable state or federal regulations.
   (G)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under §
52.50 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.51 OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   Remedies, in addition to the civil penalties authorized in §
52.99 and other remedies authorized elsewhere in this chapter, are available to
the POTW Director who may use any single one or combination against a
noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not limited
to:
   (A)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the 19-B Judicial
District, which includes Randolph County, may, at the request of the city,
prosecute noncompliant users who violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
   (B)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW Director,
through the City Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user's expense, after the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its
ability and willingness to comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW Director. Any person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the Code of Asheboro and the North Carolina General Statutes
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred
in removing, abating, or remedying the nuisance.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.52 REMEDIES ARE NONEXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Furthermore, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 52.55 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance in 15A
NCAC 2H .0903(b)(34), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS
§ 52.58 ADJUDICATORY HEARINGS.
   (A)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied or
is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permitted user
assessed a civil penalty under §
52.99, or a permitted user issued an administrative order under §
52.50 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before the POTW Director
or other hearing officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written
demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director
within 30 days following receipt or denial of the significant industrial user
permit, civil penalty assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written
demand is made within the time specified herein, the action shall be final and
binding and further appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of
the permit being modified may be adjudicated. The hearing officer shall make a
final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order within 45 days of the
receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW Director shall transmit a
copy of the hearing officer's decision by registered or certified mail as
described in division (C) below. The terms and conditions of a permit under
appeal shall be as follows:
      (1)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms and conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms and conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (3)   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   (B)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (A) above may be appealed
to the City Council upon filing a written demand within ten days of receipt of
notice of the decision. Hearings held under this division shall be conducted in
accordance with the quasi-judicial hearing principles and procedures utilized
by the City Council when conducting quasi-judicial hearings for land use cases.
Failure to make written demand within the time specified herein shall bar
further appeal. The City Council shall make a final decision on the appeal
within 90 days from receipt of the demand filed under division (A) and shall
transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or certified mail as
described in division (C) below. The decision is a final decision for the
purposes of seeking judicial review.
   (C)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (B)
above, the City Council shall prepare an official record of the case that
includes:
      (1)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings.
      (2)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced.
      (3)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
      (4)   A copy of the final decision of the City Council.
   (D)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the City Council is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under division
(B) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a
written request for judicial review with the Superior Court of Randolph County,
along with a copy to the city, within 30 days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter.
Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written request for judicial
review, the city shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a
certified copy of the official record.
(Ord. 31 ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 52.60 UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause of the upset;
and
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted (verbal notification of the required
information is acceptable so long as the verbal notification is followed-up
with written notification that is submitted within five days) the following
information to the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
upset:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance; and
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   The steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.61 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
52.05(A) or the specific prohibitions in §
52.05(B)(2), §
52.05(B)(3), §
52.05(B)(5-7), and §
52.05(B)(9-23) if it can prove that it did know, or have reason to know, that
its discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.62 BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provisions of divisions (B) and (C).
   (B)   The following notification requirements shall apply specifically to a
bypass:
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior written notice to the POTW Director at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit verbal notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time when the user became aware
of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the verbal report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   In addition to the exception prescribed by division (A), the following
exceptions apply to the general prohibition on bypass:
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable due to the need to prevent loss of life,
personal injury, or severe property damage; and
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (B).
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
§ 52.99 CIVIL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder,
may be assessed a civil penalty of up to $25,000 per day per violation.
   (B)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
      (1)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
      (2)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (C)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
and
      (2)    The duration and gravity of the violation; and
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality; and
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage; and
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance; and
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally; and
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)    The cost of enforcement to the city.
   (D)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
52.58.
(Ord. 5-03, passed 5-15-03; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 02-08, passed 2-7-08; Am. Ord. 31
ORD 12-12, passed 12-6-12)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with chapter
   
70.03   Applicability to bicycle and animal riders and drivers
   
70.04   Exemption for Asheboro Bike Patrol
Traffic Control Devices and Markings
   
70.15   Obedience required; exceptions
   
70.16   Previously installed devices
   
70.17   Turning indicators
   
70.18   No parking and safety zone indicators
   
70.19   Limited purpose parking indicators
   
70.20   Limited parking time indicators
   
70.21   One-way street signs
   
70.22   Stop and yield signs
   
70.23   Signs indicating vehicles of certain types or weight prohibited
   
70.24   Speed limit signs
   
70.25   Zones of quiet
   
70.26   Play streets
   
70.27   School zones
   
70.28   Traffic control signal legend; flashing signals
   
70.29   Designation and posting signs or marking streets
Operation of Vehicles
   
70.40   Through streets; duty to stop
   
70.41   Duty of drivers at stop intersections
   
70.42   Intersections and crosswalks
   
70.43   Operation on one-way streets
   
70.44   Driving through funeral processions
   
70.45   Left turns
   
70.46   Intersections at which left and right turns prohibited
   
70.47   Intersections at which U turns prohibited
   
70.48   Limitations on backing
   
70.49   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
70.50   Compliance with traffic control devices required
   
70.51   Operation of vehicles on sidewalks, parks, or other city property
   
70.52   Operation of bicycles and motorcycles
   
70.53   Use of play vehicles restricted
   
70.54   Clinging to vehicles prohibited
   
70.55   Riding in space not intended for passengers prohibited
   
70.56   Manner of riding in vehicles regulated
   
70.57   Unauthorized riders
   
70.58   Boarding or leaving vehicle while in motion prohibited
   
70.59   Avoidance
   
70.60   Prohibition of the solicitation of employment, business, or
contributions upon highways or streets
   
70.61   Golf carts
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED. Official; by authority of the City Council or City Manager, or
by authority of the State Highway Commission.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, Police
Department, ambulances, and rescue squad vehicles or any other such vehicle
recognized by the state as an emergency vehicle.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 75% or more of
the frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
Also, any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER/OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle which is
in motion or which has the engine running. The terms OPERATOR and DRIVER and
their cognates are synonymous.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, in none, then  the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways, which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highway shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01 (27).
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the City
Council for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic or for the
purpose of prohibiting or regulating the parking of vehicles.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device not inconsistent with this chapter,
whether manually, electrically or mechanically operated, placed or erected by
authority of the City Council, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop
and to proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the city Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrest for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street
cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam, diesel or other engine, or an electric or other
motor, with or without  cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   RESIDENT OR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway and
not comprising a business district, when 75% of the frontage on such highway
for a distance of 300 feet or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or dwellings
and buildings in use for business.
   RIGHT OF WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the road.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the even a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to
any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, on the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING WHEN PROHIBITED. Any stopping of a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   STOP WHEN REQUIRED. Complete cessation of movement.
   STORE. To put aside, or accumulate, to use when needed.
(Ord. 07-90, passed 7-12-90)
   STREET/HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines of
every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic. The
terms HIGHWAY and STREET and their cognates are synonymous.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purpose of
travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
('69 Code, § 12-1)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act prohibited or to fail to
perform any act required by this chapter.
('69 Code, § 12-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.03 APPLICABILITY TO BICYCLE AND ANIMAL RIDERS AND DRIVERS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon
a roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions which by their very nature can have no application.
('69 Code, § 12-7)
§ 70.04 EXEMPTION FOR ASHEBORO BIKE PATROL.
   Any police officer riding or operating a bicycle in the performance of his/
her duty is exempted from the provisions of this section so long as the actions
of the officer(s) are deemed reasonable and with due regard for the public's
safety. Furthermore, this exemption shall be deemed applicable to any and all
provisions of the Code where the regulation of bicycles is addressed.
(Ord. passed 10-10-96)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND MARKINGS
§ 70.15 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
applicable official traffic control device unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, subject to the exemptions granted by this title to the driver
of an authorized emergency vehicle; provided, that no provision of this chapter
for which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if
at the time and place of the alleged violation an official sign is not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective without signs being placed to give notice thereof.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-13) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PREVIOUSLY INSTALLED DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic and parking control devices, signals, signs and markings
heretofore placed, erected or installed by authority of the City Council and
which are in place on the effective date of this code shall be deemed to be
official traffic control devices until such time as they may be removed by
authority of the City Council pursuant to this chapter, and until they are so
removed it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any
instruction or directive indicated by any such official traffic control device.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-14) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 TURNING INDICATORS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected, or installed indicating
that no right, left or "U" turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions of any such sign; and when authorized markers, buttons
or other indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to
be traveled by vehicles traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of such indications.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-15) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 NO-PARKING AND SAFETY ZONE INDICATORS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the directions contained in or given by such signs or markings.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-16) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 LIMITED PURPOSE PARKING INDICATORS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating zones in which parking or standing is limited to specified purposes,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions contained in or given by
such signs or markings.
   (B)   This section shall be applicable to taxicab stands, bus stops,
commercial loading spaces, reserved parking spaces and other places authorized
by this title to be restricted to certain uses only.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-17) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 LIMITED PARKING TIME INDICATORS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating parking zones in which parking time is limited, no driver of a
vehicle shall disobey the directions contained in or given by such signs or
markings.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-18) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 ONE-WAY STREET SIGNS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
that traffic shall proceed only in a certain direction, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions contained in or given by such signs.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-19) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized stop signs are placed, erected or installed
indicating that vehicles shall be brought to a stop before proceeding into an
intersection, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions contained in
or given by such signs, nor shall he proceed into any such intersection until
he has first determined that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
   (B)   Whenever authorized yield or yield right of way signs are placed,
erected or installed indicating that no vehicle shall enter an intersection
without first yielding the right of way to other vehicles approaching from any
direction, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions contained in or
given by such signs, nor shall he proceed into any such intersection until he
has first determined that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-20) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 SIGNS INDICATING VEHICLES OF CERTAIN TYPES OR WEIGHT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
that vehicles of certain types or in excess of certain weights are prohibited
on certain streets or portions of certain streets, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the prohibitions of any such sign.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-21) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 SPEED LIMIT SIGNS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
speed limits, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions contained in
or given by such signs.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-22) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 ZONES OF QUIET.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
a zone of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall
sound the horn or other warning device of such vehicle except in an emergency,
nor shall he permit a radio to emit sound that can be heard above the sound of
traffic within such zone, or make any unnecessary noise.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-23) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
any street or part thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle
upon any such street or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having
business or whose residences are within such closed area, and then any such
driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street or
portion thereof.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-24) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating
any street or part thereof as a school zone, all drivers of motor vehicles
using such street or part thereof shall exercise the greatest care in driving
for the protection of children.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-25) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND; FLASHING SIGNALS.
   All traffic-control signal legends, including flashing signals, shall mean
the same as and be in accordance with G.S. § 20-158 and any and all other
applicable state statutes.
§ 70.29 DESIGNATION AND POSTING SIGNS OR MARKING STREETS.
   Pursuant to instructions given to him by the City Council from time to time
and entered in the council minute book, the City Manager shall:
   (A)   Cause all streets and parts of streets designated as through streets
to be posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter
the description of such streets and parts of streets in schedule 6 of §
72.02.
   (B)   Cause all intersections designated as stop intersections when entered
from designated streets to be posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City
Clerk, who shall enter the description of such intersections and the streets of
enter thereto upon which stops are required in schedule 7 of §
72.02.
   (C)   Cause all streets and parts of streets which are designated as one-way
streets to be posted accordingly and so as to show the direction in which
traffic shall proceed. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets and parts of streets, and the direction of traffic
thereon, in schedule 8 of §
72.02.
   (D)   Cause all intersections at which all traffic, when making left turns,
shall travel to the left of the center of such intersections, to be marked
accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such intersections in schedule 9 of §
72.02.
   (E)   Cause all intersections at which left turns shall be prohibited to be
posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such intersections in schedule 10 of §
72.02.
   (F)   Cause all intersections at which right turns shall be prohibited to be
posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such intersections in schedule 11 of §
72.02.
   (G)   Cause all streets and parts of streets within the business district
upon which no U turns shall be made at intersections to be posted accordingly.
He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the description of such
streets and parts of streets in schedule 12 of §
72.02.
   (H)   The City Manager, and the Chief of Police through the City Manager,
shall from time to time recommend to the City Council such proposed amendments
to schedules 6 to 12 of §
72.02 as they shall deem necessary for the benefit of the city.
('69 Code, § 12-69)
   (I)   The City Manager, and the Chief of Police through the City Manager,
shall from time to time
recommend to the City Council such streets and parts of streets as they may
consider appropriate to be designated as safety zones, crosswalks, play
streets, school zones and zones of quiet; and when any street or part thereof
is given any such designation by the City Council by action of record in the
council minute book the City Manager shall cause such street or part thereof to
be marked or posted accordingly. This section shall not be construed so as to
prohibit the City Council from acting on its own initiative, without
recommendation from the City Manager or Chief of Police.
('69 Code, § 12-70)
   (J)   The City Council shall determine from time to time those streets and
parts of streets which shall be prohibited to tractors and other vehicles
having cleated wheels, trailers, trucks having a load capacity in excess of one
ton and other vehicles which may damage streets, endanger persons or property
or unreasonably impede the flow of traffic, and when any such determination
shall have been made by action entered in the council minutes, the City Manager
shall cause such streets and parts thereof to be marked or posted to conform to
the prohibitions and limitations prescribed by such action of the City Council.
Whenever the City Manager takes action under this section to post any street or
part thereof, or to amend or remove any sign posted hereunder, he shall notify
the City Clerk. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to maintain, in current
status, a record of all streets and parts of streets affected by this division.
('69 Code, § 12-88)
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 70.40 THROUGH STREETS; DUTY TO STOP.
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets described in schedule 6 of §
72.02 are hereby declared to be through streets for the purpose of this
chapter.
   (B)   When authorized stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon
highways intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto, or at the
entrance to any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop and shall
not proceed into or across the through street until he has first determined
that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
   (C)   Failure to stop before entering a through street, except in accordance
with a traffic stop light signal at an intersection where such light is in
operation, is prohibited.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-71) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 DUTY OF DRIVERS AT STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Those intersections described in schedule 7 of § 72.02 are hereby
declared to be stop intersections, when entered from streets first named; and
when authorized stop signs are placed, erected or installed at such
intersections, every driver of a vehicle shall stop, in obedience to such
signs, before entering the intersection and shall not proceed into or across
the through street until he has first determined that no conflict with traffic
will be involved.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-72) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 INTERSECTIONS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless
there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-73) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 OPERATION ON ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Upon those streets and parts of streets described in schedule 8 of §
72.02, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
authorized signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained
at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-74) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except
authorized emergency vehicles when responding to calls.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-75) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.45 LEFT TURNS.
   (A)   In making left turns at the street intersections described in schedule
9 of §
72.02, all traffic shall travel to the left of the center of such intersections
as may be indicated by authorized buttons, markers or other directing signs.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-76) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH LEFT AND RIGHT TURNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall make a left turn at any street intersection described
in schedule 10 of §
72.02.
   (B)   No vehicle shall make a right turn at any street intersection
described in schedule 11 of §
72.02.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-77) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite
direction except at a street intersection; and no vehicle shall make a U-turn
even at street intersections:
      (1)   Within the business district;
      (2)   Where an official traffic control device is in operation, unless
such device indicates that U-turns are permissible;
      (3)   In the streets or portions of streets described in schedule 12 of §
72.02.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-78) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back it into any intersection or
over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event or at any place, back a vehicle
unless such movement can be made in safety and he shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind, by hand, horn or other signal.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-79) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into
the sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable a misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 12-80) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Failure to observe any official traffic control device or signal or
any authorized traffic control sign or marker, and failure to comply with the
directions thereof, shall be unlawful.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-86) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS, PARKS, OR OTHER CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle, as
defined by G.S. § 20-4.01(23), including "mini-bikes", on any sidewalk, in
parks, or other property owned or under the control of the city; provided, that
nothing herein shall prohibit the operation of a registered motor vehicle on
the public streets or highways in the city in accordance with the laws of the
state, or upon property set aside for the use of motor vehicles; provided,
however, that nothing herein shall prohibit the operation of a motor vehicle
across sidewalks at a driveway to obtain ingress or egress to any lot or parcel
of land served by such driveway.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-95.1) (Ord., passed 8-5-71; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 OPERATION OF BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   (A)   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle when upon a street shall not
carry any person upon the handlebar, frame, or tank of any such vehicle, nor
shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
('69 Code, § 12-84)
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having both hands upon the handlebars.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 USE OF PLAY VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person riding on a skateboard, roller
skates, coaster, toy vehicle or similar device to ride any of such devices on
the premises of the municipal buildings, on any of the facilities or structures
located in Bicentennial Park, on any municipal parking facility, or to ride any
such devices on any sidewalk or street located in the central business district
of the city, as designated on the City Zoning Map as a B-3 District.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person riding on a skateboard, roller
skate or any other toy vehicle to ride on a roadway except while crossing a
street at a crosswalk or intersection; provided, that this section shall not
apply upon streets set aside as play streets.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride on a skateboard, roller
skates, or any other toy vehicle on private property when signs are placed,
erected, or installed giving notice that skateboarding, roller skating or
riding any other toy vehicle is regulated, prohibited, or prohibited during
certain hours, in that space or area.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-89) (Am. Ord. 2- 99, passed 2-17-99; Am. Ord. 40- 05, passed 9-
8-05; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54 CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller
skates or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself to any public
conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-90) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 RIDING IN SPACE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or other vehicle or any
portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This
provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of
a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for
merchandise.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-92) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 MANNER OF RIDING IN VEHICLES REGULATED.
   (A)   No person when riding shall allow any part of his body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he is riding, except to give such
signals as by law required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle from the
outside.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-93) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 UNAUTHORIZED RIDERS.
   (A)   No person shall enter, jump on or ride in any vehicle without the
consent of the owner or driver.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-94) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.58 BOARDING OR LEAVING VEHICLE WHILE IN MOTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other
vehicle while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-95) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59 AVOIDANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive across a sidewalk or through other
property for the purpose of avoiding an official traffic-control device.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
(Ord., passed 4-9-92; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.60 PROHIBITION OF THE SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYMENT, BUSINESS, OR
CONTRIBUTIONS UPON HIGHWAYS OR STREETS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no person shall stand on any
street, highway, or right-of-way excluding sidewalks while soliciting, or
attempting to solicit, any employment, business, or contributions from the
driver or occupants of any vehicle.
   (B)   Not withstanding the prohibition found in division (A) above, a person
may engage in the distribution of newspapers on the non-traveled portion of any
street or highway so long as the distribution activities do not impede the
normal movement of traffic on the street or highway. It shall be unlawful for
any person to impede the normal movement of traffic on the street or highway.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to licensees,
employees, or contractors of the North Carolina Department of Transportation or
the City of Asheboro that are engaged in construction, maintenance, or in
making traffic or engineering surveys.
   (D)   If any person shall violate this section, he or she shall be guilty of
a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500 in accordance with
G.S. § 14-4.
   (E)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
section. If any sentence, clause, or phrase of this section is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such
judgment shall in no way affect or impair the validity of the remaining
portions of this section.
(Ord. 1-03, passed 1-9-03; Am. Ord. 41-05, passed 9-8-05; Am. Ord. 54 ORD 9-08,
passed 9-4-08)
§ 70.61 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Unless the context requires otherwise, the definitions found in G.S. §
20-4.01 apply throughout this section. As specified in G.S. § 20-4.01(12a), a
golf cart is a vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf course
for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of exceeding
speeds of 20 miles per hour. The definition of golf cart is republished here
for convenience only, and the definition set out in the North Carolina General
Statutes, as amended from time to time, is controlling for all purposes.
   (B)   The operation of golf carts on designated public streets, roads, and
highways within the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro in compliance with
the provisions of this section is permitted; however, it shall be unlawful to
operate any golf cart at any place or in any manner that is not authorized
herein. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, the operation of
golf carts is not subject to the provisions of this section under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs, or on
private property with the consent of the owner of the property;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts within gated or limited access
communities unless the streets of the community are dedicated for public use
and maintained by the city;
      (3)   The use of golf carts by city personnel for official business on
property owned or leased by the city; and
      (4)   The operation of golf carts in connection with a properly permitted
parade or a street festival/special event so long as the person or entity in
charge of the parade or event consents to the use of the golf cart, the golf
cart is only used during the parade or event, and the public street, road, or
highway upon which the golf cart is operated has been closed by order of the
proper governmental authorities.
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated on the following streets so long as such
use of the public streets is conducted in full compliance with the provisions
of this section:
      (1)   Deer Ridge Road.
      (2)   Grey Rabbit Run.
      (3)   Stable Brook Road.
      (4)   Stone Bridge Road.
      (5)   Fox Ridge Road.
      (6)   High Meadow Drive.
      (7)   Tot Hill Trail.
      (8)   Johns Ridge Drive.
      (9)   Maple Hill Court.
      (10)   Stonewall Court.
   (D)   No person who is less than 16 years of age may operate a golf cart on
any public street, road, or highway within the city. Additionally, it is
unlawful for a person to operate a golf cart on any public street, road, or
highway within the city without having in his or her possession a valid
driver's license issued in accordance with the laws of North Carolina or
another state.
   (E)   No golf cart may be operated on any public street, road, or highway
within the city unless the golf cart has been registered with the City of
Asheboro Police Department. The registration shall be renewed thereafter in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Upon successful completion of
the registration process, a biennial permit shall be issued to the owner of the
registered golf cart by the Asheboro Chief of Police or his or her designee,
and this sticker shall be attached to the rear fender of the registered golf
cart in a manner that will render the sticker readily observable to the
occupant of a motor vehicle approaching the rear of the golf cart. At a
minimum, this registration sticker shall display the registration number
assigned to the golf cart and the sticker's expiration date. The type and
format of registration sticker to be utilized on golf carts shall be developed
and approved by the Asheboro Chief of Police. For purposes of administrative
efficiency, the Chief of Police is hereby authorized to establish standardized
pre-printed expiration dates for the registration stickers so long as each
registration sticker is valid, as measured from the date of the physical
issuance of the sticker, for a minimum duration of 24 calendar months.
   (F)   An application to initially register or renew the registration of a
golf cart shall be submitted on a form developed and approved by the Asheboro
Chief of Police. At a minimum, the approved form shall obtain the owner's name,
street address, mailing address, a contact number, and the make, model, and
identification or serial number of the golf cart to be registered.
Additionally, with the submission of the approved form, an applicant shall
acknowledge the city's disclaimer of liability and notification of assumption
of risk by the applicant for accidents involving the registered golf cart.
   (G)   Prior to issuing the initial registration permit or any renewal
thereof, a registration fee of $25 per golf cart shall be collected by the
police department, and the golf cart shall be inspected by the Chief of Police
or his or her designee to ensure compliance with the following standards:
      (1)   The golf cart is equipped with a rear vision mirror and at least
two red reflectors that are at least three inches in height and width on the
rear of the golf cart;
      (2)   The golf cart is equipped with a reflective "slow moving vehicle"
sign on the rear of the golf cart that conforms with generally accepted highway
safety standards in North Carolina;
      (3)   The brakes provided by the manufacturer of the golf cart are in
proper working order;
      (4)   The golf cart has all of the standard safety features provided by
the manufacturer and has not been modified to exceed a speed of 20 miles per
hour nor otherwise modified in any way that creates a hazard; and
      (5)   The golf cart is equipped with any other mechanical systems and
safety equipment required for compliance with the provisions found in this
section.
   (H)   The registration of a golf cart may be denied or subsequently revoked
by the Asheboro Chief of Police or his or her designee if it is determined
that:
      (1)   The submitted application contains any material misrepresentation;
      (2)   The golf cart is not in compliance with one or more of the
requirements prescribed by this section.
      (3)   The golf cart has been altered or customized and no longer meets
the definition of a "golf cart;" or
      (4)   Equipment installed by the manufacturer, specifically including
without limitation safety equipment and the vehicle identification or serial
number, has been removed from the golf cart.
   (I)   It is unlawful to operate a golf cart on a public street designated
for golf carts in any manner that fails to comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Only the number of people the golf cart was designed to seat may
ride on the golf cart at any single point in time. By way of illustration and
not limitation, passengers shall not be transported on the part of a golf cart
designed to carry golf bags.
      (2)   A golf cart must not be operated at a speed greater than reasonable
and prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater
than 20 miles per hour.
      (3)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless and reckless manner.
      (4)   Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the roadway and
must yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   Golf carts are permitted to operate on public streets only during
daylight hours unless the cart is equipped with at least one operating
headlight that has, at a minimum, a 55 watt halogen, or equal, bulb on the
front of the golf cart and two operating tail lights on either side of the rear
of the golf cart. If the lighting specified in the immediately preceding
sentence is installed and operational, such a golf cart may operate for one
hour before sunrise and one hour past sunset.
      (6)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including without limitation all laws,
regulations, and ordinances pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages.
   (J)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, golf carts that
are operated on public streets for the limited purposes of (1) crossing the
streets listed in division (C) at designated crossing points marked with
signage installed by the city and/or (2) utilizing Tot Hill Trail in
furtherance of golfing activities are exempt from the requirements prescribed
by divisions (E), (F), (G), and (H).
   (K)   All terrain vehicles, 4-wheel utility vehicles, and other similar
utility vehicles that are not manufactured for operation on a golf course as
well as golf carts that have been modified so as to no longer conform with the
prescribed definition of "golf cart" may not be registered under this section,
and these types of vehicles are not permitted to operate on the public roads,
streets, and highways within the city unless such vehicles are otherwise
registered with and allowed under the motor vehicle laws of the State of North
Carolina.
   (L)   Golf carts are neither designed for nor manufactured to be used on
public streets, and the City of Asheboro neither advocates nor endorses the
golf cart as a safe means of travel on public streets, roads, and highways. Any
person who operates or rides upon a golf cart on a public street, road, or
highway within the city, or encourages others to use a golf cart owned by the
individual for such purposes and activities, does so at his or her own risk and
peril and assumes all liability resulting from the operation of the golf cart.
   (M)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
(Ord. 10 ORD 2-10, passed 2-4-10; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as an infraction shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
71.01   Determination and marking of areas in which parking prohibited or
regulated
   
71.02   Stopping, standing, and parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
71.03   Stopping, standing and parking prohibited at certain places
   
71.04   General parking regulations and prohibitions
   
71.05   Posting of no parking areas on private property
   
71.06   Parking within marked spaces
   
71.07   Parallel parking; distance from curb
   
71.08   Parking at left curbs
   
71.09   When stopping of vehicles in streets prohibited
   
71.10   Stopping or standing not to interfere with traffic
   
71.11   Interference with pedestrian traffic on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
71.12   No parking at any time; yellow curbs
   
71.13   One hour parking limit at any time
   
71.14   [Reserved for future use]
   
71.15   [Reserved for future use]
   
71.16   Parking spaces reserved for bus stops, taxicab stands and other
specified purposes
   
71.17   Where angle parking required
   
71.18   Parking within loading zones
   
71.19   Overtime parking prohibited
   
71.20   Manner of emergence from parking places
   
71.21   When parking lights required
   
71.22   No parking allowed on certain days between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m. along a certain portion of West Walker Avenue
Parking
   
71.30   Definitions
   
71.31   Marked spaces
   
71.32   City may provide free parking space
   
71.33   [Reserved for future use]
   
71.34   [Reserved for future use]
   
71.35   Moving of vehicle to evade parking requirements
   
71.36   Reports by police officers and issuance of violation citations
City Parking Lots
   
71.50   Public necessity
   
71.51   Use by general public
   
71.52   Use of marked space required
   
71.53   Days and hours regulated
   
71.54   Violations
   
71.55   Financing of lots
 
   
71.99   Penalty
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 71.01 DETERMINATION AND MARKING OF AREAS IN WHICH PARKING PROHIBITED OR
REGULATED.
   (A)   Pursuant to instructions given to him by the City Council from time to
time and entered in the council minute book, the City Manager shall:
      (1)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
prohibited during prescribed time periods at all times to be posted
accordingly, or cause the curbs thereof to be painted yellow. He shall then
notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the description of such streets or parts
of streets in Schedule 1 of §
72.02.
         (2)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
limited to one hour during prescribed time periods at all times to be posted
accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets or parts of streets in Schedule 2 of §
72.02
      (3)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
limited to two hours during prescribed time periods or at all times to be
posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets or parts of streets in Schedule 3 of §
72.02.
      (4)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
limited to 15 minutes at during prescribed time periods any time to be posted
accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets and parts of streets in Schedule 4 of §
72.02.
      (5)   Cause all areas designated as taxicab stands, bus stops, loading
zones, reserved parking spaces and similar limited- purpose parking areas to be
posted or marked accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall
enter the description and limitation of such areas in schedule 5 of §
72.02.
      (6) Cause all streets and parts of streets where angle parking shall be
required to be marked or posted so as to indicate where and at what angles
vehicles shall be parked. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter
the description of such streets and parts of streets, and the angle-parking
requirements thereof, in Schedule 13 of §
72.02.
      (7)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
limited to 30 minutes during prescribed time periods or at any time to be
posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets and parts of streets in Schedule 18 of §
72.02.
      (8)   Cause all streets and parts of streets where parking shall be
limited to four hours during prescribed time periods or at any time to be
posted accordingly. He shall then notify the City Clerk, who shall enter the
description of such streets and parts of streets in Schedule 21 of §
72.02.
   (B)   The City Manager, and the Chief of Police through the City Manager,
shall from time to time recommend to the City Council such proposed amendments
to Schedules 1 through 21 of §
72.02 as they shall deem necessary for the benefit of the city.
('69 Code, § 12-28) (Am. Ord. 54 ORD 12-06, passed 12-7-06; Am. Ord. 74 ORD 11-
22, passed 11-10-22)
§ 71.02 STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, or repairing, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency;
      (3)   The storing thereof by garages, dealers, or any individuals such
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of such vehicle;
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another; or
      (5)   Advertising.
   (B)   Each separate violation of this section is punishable as an
infraction. Each day any violation of this section shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. This section may be also enforced by any
appropriate, equitable action.
   (C)   Any act constituting a violation of this section shall also subject
the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If the offender fails to pay this
penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be
recovered by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
('69 Code, § 12-29) (Am. Ord. passed 7-12-90; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-
9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device in any of the following places.
      (1)   On a sidewalk.
      (2)   Within an intersection.
      (3)   On a crosswalk.
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic
control signal located at the side of a street or roadway.
      (5)   Underpass approaches. No vehicle shall park on either side of any
street approaching a railroad underpass or overhead bridge or within 50 feet in
any direction of the outer edge of such underpass or overhead bridge.
      (6)   Grade crossing approaches. No vehicle shall park on either side of
any street approaching a grade crossing within 50 feet of the closest rail;
provided, that where existing permanent structures are located along the street
and closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted in front of such structures,
unless otherwise prohibited, if such parking does not interfere with the view
in either direction of an approaching locomotive or train.
      (7)   Beside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (8)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure.
      (9)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theatre, hospital, sanatorium, or any public building.
      (10)   On the roadway side of any vehicle standing or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-30) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General requirements. When parking a vehicle on a public street or
highway within the city, every vehicle shall be parked parallel to the curb and
with both front and rear wheels not more than 12 inches from the curb except
where the street is marked for diagonal or angle parking. Parking space lines
shall be observed so that the vehicle shall neither extend beyond the space
marked for parking nor occupy, in whole or in part, more than one parking
space. Except as noted in division (D) below, parking contrary to these general
requirements is unlawful.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PARK OR PARKING.  The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, in
any manner other than temporarily stopping for the purposes of avoiding
conflict with other traffic, complying with the direction of a law enforcement
officer or traffic control sign or signal, or while actually engaged in loading
or unloading.
      STANDING.  Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
      VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   (C)   Specific prohibitions for purposes of clarification and not
limitation.
      (1)   Parking within ten feet of a fire hydrant is prohibited.
      (2)   Parking within a nonparking space is prohibited.
      (3)   Diagonal parking with rear to curb is prohibited. This regulation
shall not apply to vehicles while actually being loaded or unloaded; provided,
that no unnecessary time for the loading or unloading shall be taken and
traffic is not obstructed thereby. If the vehicle be horse-drawn, the horse or
horses shall stand parallel to the curb and face the direction of traffic.
      (4)   Parking to the left within the business district is prohibited,
except upon one-way streets, in which case vehicles shall be parked headed in
the direction of traffic.
      (5)   Double parking is prohibited; that is to say, it is unlawful to
park alongside another vehicle that is already parked parallel to the curb and
thereby cause an obstruction.
      (6)   The parking of a vehicle in the travel lane(s) of a public street
or highway is expressly prohibited when such an action impedes the efforts of
city forces and/or North Carolina Department of Transportation personnel to
clear public streets and highways of snow, ice, or any other form of frozen
precipitation. The parking of a vehicle in violation of this prohibition is
unlawful and subjects the offending vehicle to removal and storage. The
registered owner of the towed vehicle shall become liable for the removal and
storage fees/charges. All of the post-towing procedures prescribed by G.S. Ch.
20, Article 7A apply.
   (D)   Exceptions and limitations to the general requirements:
      (1)   Those worshipping at the First Presbyterian Church of Asheboro may
for Sunday morning services diagonally park their vehicles on Walker Avenue.
However, under no circumstances are any vehicles to be diagonally parked after
1:00 p.m. each Sunday.
      (2)   This section shall apply only to vehicles on the streets, highways
and other public places of the city, and shall have no application to any
vehicle as long as it remains on private premises.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-31) (Am. Ord. 03 ORD 3-14, passed 3-6-14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 POSTING OF NO PARKING AREAS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Parking in violation of signs prohibited. No person shall stop, leave
standing, or park a motor vehicle in the area specified in this section in
violation of posted signs, when signs are placed, erected or installed giving
notice that stopping, standing or parking is regulated, prohibited, or
prohibited during certain hours, in that space or area.
   (B)   Locations designated. The following locations are designated as "no
parking" spaces: (Area and time of parking restrictions to be described--
Schedule 17 of §
72.02).
   (C)   Cost of signs. The cost of erecting or installing signs, and the cost
of all necessary signs as determine by the Chief of Police shall be paid for by
the individual requesting regulations.
   (D)   Enforcement. A violation of this section is punishable as an
infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-31.1) (Ord., passed 10-4-79; Am. Ord., passed 9-12-85; Am. Ord.
36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 PARKING WITHIN MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking
spaces for vehicles, vehicles shall be parked between such lines.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-32) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 PARALLEL PARKING; DISTANCE FROM CURB.
   (A)   Where not otherwise indicated in this chapter and where the street is
not marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-33) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 PARKING AT LEFT CURBS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-34) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 WHEN STOPPING OF VEHICLES IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking
as prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the
approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, by the approach of a funeral or
other procession which is given the right of way, by the stopping of a public
conveyance or school bus, by the lowering of railway gates, by the giving of
traffic signals, the passing of some other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some
emergency; and in any case covered by these exceptions such vehicles shall not
stop so as to obstruct any footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or
street intersection if stopping can be avoided with safety.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-35) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 STOPPING OR STANDING NOT TO INTERFERE WITH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall stop a vehicle on any street so as to interrupt or
interfere with the passage of traffic.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-36) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.11 INTERFERENCE WITH PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Obstructing traffic by stopping or standing a vehicle across or on, in
whole or in part, any sidewalk or crosswalk for pedestrians is prohibited.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-37) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 NO PARKING AT ANY TIME; YELLOW CURBS.
   (A)   When authorized signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
that parking is prohibited at all times, or the curbing has been painted yellow
in lieu of such signage, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon all
streets or parts of streets so designated.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-38) (Am. Ord. 54 ORD 12-06, passed 12-7-06; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.13 ONE HOUR PARKING LIMIT AT ANY TIME.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act prohibited by this
chapter, specifically including without limitation parking in violation of the
restrictions authorized by §
71.01. For the purposes of determining whether a person has compiled with the
parking restrictions authorized by §
71.01, thechanging of the position of a vehicle from one point directly to
another point within the same block shall be deemed one continuous parking
period.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-39) (Am. Ord. 54 ORD 12-06, passed 12-7-06; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.14 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 71.15 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 71.16 PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR BUS STOPS, TAXICAB STANDS AND OTHER
SPECIFIED PURPOSES.
   (A)   Those streets or parts of streets described in Schedule 5 of §
72.02 shall be reserved as stands for the specific purpose and at the exact
location named therein, and no vehicle shall park therein except those for
which the space or stand has been designated.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-42) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 WHERE ANGLE PARKING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where an angle parking zone has been established on a street or
portion of a street and described in Schedule 13 of §
72.02, vehicles shall be parked within the marked spaces at the indicated angle
with the curb of either approximately 30°, 45°, 60°, or 90°. The provisions of
this section of
Chapter 71 shall not be deemed to be applicable to the parking authorized and
regulated by §
71.04(a) of this chapter along Walker Avenue for persons attending Sunday
morning services at the First Presbyterian Church of Asheboro.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-43) (Am. Ord. 66-03, passed 6-19-03; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21,
passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PARKING WITHIN LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of material within any place marked as a loading zone. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 20 minutes.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-44) (Ord., passed 7-6-59; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 OVERTIME PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking beyond the time limited by any authorized sign placard,
erected or installed giving notice thereof is prohibited.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-45) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 MANNER OF EMERGENCE FROM PARKING PLACES.
   (A)   Cars parked shall move out in the direction in which they are headed,
or if they are parked at any angle with the curb they shall back out on that
angle until they have cleared the other cars and shall proceed in the direction
they are most nearly headed in.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-46) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 WHEN PARKING LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   The displaying of parking lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at
night upon a street of the city in accordance with this chapter, shall be
required except when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a
distance of 200 feet upon such street.
('69 Code, § 12-47) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 NO PARKING ALLOWED ON CERTAIN DAYS BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 7:00 A.M. AND
4:00 P.M. ALONG A CERTAIN PORTION OF WEST WALKER AVENUE.
   (A)   With the exception of Saturdays, Sundays, and any calendar day when
the Asheboro City Schools are not scheduled to be in session for students, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. upon
any portion of the north side of West Walker Avenue that is situated between a
point located 128 feet east from the center of South Park Street and a point
located 376 feet east from the center of South Park Street.
   (B)   With the exception of Saturdays, Sundays, and any calendar day when
the Asheboro City Schools are not scheduled to be in session for students, no
person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. upon
any portion of the south side of West Walker Avenue that is situated between a
point located 84 feet east from the center of South Park Street and a point
located 686 feet east from the center of South Park Street; provided, however,
the preceding prohibitionof parking on the south side of West Walker Avenue
shall not be deemed applicable to those vehicles engaged exclusively in the
immediate and uninterrupted loading and unloading of passengers, materials, and
cargo.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the term VEHICLE shall be deemed to
mean every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or street.
   (D)   Upon the effective date of this section, the City Manager shall post
the portions of West Walker Avenue specified in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section with signs that are placed, erected, and/or installed in a manner
designed to give notice of the prohibitions of parking specified by this
section.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
(Ord. 4-03, passed 4-10-03; Am. Ord. 8-03, passed 8-7-03; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21)
PARKING
§ 71.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED AREA. Church Street from Hoover to Hill; Sunset Avenue from Davis
to Fayetteville; Fayetteville Street from Academy to Salisbury; Worth Street
from Fayetteville to Cox; and North Street from Sunset to Trade.
   PARKING SPACE; INDIVIDUAL PARKING SPACE. A portion of the paved surface of
the street of  sufficient length and depth from the sidewalk curb to
accommodate a vehicle to be parked, as shall be specified and marked off by
direction of the City Manager.
('69 Code, § 12-48) (Ord. 186, passed 7-8-48)
§ 71.31 MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby directed to designate and mark off such
individual parking spaces as he deems proper along the streets in the congested
area for the parking of vehicles. At each place where individual parking spaces
are so marked off, each vehicle shall be parked entirely within an individual
parking space. When, in the opinion of the City Manager, any individual parking
space no longer serves its intended purpose, he or she shall obliterate the
markings thereof.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-49) (Ord. 186, passed 7-8-48; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-
9-21)
§ 71.32 CITY MAY PROVIDE FREE PARKING SPACE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting the city from
providing for free parking space for loading and unloading, for taxicab or bus
stands, and for other matters of similar nature.
('69 Code, § 12-61) (Ord. 186, passed 7-8-48)
§ 71.33 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 71.34 RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
§ 71.35 MOVING OF VEHICLE TO EVADE PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall move a vehicle from one parking space directly to
another parking space within the same city block to evade parking regulations.
The movement of a vehicle from one parking space directly to another parking
space within the same block shall be deemed as a continuous parking period.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
(Ord., passed 2-6-92; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.36 REPORTS BY POLICE OFFICERS AND ISSUANCE OF VIOLATION CITATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city, acting in
accordance with instructions issued by the City Manager, to report:
      (1)   The general location of each parking space where the vehicle
occupying the parking space is or has been parking in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The state license number and make of such vehicle;
      (3)   The time during which such vehicle is parked in violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
   (B)   Each such police officer shall attach to such vehicle a notice to the
owner or operator thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of a
provision of this chapter and instructing such owner or operator to report at
the City Police Department in regard to such violation for payment of civil
penalty.
(Ord. passed 2-6-92)
CITY PARKING LOTS
§ 71.50 PUBLIC NECESSITY.
   It is herewith determined that municipal off-street parking facilities are a
public necessity within the city.
('69 Code, § 12-62) (Ord. passed 2-9-56)
§ 71.51 USE BY GENERAL PUBLIC.
   The off-street parking facilities provided by the city are made available to
the general public for the parking thereon of motor vehicles, subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 12-63) (Ord. passed 2-9-56)
§ 71.52 USE OF MARKED SPACE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be parked within any city parking lot except
completely within a space therein marked and designated for the parking of a
vehicle.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-64) (Ord., passed 2-9-56; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.53 DAYS AND HOURS REGULATED.
   (A)   With the exception of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, the
regulation of parking within city parking lots shall be effective and
enforceable daily between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, and pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-302, as modified by Session Law 2012-105, the following
supplemental regulations are applicable to the municipal parking lot that is
accessed from South Church Street and is part of the Downtown Farmers' Market
facility located at 134 South Church Street:
      (1)   The parking of motor vehicles, other than city-owned motor
vehicles, in the Downtown Farmers' Market facility parking lot for a time
period in excess of 24 consecutive hours is prohibited.
      (2)   On the days of the week when the Downtown Farmers' Market is in
operation (Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday), it is unlawful for any motor
vehicle, other than city-owned motor vehicles, to be parked in the Downtown
Farmers' Market facility parking lot between the hours of 4:30 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. With the exception of city-owned motor vehicles, any and all motor
vehicles found in the parking lot of the Downtown Farmers' Market facility
between the hours of 4:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. may be removed from the parking
lot at the direction of a city police officer to a place of storage and the
registered owner of the motor vehicle shall become liable for the removal and
storage fees/charges.
      (3)   When a motor vehicle is towed pursuant to §
71.53(B)(2), the person or company that tows the motor vehicle at the request
of a city police officer is responsible for collecting any removal/towing and
storage fees. All of the post-towing procedures prescribed by G.S. Ch. 20, Art.
7A apply. If a court of competent jurisdiction finds that no probable cause
existed for the towing of a motor vehicle, the city shall compensate the tower
for the fees/charges that are directly attributable to the Asheboro police
officer's direction to tow the motor vehicle from the parking lot.
      (4)   The parking regulations found in §
71.53(B) shall be prominently displayed at the vehicular entrance to the
Downtown Farmers' Market facility parking lot by means of a sign that is no
smaller than 24 inches by 24 inches.
      (5)   For purposes of interpreting this subsection, the definition of
"motor vehicle" found in G.S. § 20-4.01 shall be the controlling definition.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-66) (Ord., passed 2-9-56; Am. Ord. 49 ORD 10-10, passed 10-7-
10; Am. Ord. 20 ORD 7-12, passed 7-12-12; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21)
§ 71.54 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person
to park a motor vehicle in any space within a city parking lot other than in
those spaces designated as parking spaces, or to park for a longer period of
time within such designated spaces than indicated by any authorized sign
placed, erected or installed; and any person violating any of the terms of this
subchapter shall be guilty of an offense against this subchapter.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as an infraction.
('69 Code, § 12-67) (Ord., passed 2-9-56 ; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.55 FINANCING OF LOTS.
   Such funds as may be necessary for the improvement and development of any
city parking lot as an off-street parking lot may be appropriated from nontax
revenues and the funds necessary for the maintenance of such off-street parking
lot, and the rental thereof, shall be derived from the proceeds realized from
the operation of such parking facilities.
('69 Code, § 12-68) (Ord. passed 2-9-56)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically
designated as an infraction shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4;
provided, however, any person found responsible for an infraction pursuant to
the prima facie rule of evidence for the enforcement of parking regulations
found in G.S. § 20-162.1 shall be subject to a penalty of not more than $5.
   (B)   There shall be an established civil penalty in the amount of $5 for
each violation specified in this chapter. This civil penalty may be recovered
by the city in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not
pay the penalty within the time period prescribed by this section. When the
city receives proper payment of a parking ticket within seven days of the
issuance of the ticket, the owner’s liability thereunto shall be discharged. If
payment is not received within seven days of the issuance of the parking
ticket, such ticket shall be considered delinquent and shall be subject to an
additional penalty of $5 plus court costs necessary to insure collection. The
parking citation shall have printed upon its face a statement that “payment is
due within seven days from the date of issuance; failure to comply will result
in an additional penalty of $5 and court costs.” Acceptance and payment of the
additional penalty by the vehicle’s owner shall be deemed a full and final
release of any and all claims or right of action arising out of the parking
violation.
   (C)   The ordinance provisions in this chapter may be enforced by any one,
all, or a combination of the remedies authorized by this section.
   (D)   Each day’s continuing violation of an ordinance provision in this
chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord., passed 2-6-92; Am. Ord. 04 ORD 1-18, passed 1-11-18; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 72: SCHEDULES
Section
   
72.01   Schedules adopted
   
72.02   Enumerated by subject matter
   
72.03   Availability to public
   
72.04   Duty of City Clerk to maintain schedules
   
72.05   Effect of errors and omissions
§ 72.01 SCHEDULES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Schedules 1 through 12, inclusive, Chapter 6, of the Asheboro City
Code, 1940, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the effective date of
this Code, are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as fully
as if they were set out at length herein.
   (B)   Schedule 13, Chapter 6, Asheboro City Code, 1940, as added to such
Code and as amended and in effect immediately prior to the effective date of
this Code, is hereby incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as fully
as if it were set out at length herein.
   (C)   All ordinances, resolutions and orders of the City Council providing
for the erection of "children playing" signs and "yield right of way" signs,
and those establishing speed limitations, which were in effect immediately
prior to the effective date of this Code, are hereby continued in full force
and effect and are incorporated in Schedules 14, 15 and 16, respectively, of
this chapter as fully as if they were set out at length herein.
('69 Code, § 12-104)
§ 72.02 ENUMERATED BY SUBJECT MATTER.
   Schedule 1. Where parking prohibited at all times.
   Schedule 2. Where parking limited to one hour at any time.
   Schedule 3. Where parking limited to two hours.
   Schedule 4. Where parking limited to 15 minutes at any time.
   Schedule 5. Places reserved for stands for specific purposes.
   Schedule 6. Through streets.
   Schedule 7. Stop intersections.
   Schedule 8. One-way streets.
   Schedule 9. Where left turns to be made at left of center of intersection.
   Schedule 10. Intersections at which left turns prohibited.
   Schedule 11. Intersections at which right turns prohibited.
   Schedule 12. Intersections at which U turns prohibited.
   Schedule 13. Places where angle parking required.
   Schedule 14. Places where "children playing" signs erected.
   Schedule 15. Places where "yield right of way" signs erected.
   Schedule 16. Speed restrictions.
   Schedule 17. Parking prohibited on privately owned property.
   Schedule 18. Parking limited to 30 minutes at any time.
   Schedule 19. Restrictions on use of play vehicles on private property.
   Schedule 20. Municipal off-street parking lot regulations (adopted on or
after October 1, 2010).
   Schedule 21.   Where parking limited to four hours.
('69 Code, § 12-105) (Am. Ord., passed 2-6-92; Am. Ord. 72-03, passed 9-4-03;
Am. Ord. 33-05, passed 7-14-05 ; Am. Ord. 54 ORD 12-06, passed 12-7-06; Am.
Ord. 04 ORD 1-07, passed 1-4-07; Am. Ord. 49 ORD 10-10, passed 10-7-10; Am.
Ord. 74 ORD 11-22, passed 11-10-22)
§ 72.03 AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC.
   All schedules mentioned in this chapter shall be maintained on file in the
office of the City Clerk and shall there be available to the public for
inspection and use during all regular business hours.
('69 Code, § 12-107)
§ 72.04 DUTY OF CITY CLERK TO MAINTAIN SCHEDULES.
   The City Clerk, upon notice from the City Manager that any schedule
mentioned in this chapter has been amended or repealed, in whole or in part,
shall promptly take such action as may be necessary to make such schedule
reflect its true current status.
('69 Code, § 12-108)
§ 72.05 EFFECT OF ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   The schedules in this chapter are included for the purpose of convenience
only, and no error in or omission from any schedule shall constitute a defense
in any case involving failure to comply with any warning, instruction,
directive, limitation or prohibition indicated by any official traffic control
device or other authorized sign, signal, device or marking.
('69 Code, § 12-109)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
         
91.   ANIMALS
         
92.   CEMETERIES
         
93.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
         
94.   FAIR HOUSING
         
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
96.   NUISANCES AND NOISE
         
97.   PARADES
         
98.   CULTURAL AND RECREATION SERVICES
         
99.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
100.   YARD SALES
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Objectives
   
90.02   Administration
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.06   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.08   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.10   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.11   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.12   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.13   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.15   Exceptions
   
90.16   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 90.01 OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The City Council is authorized by G.S. § 160A- 193, G.S. § 160A-303
and G.S. § 160A-303.2 to regulate, restrain or prohibit abandoned, nuisance and
junked motor vehicles on public and private property within the city's
ordinance-making jurisdiction.
   (B)   The City Council finds it necessary and desirable to promote or
enhance:
      (1)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
city;
      (2)   The protection of property values throughout the city;
      (3)   The preservation of the livability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
      (4)   The promotion of tourism, conventions, and other opportunities for
economic development for the city;
      (5)   The attractiveness of the city's thoroughfares and commercial roads
which present the primary, public visibility to visitors and to passers-by of
the city; and
      (6)   The promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
occupants of property in the vicinity of junked motor vehicles.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Planning and Community Development Department
shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and
highways within the city and on property owned by the city. The Planning and
Community Development Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of"abandoned", "nuisance" or "junked motor vehicles"
located on private property. The city may, on an annual basis, contract with
private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose
of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in
compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit the legal authority or powers of officers of the
Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise
carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90; Am. Ord. 25-04, passed 7-8-04)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer than
24 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. Any sworn law enforcement officer operating under the
command and control of the city Police Department or the Planning and Community
Development Department's Code Enforcement Officer, respectively.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2 the
term, junked motor vehicle means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that does not
display a current license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be any of the following:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats,
snakes or other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as tanks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over (i.e. on jacks, blocks or other supports);
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood
or area appearance; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the City Council.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90; Am. Ord. 25-04, passed 7-8-04)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the proper authorizing official may determine that
a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the proper authorizing official may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, it shall be unlawful
for the registered owner or person entitled to the possession of a junked motor
vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which
a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on
the property after the vehicle has been ordered removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the proper authorizing official, may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle as in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits
of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other
relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the city's zoning ordinance if the junked motor vehicle
is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from abutting
premises by an acceptable covering or screening. The proper authorizing
official has the authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is
adequately concealed as required by this provision. The covering or screening
must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering
or screening must be compatible with the objectives stated in §
90.01.
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle cannot be seen from a public street
or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a lawful,
nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to the
lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.08, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notices shall retain a written record to show
the names and addresses to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such names and
addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned
motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some
other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the vehicle
will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will be
removed by the city on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the City Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.08 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice includes:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (1) through (5) above,
shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address, unless this
notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notice him of the information set forth in divisions (1)
through (5) above.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.10 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive such hearing
requests, The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.11 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.12 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in
accordance with G.S. Article 1 of Chapter 44A.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.13 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the proper authorizing official. The city may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.14 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard"
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act",
G.S. § 136-141, et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise;
   (D)   Which is used on a regular basis for personal use; or
   (E)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90)
§ 90.16 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove
from any storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been
impounded pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing
and impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been
paid.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 04-90, passed 4-5-90; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose and title
   
91.02   Jurisdiction
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Administration of Animal Control Services
   
91.05   General responsibilities of Animal Control Unit; personal liability of
municipal officers, agents, employees
   
91.06   Inspections and prohibition of interference with animal control
officers
   
91.07   Impoundment
   
91.08   Bird sanctuary created
   
91.09   Signs erected by bird clubs
   
91.10   Use of firearms at Lake Reese
   
91.11   Hunting prohibited on property beyond the city limits
   
91.12   Abandoned animals
   
91.13   Wild and dangerous animals
   
91.14   Exotic reptiles
   
91.15   Exotic mammals
   
91.16   Animal bite and notification; rabies control
   
91.17   Dangerous dogs
   
91.18   Nuisance animals
   
91.19   Disposal of carcasses
   
91.20   Animal abuse prohibited
   
91.21   Prohibition of domestic animals at large
   
91.22   Confinement of female dogs and cats in estrus
   
91.23   Responsibility for animals on public property and the property of
others
   
91.24   Maximum number of dogs on premises
   
91.25   Maximum number of cats on premises
   
91.26   Keeping swine
   
91.27   Keeping of domestic fowl
   
91.28   Keeping of horses, mules, donkeys, cows and goats regulated
   
91.29   Location of stables; tethering of horses, mules, donkeys, cows or goats
   
91.30   Animals prohibited at Randolph Arts Guild's Annual Fall Festival
   
91.31   Exceptions
   
91.32   Remedies and penalties
   
91.33   Appeals
§ 91.01 PURPOSE AND TITLE.
   (A)   Pursuant to authority granted by the North Carolina General Assembly,
this animal control chapter is enacted to regulate, restrict, or prohibit, if
necessary, animals; to protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray,
roaming, dangerous, wild, or exotic animals; to make unlawful certain acts of
animals that interfere with the enjoyment of property or the peace and safety
of the city; to protect animals from abuse or conditions harmful to their well-
being; and to carry out any other lawful duties authorized by state laws and
applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Animal control functions are to be performed by city personnel in
partnership with the Randolph County Health Department which conducts animal
control operations in accordance with the applicable federal and state laws and
in accordance with the County Animal Control Ordinance.
   (C)   This chapter has been adopted in order to accomplish the above-stated
purposes by enacting an animal control ordinance that is enforced by city
personnel and is tailored to address the animal control issues that arise in
the more densely populated urban setting of the city.
   (D)   This chapter may be referred to as the "City of Asheboro Animal
Control Ordinance."
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.02 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter applies within the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro and
upon and within all property owned by the city.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases are defined and
shall be construed as set forth below, unless it is apparent from the context
that a different meaning is intended.
   ABANDON. To intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or negligently leave an
animal at a location for more than 48 consecutive hours without providing for
the animal's continued care.
   ADEQUATE FEED. The provision at suitable intervals of a quantity of
wholesome foodstuff that is suitable for the species and age of each animal and
is sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. When evaluating the shelter provided for a domestic canine
or a domestic feline, a structure with a minimum of three sides, a roof, and a
bottom used to house the animal and protect it from the weather. ADEQUATE
SHELTER means, when evaluating the shelter provided for any animal other than a
domestic canine or a domestic feline, an enclosure sufficient to provide
shelter from extremes of weather and a means to remain cool, dry, and
comfortable.
   ADEQUATE WATER. The provision of, or ready access to, a supply of clean,
fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner 24 hours a day.
   ANIMAL. Every vertebrate nonhuman species of animal, wild or domestic, male
or female, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, livestock and other
mammals, domestic fowl, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Persons charged by the city with enforcing all
sections of this chapter and applicable state laws pertaining to animal
control.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. Any holding or other facility designated by the City
Manager, or designee, for the detention of animals.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT or UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal confined within a
vehicle; any animal confined by means of a secure enclosure or an electronic
enclosure within the real property limits of its owner; or any animal secured
by leash or lead, cage, bridle, or similar physical restraint sufficient to
allow the animal to be controlled. Electronic leashes or training collars do
not constitute restraint.
   AT LARGE. Any animal found off of the property of its owner and not under
restraint; any animal previously determined to be dangerous or potentially
dangerous that is not under restraint when off the property of its owner or is
not confined to a secure enclosure while on the property of its owner; and any
animal off the owner's property and on an electronic leash or training collar.
   BITE. The act of an animal seizing flesh with its teeth or jaws, so as to
tear, pierce or injure the flesh.
   BUSINESS DAYS. Monday through Friday, inclusive, and excluding local, state,
and national legal holidays;
   CATS. Domestic felines.
   CHICKEN. Any of the common domestic birds or fowl of the species Gallus
gallus domesticus whose eggs or flesh are used for food (also referred to as
POULTRY). The female bird is called a hen.
   COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE.  The ordinance entitled "An Ordinance
Governing the General Control of Animals in Randolph County" that was adopted
by the Randolph County Board of Commissioners on January 10, 2000, and
subsequently amended on June 5, 2000, September 5, 2000, March 11, 2002, July
7, 2003, August 4, 2003, October 4, 2004, January 7, 2008, July 7, 2008, and
July 11, 2011. Pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122 and Asheboro City Council Resolution
Number 12 RES 3-12, the said County Animal Control Ordinance, including any
future amendments that may be made to the county ordinance by the Randolph
County Board of Commissioners, is applicable within the corporate limits of the
City of Asheboro.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, without provocation, has killed or inflicted
severe injury on a person or killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic
animal when not on the owner's real property, or approached a person when not
on the owner's real property in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent
attitude of attack.
   DOG. Domestic canines.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Those species of animals that normally and customarily
share human habitat in Randolph County and are normally dependent on humans for
food and shelter in Randolph County, such as but not limited to cats, dogs,
cattle, horses, swine, domestic fowl, sheep, and goats.
   DOMESTIC FOWL. Includes, but not be limited to, turkeys, geese, chickens,
peacocks, guinea fowl, or ducks.
   ELECTRONIC ENCLOSURE. Underground electrical wire which, when used in
connection with a pet collar or other device, keeps cats or dogs confined
within the limits of the wire on private property. A sign giving notice that an
electronic fence is in use must be posted in a manner that complies with the
requirements of the city's sign ordinance at some location on the property that
is visible from the public right-of-way.
   EXOTIC MAMMALS. All mammals designated by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, Department of Agriculture, or other federal or state public
health protection agencies as embargoed or prohibited under legal protection
orders. No reference or regulation in this chapter applies to exotic mammals
under the control of the North Carolina Zoological Park.
   EXOTIC REPTILES. All reptiles not native to North Carolina. No reference or
regulation in this chapter applies to exotic reptiles under the control of the
North Carolina Zoological Park.
   IMMEDIATELY. At once, very close in time.
   IMPOUNDMENT, IMPOUND, IMPOUNDED or IMPOUNDING. Terms utilized in this
chapter to mean the possession or seizure of an animal or animals by the Animal
Control Unit for placement in the Animal Control Shelter or other appropriate
facility.
   IN ESTRUS. A female animal in what is commonly called "heat" or "in season."
   INOCULATION. The administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian
or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
   KENNEL, DEALER or BREEDER. Any person, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, or other type of legal entity engaged in buying, selling,
breeding, or boarding animals.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but shall not be limited to, equine animals, bovine
animals, sheep, goats, llamas, and swine as set forth in G.S. Ch. 68, Art. 3.
   NIGHTTIME.  The time each day from sunset until sunrise.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, or any type of legal entity owning,
keeping, harboring, possessing, or acting as keeper or custodian of an animal
for 72 hours or more, unless the animal is boarded for a fee at a duly licensed
facility.
   OWNER'S PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, cluster home, apartment complex, or townhouse development, nor
does it include the common area of a subdivision or other housing project. A
motor vehicle is not a part of the owner's property unless it is physically
located on the area described in a deed of conveyance or the area described in
a lease. A motor vehicle that is physically located in or on any common areas
as described above, or on any other public areas shall be treated as being off
of the owner's property.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or any legal entity, including nonprofit
corporations.
   PROVOCATION.  Does not include any actions on the part of an individual that
pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense, and provocation must be clearly
established.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. An enclosure from which an animal cannot escape by means
of digging under or jumping over the enclosure, or otherwise becoming free
unless freed by the owner. Neither a motor vehicle nor an electronic enclosure
shall constitute a secure enclosure.
   TETHERING. The act of tying, chaining or restraining a dog to a fixed object
with a rope, chain or other device in order to keep the dog confined.
   TRESPASS. The victim has wrongfully invaded the property of the owner. The
reason the individual is on the property and any other relevant circumstances
shall be considered in order to determine whether or not a trespass has
occurred. A child under the age of seven shall not be deemed to be a
trespasser.
   WILD AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Animals of the cat, bear, and wolf species and
nonhuman primates that are normally born and live in wild habitat, even though
such species may be raised and kept in captivity. No reference or regulation in
this chapter applies to wild and dangerous animals that are under the control
of the North Carolina Zoological Park.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 05 ORD 3-16, passed 3- 10-16; Am.
Ord. 22 ORD. 10-16, passed 10-6-16)
§ 91.04 ADMINISTRATION OF ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES.
   (A)   The city Police Department is responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter through the department's Animal Control Unit (sometimes referred to as
the "Unit") and the non- sworn animal control officers employed therein. All of
the Police Department's sworn officers and non-sworn animal control officers
shall have all powers, responsibilities, and immunities granted by law and this
chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police ("Chief") shall be the chief animal control
officer charged with enforcing this chapter. The Chief is authorized to
initiate legal action to enforce this chapter. The Chief may delegate any of
the powers granted herein to any member of the Animal Control Unit or the
Police Department. Any act done by an animal control officer or a member of the
Police Department that is within the scope of this chapter shall be considered
the official act of the Chief.
   (C)   The non-sworn animal control officers referenced above in division (A)
are not authorized to carry on their person any firearms, but they are
authorized to store at the Animal Control Unit offices, or carry in
departmental vehicles, firearms approved for use when necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable laws for the control of wild,
vicious, dangerous, or diseased animals. The non-sworn animal control officers
are authorized to store drugs, chemicals, and equipment at the Animal Control
Unit offices as necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter or other
applicable laws for the control of wild, vicious, dangerous, or diseased
animals. The non-sworn animal control officers shall not have the power of
arrest, but shall have all rights, powers, and immunities as described in this
chapter. Due to the fact that the non-sworn members of the Unit only have that
limited authority described in this chapter, these members of the Police
Department shall not be considered police officers or sworn law enforcement
officers for purposes of evaluating the animal control officers' eligibility
for benefits provided to sworn law enforcement officers.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.05 GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL UNIT; PERSONAL LIABILITY OF
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS, AGENTS, EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Unit is hereby authorized and directed to undertake
and discharge the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Enforcing and carrying out within the city the provisions of this
chapter, any other ordinance assigning animal control duties, and all relevant
state laws in addition to coordinating and cooperating with the Randolph County
Health Department and other law enforcement agencies in so doing;
      (2)   Canvassing the city, including dwellings, businesses, and
institutions located within the city as necessary and practical, for the
purpose of ascertaining that all dogs and cats in the city are adequately
inoculated against rabies and for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with
this chapter and state statutes;
      (3)   Investigating complaints with regard to animals covered by this
chapter and protecting animals from abuse;
      (4)   Seizing, relocating, and/or impounding, when necessary, any animals
in the city involved in a violation of this chapter or any other ordinance or
state law. In addition, employees may scan the animal and utilize any
information that may be available through a microchip to locate the owner of
the animal, if possible;
      (5)   Keeping, or causing to be kept, accurate records of seizures,
relocations, impoundments, dispositions of animals coming into the custody of
the Animal Control Unit, violations, complaints, investigations, and monies
collected; and
      (6)   Issuing citations and orders and assessing civil penalties for
violations of this chapter and when otherwise authorized by law.
   (B)   Except as may be otherwise provided by federal or state law, no
officer, agent, or employee of the city charged with the duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable law shall be personally liable
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of such duties.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.06 INSPECTIONS AND PROHIBITION OF INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL
OFFICERS.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or other applicable law, or whenever an animal
control officer has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any violation of this chapter or other applicable
law, the animal control officer is empowered to enter and inspect such property
at any reasonable time and perform any duty imposed upon them by this chapter
or other applicable law, but only if the consent of the occupant or owner of
the property is freely given or an administrative search warrant or criminal
search warrant is obtained as follows:
      (1)   If such property is occupied, the animal control officer shall
first present credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the
reasons for the request; or
      (2)   If such property is unoccupied, the animal control officer shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
control of the property, present proper credentials, and request entry,
explaining the reasons for the request; and
      (3)   If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having control or charge of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, an animal control officer may obtain an appropriate warrant to
conduct a search or inspection of the property or seizure on the property.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, and so long as the animal
control officer's actions are consistent with federal and state constitutional
and statutory protections afforded to persons and their property, an animal
control officer shall have the authority to enter upon any land to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, specifically including the seizure of animals
running at large or to take enforcement action due to any other violation of an
applicable animal control law if the violation of such a law is being committed
in the presence of the officer and requires immediate action on the part of the
officer to protect the health or safety of the animal or the public. In the
case of animals at large, so long as the animal is within sight of the officer,
this section shall not be interpreted to require that a warrant be obtained
before seizing the animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder, resist,
or obstruct employees of the Animal Control Unit while they are carrying out
any duty created under this chapter or other applicable animal control law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal from any employee of
the Animal Control Unit any animal for the purpose of evading the requirements
of this chapter or any other applicable animal control law.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to show, upon request,
proof of a required rabies inoculation to any employee of the Animal Control
Unit.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to seek to release, attempt to release,
or to release any animal in the custody of the Animal Control Unit, except as
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter. An animal captured in a trap
set by the Animal Control Unit shall be deemed to be in the custody of the
Animal Control Unit.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   In performing the duties assigned by this chapter, the Chief may
impound any seized animal. The Chief may also impound any animals released by
their owners to the city.
   (B)   If an animal is impounded for any reason other than the voluntary
release of the animal by the owner to the city, the Chief will use all
reasonable means to promptly notify the owner(s) of the impoundment of the
animal.
   (C)   The processing, release, and euthanasia, if necessary, of impounded
animals delivered to the Animal Shelter shall be conducted in strict compliance
with the County Animal Control Ordinance and any regulations established by the
Randolph County Health Director.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.08 BIRD SANCTUARY CREATED.
   (A)   The territory embraced within the corporate limits of the city and all
lands owned by the city outside of the corporate limits are hereby designated
as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   Within the bird sanctuary established by division (A) of this section,
it shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally hunt, kill, trap, or
otherwise take any native wild birds.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this
section, the protection afforded to native wild birds within the established
sanctuary does not extend to the following situations:
      (1)   No bird classed as a pest under G.S. Ch. 113, Art. 22A and the
Structural Pest Control Act of North Carolina of 1955 or the North Carolina
Pesticide Law of 1971 is protected;
      (2)   A person may hunt, kill, trap, or otherwise take any bird pursuant
to a permit issued by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission under
G.S. § 113-274(c)(1a) or under any other license or permit of the Wildlife
Resources Commission specifically made valid for use in taking birds within the
city limits; and
      (3)   The use of a firearm for hunting ducks and dark geese (includes
Canada geese and white-fronted geese) is permitted at Lake Reese when such
hunting is undertaken in compliance with §
91.10 of the Code of Asheboro.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.09 SIGNS ERECTED BY BIRD CLUBS.
   Bird clubs in the city are hereby granted permission to erect artistic
signs, giving notice of the regulations provided in this chapter, at such
places and of such design as may be approved by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.10 USE OF FIREARMS AT LAKE REESE.
   (A)   In its discretion, the City Council may approve specific date(s) and
time(s) each year when the hunting of ducks and dark geese (including Canada
geese and white-fronted geese) is allowed upon the waters of Lake Reese.
   (B)   During the date(s) and time(s) of the hunting season authorized by the
City Council in accordance with division (A) of this section, the use of a gun
for the limited purpose of hunting ducks and dark geese (including Canada geese
and white-fronted geese) upon the waters of Lake Reese is permitted. Any guns
and ammunition used for such hunting shall comply with all applicable state and
federal regulations.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.11 HUNTING PROHIBITED ON PROPERTY BEYOND THE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally hunt, trap, or snare, with or without
firearms, animals on any city-owned property that is located outside the city
limits.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, the following activities
are permitted on city-owned property located outside the city limits:
      (1)   Fishing that is conducted in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, and local statutes, ordinances, and regulations, specifically
including without limitation the regulations adopted by the city's Recreation
Services Department, is permitted upon the waters of Lake Reese and Lake Lucas;
      (2)   Duck and dark geese (including Canada geese and white-fronted
geese) hunting is permitted upon the waters of Lake Reese only during the date
(s) and time(s) established by the City Council prior to the season opening
each year; and
      (3)   City employees and/or contractors may hunt, trap, or snare animals
in compliance with the adopted rules and regulations of the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission when such action is deemed necessary by the City
Manager in order to ensure the safe and efficient operation of city-owned
infrastructure.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.12 ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, possessing, or harboring
an animal to abandon that animal.
   (B)   If the Animal Control Unit finds that an animal has been abandoned,
the animal may be impounded. If the animal has been abandoned in a house or
within a fenced area, the Unit must make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or manager of the property. If the property owner or manager is not the
animal owner, then the Unit shall secure permission to remove the animal from
the person who occupies the property. If the person who occupies the property
is the animal owner and cannot be located or refuses to give permission to
remove the animal, the animal control officer shall secure an appropriate
warrant to seize the animal.
   (C)   An animal seized pursuant to this section shall be impounded as
provided in §
91.07.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.13 WILD AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to possess or harbor a wild and
dangerous animal or their hybrids.
   (B)   Wild and dangerous animals privately owned and maintained within the
city limits on or before April 1, 2012 may remain in the city, but such wild
and dangerous animals must be registered with the Animal Control Section of the
Randolph County Health Department. Furthermore, at the time of registration,
owners must submit a recapture plan in the event their animal escapes. Breeding
or allowing the reproduction of wild and dangerous animals is prohibited.
   (C)   Escapes of wild and dangerous animals must be immediately reported to
911 emergency communications.
   (D)   Owners are liable for costs to agencies associated with the recapture
of an escaped wild and dangerous animal.
   (E)   In order for the owner of a wild and dangerous animal registered in
compliance with division (B) of this section to lawfully house such an animal
within the city, strict compliance must be maintained at all times with the
following requirements:
      (1)   The enclosure housing the animal must securely contain the animal,
including secondary containment from escape;
      (2)   The enclosure housing the animal must be adequately ventilated,
cooled, heated, lighted, and constructed so that it may be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition;
      (3)   The enclosure housing the animal must be compliant with the
Asheboro Zoning Ordinance;
      (4)   The physical and psychological health and well-being of the animal
must not be endangered by the manner of confinement;
      (5)   The keeper/caregiver must have adequate knowledge of the
nutritional, physical, and behavioral needs of the species in his or her care;
and
      (6)   The owner/caregiver must be able to identify the veterinarian
providing medical care for the animal.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.14 EXOTIC REPTILES.
   (A)   Individuals must be greater than 18 years of age to own a venomous
exotic reptile or an exotic reptile weighing in excess of 40 pounds.
   (B)   Owners are required to report to 911 emergency communications any
escapes of venomous exotic reptiles and exotic reptiles weighing in excess of
40 pounds.
   (C)   It is unlawful for exotic reptiles to run loose unsupervised.
   (D)   Owners are required to register venomous exotic reptiles with the
Animal Control Section of the Randolph County Health Department which notifies
911 emergency communications of the location of venomous reptiles in order to
protect rescue workers and the public during any emergency situations.
   (E)   Owners are liable for costs to agencies associated with the recapture
of an escaped exotic reptile.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.15 EXOTIC MAMMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to possess, sell, or harbor an exotic
mammal or their hybrids.
   (B)   Exotic mammals privately owned prior to any embargo or protection
orders may remain in the city if so allowed by the order, but such animals must
be registered with the Animal Control Section of the Randolph County Health
Department.
   (C)   Breeding or allowing the reproduction of exotic mammals is prohibited.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.16 ANIMAL BITE AND NOTIFICATION; RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an animal to bite a human being who does not
ordinarily reside on the premises of the animal unless the animal has been
subject to provocation or unless the victim has been trespassing.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to fail to report to the Animal Control
Unit as soon as possible that an animal has bitten a person.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to fail to inform the Animal Control
Unit of the location to which an animal that has bitten a human being has been
taken if the owner has given the animal away, or caused in any way the animal
to be taken from the owner's premises.
   (D)   The Animal Control Unit shall ensure that all bite notifications are
forwarded to the Randolph County Health Department and shall fully cooperate,
assist, and strictly comply with all of the rabies control measures required by
all applicable state laws and regulations, the County Animal Control Ordinance,
specifically including without limitation the county ordinance's quarantine and
confinement/destruction measures, and any orders issued by the Randolph County
Health Director.
   (E)   In furtherance of the prevention component of rabies control, the
following prevention measures are required. It is unlawful for an owner to fail
to comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   In accordance with state law, the owner of every dog, cat, and
ferret over four months of age shall have the animal vaccinated against rabies.
The time or times of vaccination shall be established by the North Carolina
Commission for Health Services, or any successor entity to this Commission;
      (2)   As required by G.S. § 130A-190(a), dogs and cats shall wear rabies
vaccination tags at all times. The rabies vaccination tag shall show the year
issued, a vaccination number, the words "North Carolina" or the initials
"N.C.," and the words "rabies vaccine;" and
      (3)   Ferrets are not required to wear the rabies inoculation tags, but
the owner of a ferret shall maintain the tag or the rabies vaccination
certificate as written evidence to prove the ferret has a current rabies
inoculation and shall produce such tag or certificate as requested by animal
control and as otherwise required by law.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.17 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   In order to fully and effectively implement the provisions of G.S. Ch.
67, Art. 1A pertaining to dangerous dogs, the Randolph County Health Director
is hereby designated as the person responsible for determining within the city
when a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The appeals board to hear any
appeal from such a decision by the Randolph County Health Director is the
appeals board established pursuant to and in accordance with the County Animal
Control Ordinance.
   (B)   Any and all additional requirements established in the County Animal
Control Ordinance for dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs are to be fully
implemented within the city.
   (C)   The Chief is to provide full cooperation and assistance to the
Randolph County Health Director with implementing G.S. Ch. 67, Art. 1A and the
County Animal Control Ordinance in relation to dangerous dogs and potentially
dangerous dogs.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.18 NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess, harbor, or
maintain an animal or group of animals in such a manner as to unreasonably
annoy humans, endanger the life or health of other persons or animals, or
substantially interfere with the rights of other citizens to the enjoyment of
life or property. By way of example and not of limitation, the following
activities are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are, therefore,
unlawful:
      (1)   Allowing an animal to get into or turn over waste or garbage
containers;
      (2)   Allowing an animal to repeatedly walk on or sleep on the automobile
of another;
      (3)   Allowing an animal to damage the real or personal property of
anyone other than its owner;
      (4)   Allowing an animal to repeatedly be or run at large;
      (5)   Maintaining an animal in an unsanitary condition so as to render
the animal noxious or offensive to sight or smell;
      (6)   Not confining an animal to a building or secure enclosure while the
animal is in estrus;
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that is vicious or failing to effectively
prevent an animal from chasing, snapping at, attacking, or otherwise molesting
others, including pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers, or
domestic animals;
      (8)   Allowing or permitting an animal or group of animals to make
frequent or long continued sounds, including barking, whining, screeching,
calling, howling, or yowling in an excessive, continuous, habitual, or untimely
fashion; or to make other noise in such a manner and at such intervals so as to
result in a serious annoyance or interference with the reasonable use and
enjoyment of neighboring premises (such sounds shall be collectively referred
to as "annoying sound"). For illustrative purposes and without limitation, any
such sound made by cats or dogs for more than 15 minutes during any 30-minute
period shall be deemed to be an annoying sound. The normal clucking of chickens
that are otherwise kept in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Asheboro shall not constitute an annoying sound. Any person owning, using, or
possessing premises affected by an annoying sound ("person annoyed by sounds")
shall follow the procedures specified in division (E) below;
      (9)   Housing or restraining an animal less than five feet from a public
street, road, or sidewalk such that the animal, without provocation, molests,
attacks, or otherwise interferes with the freedom of movement of persons in a
public right-of-way, or the location of the animal poses a threat to the
general safety, health, and welfare of the general public;
      (10)   Keeping an animal that is diseased and creating a threat to the
public health; and
      (11)   Keeping or maintaining an animal or group of animals in such a
manner as to attract excessive insects, pests, rodents, raccoons, snakes, or
other wild animals.
   (B)   Upon the initiative of an animal control officer or upon receipt of a
detailed complaint made to the Animal Control Unit by any of the city's
residents that any person is maintaining a nuisance animal or animals, the
Animal Control Unit may cause the owner of the animal or animals in question to
be notified that a complaint has been received and may cause the situation
complained of to be investigated and a report and findings thereon to be
reduced to writing by the investigating animal control officer. Notwithstanding
any other provision in this section, any person other than an animal control
officer who wants to initiate a complaint pertaining to a nuisance animal or
group of animals engaged in the activity described in division (A)(8) above
shall follow the procedures specified in division (E) below.
   (C)   If the written findings of the investigating animal control officer
indicate that the complaint is justified, then the Chief or designee shall
cause the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to be so
notified in writing, served by personal delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, and ordered to abate such nuisance within a reasonable time
that is not to exceed seven days after notification. A citation may, in the
discretion of the Animal Control Unit, be issued at the same time for a
violation of this chapter or any other animal control law. The Chief may
specify the particular abatement measures that must be taken, which measures
may include, but are not limited to, a requirement that the animal be penned or
that a secure enclosure be erected or improved. In the event the owner of the
animal is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice and order, along with a
general description of the animal, shall be published in a local newspaper.
   (D)   If any person actually or constructively receiving notice in the
manner herein described shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance upon order
of the Chief within the specified time, the Chief may cause any of the remedies
and enforcement measures authorized by this chapter to be utilized in order to
bring about an abatement of the nuisance.
   (E)   If a complaint pertains to annoying sound, the person annoyed by the
sound shall follow the procedures specified below:
      (1)   Upon receipt of a detailed written and signed complaint by the
person annoyed by the sound, the Animal Control Unit shall provide written
notice to the owner or possessor of the premises on which the animal(s) making
an annoying sound is maintained ("animal owner") that a complaint has been
received about the animal's (animals') annoying sound. The notice shall detail
the complaint and may make suggestions on ways to correct the situation;
      (2)   Upon receipt of such notice of complaint, the animal owner shall
cure the violation. If the violation is not cured, or if a second complaint is
made to the Animal Control Unit about the same animal(s) within any six-month
period, the Animal Control Unit shall cause the animal owner to be served with
an order to abate the annoying sound within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed seven days ("abatement order"). Such notice shall be served by personal
delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested; and
      (3)   If the original complainant, or any other affected person notifies
the Animal Control Unit that the animal owner has failed or refuses to abate
the annoying sound as provided in the abatement order, the Animal Control Unit
shall investigate and may utilize any of the remedies and enforcement measures
authorized by this chapter to bring about an abatement of the nuisance.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a private citizen from bringing
an action at any time against an animal owner.
   (G)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.19 DISPOSAL OF CARCASSES.
   The bodies of dead animals, or the parts of any dead animals, shall be
removed from the city immediately or no later than 24 hours of known death and
shall be disposed of by incineration, burial, or transportation to a rendering
plant. If a carcass is buried, it shall be buried at a depth of not less than
three feet below the surface of the ground and shall not be buried within 300
feet of a stream or body of water.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.20 ANIMAL ABUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept and treated under sanitary and humane
conditions, and it shall be unlawful for any owner to engage in one or more of
the following acts:
      (1)   Failing to provide adequate feed, water, and shelter for an animal;
      (2)   Confining an animal in a storage room, shed, or other building
without proper ventilation and access to natural light;
      (3)   Failing to keep an animal under sanitary and humane conditions that
promote the animal's health and general welfare and which maintain a condition
of good order and cleanliness that reduces the possibility of the transmission
of disease;
      (4)   Failing or refusing to provide adequate medical attention for any
sick, diseased, or injured animal;
      (5)   Poisoning or exposing a domestic animal to any known poisonous
substance or mixing a poisonous substance with food so that it will likely be
eaten by a domestic animal. This prohibition does not include attempts or acts
of persons to lawfully rid their own property of mice or rats or other vermin,
nor does it include other acts permitted by the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission;
      (6)   Allowing a collar, rope, or chain to become embedded in or cause
injury to an animal's neck, or allowing a choke or pinch collar to be used as a
primary collar on an unsupervised animal;
      (7)   Allowing an animal to be chained or tethered such that the animal
is not confined to the owner's property or such that the chain or tether can
become entangled and prevent the animal from moving about freely, lying down
comfortably, or having access to adequate food, water, and shelter; and
      (8)   Placing or confining an animal or allowing an animal to be placed
or confined in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such a period of
time as to endanger the health or well-being of such animal due to temperature,
lack of food or drink, or such other conditions as may reasonably be expected
to cause suffering, disability, or death.
   (B)   Subject to the following divisions that contain limitations and
clarifications of the general prohibition found in this subsection, the
tethering of one or more dogs as a method of keeping the dog(s) on the owner's
or owners' property is unlawful:
      (1)   The owner(s) may tether a dog or dogs for a reasonable period of
time to allow for waste elimination;
      (2)   The owner(s) may tether a dog or dogs on a runner for a reasonable
period of time to allow the dog(s) to exercise;
      (3)   The owner(s) may tether a dog or dogs during an emergency situation
when such a situation is found by the animal control unit to have been caused
by unique circumstances triggering an isolated occurrence as opposed to a
repeat occurrence that provides evidence of a pattern of non-compliance with
the city's anti-tethering regulations; and
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter and without
exception, the tethering of a dog on a 24-hour a day basis is unlawful. For the
sole and limited purpose of evaluating the validity of the assessment of a
civil penalty pursuant to the provisions found in this chapter, the observation
by an animal control officer of a tethered dog or dogs on the same property
during the same approximate time of day (a variation in the time of day of no
more than one hour shall be regarded as the same approximate time of day, e.g.
observing a dog at 10:30 a.m. on one day and at 11:15 a.m. on the next day is
considered to be the same approximate time of day) on consecutive calendar days
shall be prima facie evidence that the observed dog(s) have been unlawfully
tethered for 24 hours.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the following
activities:
      (1)   The humane transportation of horses, cattle, sheep, poultry, or
other livestock in trailers or other vehicles designed, constructed, and
adequate for the size and number of animals being transported;
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Animal
Control Unit, law enforcement officers, employees of the Randolph County Health
Department, or veterinarians from euthanizing dangerous, unwanted, injured, or
diseased animals in a humane manner; and
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
slaughterhouses or medical facilities from the proper, humane, and lawful
carrying out of their activities or duties.
   (D)   The Animal Control Unit shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of pet shops, kennels, dealers, or breeders, to the extent not
preempted by state law, in order to determine if there is any abuse of animals.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or employee of any pet shop or kennel or any
dealers or breeders to violate this section.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 05 ORD 3-16, passed 3-10-16)
§ 91.21 PROHIBITION OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to allow such
animal to be or run at large in the city or on any city property.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.22 CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN ESTRUS.
   Every female dog and cat, while in estrus, shall be confined in a building
or secure enclosure in such manner that she will not be in contact with another
dog or cat, as the case may be, nor create a nuisance by attracting other
animals; provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the
owner of an animal being bred.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
§ 91.23 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANIMALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY AND THE PROPERTY OF
OTHERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of an animal to fail
to remove feces deposited by the animal on either of the following types of
property:
      (1)   Any public street, sidewalk, gutter, park, or other publicly owned
property; or
      (2)   Any property owned or legally controlled by another person or
entity that has not given permission for entry onto the property by the animal
that defecated on the property.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.24 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain more than
three dogs per household on any parcel of land or zoning lot having less than
30,000 square feet, and an additional 7,000 square feet shall be required for
each additional dog. A total of no more than five dogs per household shall be
allowed on any parcel of land or zoning lot within the city limits regardless
of square footage.
   (B)   The limitation prescribed by this section on the number of dogs per
household on a single parcel of land or zoning lot shall not apply to dogs that
are less than six months of age.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, and subject to the
limitation that, on or after April 1, 2012, no new or additional dogs that
would increase or perpetuate the noncompliance of a household with this section
may be kept or maintained in a household, any dog lawfully kept or maintained
as part of a household located within the corporate limits of the City of
Asheboro prior to April 1, 2012 may continue to be kept or maintained as part
of the same household for the remainder of the dog's life.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.25 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF CATS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain more than
three cats per household on any parcel of land or zoning lot having less than
30,000 square feet, and an additional 7,000 square feet shall be required for
each additional cat. A total of no more than five cats per household shall be
allowed on any parcel of land or zoning lot within the city limits regardless
of square footage.
   (B)   The limitation prescribed by this section on the number of cats per
household on a single parcel of land or zoning lot shall not apply to cats that
are less than six months of age.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions, and subject to the
limitation that, on or after April 1, 2012, no new or additional cats that
would increase or perpetuate the noncompliance of a household with this Section
may be kept or maintained in a household, any cat lawfully kept or maintained
as part of a household located within the corporate limits of the City of
Asheboro prior to April 1, 2012 may continue to be kept or maintained as part
of the same household for the remainder of the cat's life.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.26 KEEPING SWINE.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to keep any hogs, pigs, or swine within the city
limits.
   (B)   A person may have or keep no more than two miniature or potbellied
pigs per household within the corporate limits of the city if the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The miniature or potbellied pig(s) must be provided with adequate
shelter to protect the pig(s) from the elements.
      (2)   Any and all miniature or potbellied pigs kept or maintained in the
City of Asheboro must be spayed or neutered.
      (3)   The owner of the miniature or potbellied pig(s) shall provide the
pig(s) with access to food and clean water. Active measures shall be taken to
limit the availability of this food and water to rodents, wild birds, and
predators.
      (4)   If an outdoor pen or enclosure is utilized, the dimensions of such
a pen or enclosure must be no less than 10 feet by 12 feet for one pig or no
less than 16 feet by 16 feet for two pigs.
      (5)   No outdoor pen or enclosure, including without limitation fencing,
used for sheltering or confining a miniature or potbellied pig is permitted
within 30 feet of any property line or public street right-of-way line, and no
such outdoor pen or enclosure may be located within 100 feet of a hospital,
school, eating establishment, or dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner
of the miniature or potbellied pig. These separation requirements are in
addition to and not in lieu of the land use regulations prescribed by the
Asheboro Zoning Ordinance. No provision in this chapter shall be construed or
interpreted in any manner that preempts or impacts the application of the land
use regulations found in the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (6)   A pen or enclosure used for sheltering or confining a miniature or
potbellied pig shall be kept clean, sanitary, and free from accumulations of
animal excrement that cause an objectionable odor. Such a pen or enclosure
shall be cleaned at least twice each week. All waste material removed from a
pen or enclosure used to shelter the miniature or potbellied pig shall be
disposed of in a manner that is lawful, does not attract flies, and prevents
any detectable odor at the property or street right-of-way line.
      (7)   All food kept for feeding the miniature or potbellied pig(s) shall
be kept and stored in rat-free and rat- proof containers, compartments, or
rooms unless kept in a rat- proof building.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.27 KEEPING OF DOMESTIC FOWL.
   (A)   Up to two chicken hens or other fowl may be kept by a household within
the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro so long as the fowl do not, by
reason of noise, odor, or attraction of flies, become a nuisance or health
hazard.
   (B)   Between three and eight chicken hens or other fowl may be kept on any
single lot or parcel in the city if the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The fowl shall not be permitted to run at large and must be
maintained in a coop or enclosure of suitable construction and size for the
number of fowl maintained in the enclosure.
      (2)   The fowl must be provided with adequate shelter for protection from
the elements.
      (3)   The owner of the fowl shall provide the animal with access to food
and clean water. Active measures shall be taken to limit the availability of
this food and water to rodents, wild birds, and predators.
      (4)   No outdoor coop or enclosure used for keeping fowl is permitted
within 30 feet of any property line or public street right-of-way line, and no
such outdoor coop or enclosure may be located within 100 feet of a hospital,
school, eating establishment, or dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner
of the fowl. These separation requirements are in addition to and not in lieu
of the land use regulations prescribed by the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance. No
provision in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted in any manner that
preempts or impacts the application of the land use regulations found in the
Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   A coop or enclosure used for keeping fowl shall be kept clean,
sanitary, and free from accumulations of animal excrement that cause an
objectionable odor. Such a pen or enclosure shall be cleaned at least twice
each week. All waste material removed from a pen or enclosure used for keeping
fowl shall be disposed of in a manner that is lawful, does not attract flies,
and prevents any detectable odor at the property or street right-of-way line.
      (6)   All food kept for feeding the fowl shall be kept and stored in rat-
free and rat-proof containers, compartments, or rooms unless kept in a rat-
proof building.
   (C)   Due to the excessive noise created by the following animals, the
keeping of roosters and geese is prohibited within the corporate limits of the
City of Asheboro.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.28 KEEPING OF HORSES, MULES, DONKEYS, COWS, AND GOATS REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, operates, or maintains a
stable or enclosure in the city, in which horses, mules, donkeys, cows, or
goats are kept, to keep such stable in an unclean or unsanitary condition. The
person who owns, operates, or maintains such a stable or enclosure shall be
responsible for providing for use within the stable or enclosure a bin or pit
which shall be watertight and so arranged that it is fly-proof, or,
alternatively, shall provide a watertight barrel with a close-fitting lid.
Manure accumulating in such stable shall be placed in the bin, pit, or barrel
each day and shall be removed from the premises of the owner at least every
five days. Effective fly control methods such as the use of approved
insecticide shall be practiced during the fly-breeding period from April 15 to
November 1 of each year. All food kept for feeding the livestock shall be kept
and stored in rat-free and rat-proof containers, compartments, or rooms unless
kept in a rat-proof building.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.29 LOCATION OF STABLES; TETHERING OF HORSES, MULES, DONKEYS, COWS, OR
GOATS.
   (A)   No person shall locate or maintain upon any lot within the city any
horse, mule, donkey, cow, or goat stable nearer than 150 feet to any hospital,
school, eating establishment, or dwelling; nor shall any person tether or
permit to graze or stand any horse, mule, donkey, cow, or goat within 50 feet
of any such place.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.30 ANIMALS PROHIBITED AT RANDOLPH ARTS GUILD'S ANNUAL FALL FESTIVAL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to possess any animal(s) within the
public areas of the city that are actively utilized for the Randolph Arts
Guild's Annual Fall Festival, and it is also unlawful for any person with an
animal within the public areas of the city that are actively utilized for the
Randolph Arts Guild's Annual Fall Festival to fail to obey the command of a law
enforcement officer or an animal control officer to remove such an animal from
the area in which animals are prohibited by this section. Furthermore, except
as provided by this section, it shall be unlawful for any person to actively
encourage or facilitate the entry or continued presence of any animal(s) within
the public areas of the city that are actively utilized for the Randolph Arts
Guild's Annual Fall Festival.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, the prohibition
of animals by this section is not applicable to the following animals:
      (1)   Any assistance animal that is trained and/or may be used to assist
a person with a disability, specifically including without limitation a
HANDICAPPED PERSON as defined in G.S. § 168-1. The term ASSISTANCE ANIMAL is
not limited to a dog and includes any animal trained to assist a person with a
disability.
      (2)   Any law enforcement/public safety agency animal that is trained and
may be used to assist a law enforcement/public safety officer in the
performance of the officer's official duties.
   (C)   The public areas of the city that are actively utilized for the
Randolph Arts Guild's Annual Fall Festival are the streets, sidewalks, and
public vehicular areas that fall within the perimeter demarcated by the
closure, upon order of the City Council, of Fayetteville Street from Salisbury
Street to Kivett Street; North Street at Salisbury Street; Sunset Avenue at
Church Street; Worth Street, Scarboro Street, East Academy Street, and Cranford
Street at Cox Street; and West Academy Street at the entrance to the city
parking lot.
   (D)   The prohibition of animals from public areas of the city that are
actively utilized for the Randolph Arts Guild's Annual Fall Festival is only in
effect during those times when the Fall Festival is scheduled to be in actual
operation.
   (E)   The City Manager shall cause notices of the prohibition of animals
from public areas of the city that are actively utilized for the Randolph Arts
Guild's Annual Fall Festival to be prominently posted at the location of the
street closures listed in division (C) above.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.31 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to the lawful taking of animals under the
jurisdiction and regulation of the North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission; lawful activities of agencies conducting or sponsoring biomedical
research or training; lawful activities of any law enforcement canine team in
the performance of their duties; or the lawful destruction of any animal for
the purpose of protecting domestic animals or humans.
   (B)   Veterinary clinics and retail pet stores are not subject to the
supplemental animal control regulations prescribed in §§
91.24 through
91.28 of this chapter. The inapplicability of the supplemental regulations
found in this chapter to these businesses does not impair or impact to any
degree the applicability to these businesses of any other provision within this
chapter or any other federal, state, or local law, ordinance, or regulation,
including by way of illustration and not limitation the County Animal Control
Ordinance and the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   In compliance with G.S. § 160A-203.1, this chapter shall not be
construed, interpreted, or enforced in any manner that regulates standards of
care for farm animals. For purposes of this subsection, STANDARDS OF CARE FOR
FARM ANIMALS includes the following: the construction, repair, or improvement
of farm animal shelter or housing; restrictions on the types of feed or
medicines that may be administered to farm animals; and exercise and social
interaction requirements. For purposes of this subsection, the term FARM
ANIMALS includes the following domesticated animals: cattle, oxen, bison,
sheep, swine, goats, horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, hinnies, llamas, alpacas,
lagomorphs, ratites, and poultry flocks of greater than 20 birds.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 22 ORD. 10-16, passed 10-6-16)
§ 91.32 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Unit must have ample authority to impose preventive
measures, seize, and impound animals. Escalating fees and other sanctions
authorized within this section are measures that have been adopted to protect
the citizens of Asheboro and to declare that the ownership of animals entails
publicly related responsibilities. When there is a violation of this chapter,
the Chief may take one or more of the courses of action set forth in this
section. The Chief may cause a complaint to be filed or any action to be
brought on behalf of the city. Any such action shall be cumulative and shall
not be deemed to be a bar to or a waiver of the right to institute any other
civil or criminal proceeding for a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically
designated as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500. Payment of a
fine imposed in a criminal proceeding initiated pursuant to this chapter does
not relieve a person of his or her liability for fees imposed by this chapter
or any other law or ordinance, specifically including without limitation fees
imposed by the County Animal Control Ordinance as a consequence of the
impoundment of an animal at the animal shelter.
   (C)   Pursuant to and consistent with G.S. § 160A-175, enforcement of the
provisions found in this chapter may include any appropriate equitable remedy,
injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   In addition to or in lieu of any criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter and any other applicable law, ordinance, or
regulation, a violation of the provisions found in this chapter may also
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter set forth:
      (1)   An animal control officer may issue to the owner or possessor of
any animal, or any other violator of this chapter, a written warning or a civil
penalty citation giving notice of the alleged violation(s). Written warnings or
civil penalty citations so issued may be served on the person charged with a
violation by means of personal delivery by the animal control officer or mailed
by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the last known
address of the person charged;
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be paid in full to the Asheboro Police
Department within 15 business days of the receipt of the civil penalty citation
that gives notice of the penalty that is due and payable. The civil penalty is
in addition to any other costs or fees imposed by this chapter or any other law
or ordinance, specifically including without limitation fees imposed by the
county animal control ordinance as a consequence of the impoundment of an
animal at the Animal Shelter;
      (3)   In the event that the owner or possessor of an animal or other
violator of this chapter does not pay the applicable civil penalty within the
prescribed time period, a civil action may be commenced to recover the penalty
and costs associated with the collection of the penalty. The Chief, or the
Chief's designee, is expressly authorized to initiate and prosecute small
claims actions in District Court to collect civil penalties and fees owed to
the city as a consequence of violation(s) of this chapter. The Chief may call
on the City Attorney for assistance as needed. In lieu of pursuing a civil
action to collect the civil penalty, a criminal summons may be issued against
the violator for violating this chapter, and, upon conviction, the violator
shall be punished in accordance with state law for the misdemeanor offense of
violating this chapter; and
      (4)   In order to encourage responsible conduct, an owner shall be
subject to escalating penalties for each violation of this chapter by the
owner, regardless of whether the animal is the same animal, a different animal,
or various animals belonging to the same owner. Each violation of this chapter
within a rolling 12-month period shall subject the owner to the following
escalating civil penalties:
   Offense            Civil Penalty Amount
   1st                  $ 35.00
   2nd                  $ 50.00
   3rd                    $100.00
   4th and subsequent offenses      $150.00
   (E)   Each violation of a specific provision of this chapter is considered a
separate offense for purposes of this section.
   (F)   Each day that a specific violation occurs is considered a separate
offense for purposes of this section.
   (G)   In addition to the above-listed remedies, domestic animals may be
seized and impounded when found at large or as otherwise provided in this
chapter. Furthermore, if conditions pose an immediate threat to the health or
safety of the animal or the public, the animal control unit is authorized to
seize and impound an animal. By way of clarification and not limitation, any
animal deemed to be abused in violation of § 91.20 shall be evaluated by the
animal control unit for signs of an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the animal, and if such a threat is found to exist, the animal shall be seized
in addition to any other remedies and penalties authorized by this section.
When an animal is seized, the following steps, at a minimum, must be taken:
      (1)   The Animal Control Unit, or some other person designated by the
Chief, shall enter into a seized animal registry maintained by the Police
Department a description of the animal that includes at least the breed, color,
and sex of such animal and whether the animal was impounded or processed in
some other manner; and
      (2)   Upon seizing an animal, a notice of seizure shall be left with the
owner or affixed to the premises. If an animal is not from a particular
premises but has an identification tag, the animal control officer shall cause
a prompt and reasonable effort to be made to locate and notify the animal's
owner.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that
cannot be reasonably seized, retrieved, humanely trapped, or tranquilized may
be humanely destroyed in the field upon the authorization of the Chief;
provided, however, an animal attacking a human being or pet may be summarily
destroyed if, in the opinion of animal control, such destruction is necessary
for the protection of life or property or for the public health and safety.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent law enforcement
officers of any kind from enforcing any of the provisions of this chapter or
from exercising their authority as law enforcement officers.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent a private citizen from bringing
an action to abate a nuisance or from bringing an action for damage, loss, or
injury to the private citizen or his or her property resulting from an animal
being a nuisance.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15; Am. Ord. 22 ORD 10-16, passed 10- 6-16; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 91.33 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person, owner, or possessor affected by an action taken by the
Animal Control Unit may request a review of such action by filing a request for
appeal with the City Manager. The only exceptions to this right of appeal to
the City Manager are attempts to appeal an action taken by the Animal Control
Unit in compliance with a court order or to appeal an action that is pending in
the criminal courts. Any appeal pertaining to a criminal case or an order from
a judicial official must be addressed in accordance with laws and rules
applicable to the court with jurisdiction to consider the matter for which
judicial review is sought.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by law, a request for appeal must be made in
writing and filed with the City Manager, with a copy to the chief, within ten
business days of the action or decision complained of and must state with
particularity the grounds for the appeal. An appeal hearing shall be scheduled
and conducted by the City Manager as soon as is practicable. Written notice of
the date, time, and location of such a hearing will be mailed to the last known
address of the person who filed the appeal.
   (C)   After conducting the hearing and considering the available evidence,
the City Manager may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, the action taken
by the Animal Control Unit. The City Manager may also modify the action(s)
taken by the animal control officer. The City Manager's decision is final, and
there shall be no appeal from the decision of the City Manager to the City
Council. The City Manager shall render a decision within five business days of
the conclusion of the hearing. The decision shall be mailed to the person
requesting the appeal and to the Chief.
   (D)   If the City Manager's decision is against the person requesting the
appeal, the Animal Control Unit shall implement the action(s) upheld by the
City Manager.
   (E)   If the decision is against the Animal Control Unit, efforts to
implement the action(s) under appeal shall immediately cease.
   (F)   A decision rendered by the City Manager applies only to the particular
action(s) appealed, and such a decision does not preclude the Animal Control
Unit from taking enforcement action in response to a subsequent violation of
the same provision or any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 02 ORD 1-15, passed 1-8-15)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Supervisor of Cemeteries; appointment, powers and duties
   
92.02   Supervisor to keep account book
   
92.03   (Reserved)
   
92.04   Human remains to be buried in cemetery
   
92.05   Sale of lots
   
92.06   Determination of prices
   
92.07   Payment prerequisite to opening of grave
   
92.08   Use of lots; regulation by City Council
   
92.09   Grade of lots not to be changed
   
92.10   Approval required for grave enclosure and planting of foliage
   
92.11   Erection of grave markers
   
92.12   Contractors to remove debris upon completion of work
   
92.13   Prohibited conduct
   
92.14   Disturbance of burial services
   
92.15   Injury to trees and shrubs
   
92.16   Deposit of trash prohibited
   
92.17   Disturbance of grave markers, walls and enclosures
   
92.18   Cemeteries not to be used as playgrounds
   
92.19   Ingress and egress; walking on walls or graves
   
92.20   Use as thoroughfare prohibited
   
92.21   Lot owners to remove debris
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 SUPERVISOR OF CEMETERIES; APPOINTMENT, POWERS AND DUTIES.
   There shall be a Supervisor of Cemeteries, to be appointed by the City
Manager, to whom shall be instructed the supervision of all cemeteries in, or
the property of, the city. The Supervisor of Cemeteries shall supervise, look
after and care for all cemeteries in or belonging to the city, in accordance
with the laws of the state, this Code and other ordinances and resolutions of
the City Council. He shall be at all times subject to dismissal by the City
Manager in like manner and to the same extent as any other municipal employee.
('69 Code, § 6-1)
§ 92.02 SUPERVISOR TO KEEP ACCOUNT BOOK.
   The Supervisor of Cemeteries shall be provided with a record book in which
he shall enter a correct and complete itemized record of all funds received by
him in his official capacity. Such record book shall be subject to inspection
at all times by the City Manager or his duly authorized representative.
('69 Code, § 6-2)
§ 92.03 (RESERVED).
§ 92.04 HUMAN REMAINS TO BE BURIED IN CEMETERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or assist in burying the
dead body of any human being within the city, except in such public or church
cemeteries as are duly established and in use as cemeteries.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 6-5) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SALE OF LOTS.
   The City Manager or his designee is hereby authorized, on behalf of and in
the name of the city, to sell and convey to would-be purchasers, any and all of
the plots in the cemeteries of the city upon presentment of documentary
evidence determined by the City Manager or his designee to satisfactorily
establish the would-be purchasers' identity and eligibility on the basis of
residency in the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro or ownership of real
property within the corporate limits of the city for certain price discounts
and upon payment in full of the purchase price placed thereon by the City
Council. The purchase price referenced in the immediately preceding sentence
shall be deemed to be the sum of the sale price for plots and burial spaces
established by the City Council in accordance with §
92.06 plus the cost incurred by the city in order to record in the Office of
the Randolph County Register of Deeds the instrument used to convey the plot(s)
and burial space(s) sold to a purchaser. No plot(s) or burial space(s) shall be
conveyed to a purchaser until the purchase price has been paid in full with
good funds, and the proceeds of sale shall forthwith be deposited in a city
depository to the credit of the city.
('69 Code, § 6-6) (Am. Ord. 15-05, passed 5-5-05)
§ 92.06 DETERMINATION OF PRICES.
   The City Council may establish the sale price of plots and burial spaces
from time to time by resolution.
('69 Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 178, passed 7-14-47)
§ 92.07 PAYMENT PREREQUISITE TO OPENING OF GRAVE.
   No grave space shall be opened until the entire purchase price of such grave
has been paid; provided, that the City Manager may permit the opening of a
grave upon suitable arrangements being made for payment of the entire purchase
price within 60 days thereafter or the funeral home may submit a letter of
financial responsibility for the grave plot to be paid within 15 days.
('69 Code, § 6-8) (Ord. passed 2-10-55)
§ 92.08 USE OF LOTS; REGULATIONS BY CITY COUNCIL.
   All deeds to cemetery plots in any city cemetery shall expressly stipulate
and provide that the lots therein described and thereby conveyed shall be used
for burial purposes only, subject to any and all regulations provided by the
City Council, with respect to the usage and enjoyment thereof, and with the
further explicit provision that the City Council shall have the right from time
to time as they may deem advisable, to alter or repeal such regulations and
make additional regulations for the purpose of exercising reasonable control
and supervision in the interest of the owners of any and all lots in the
cemetery, and the public as well, and any and all such regulations shall be
considered as effective to all intents and purposes as if in the deed written
as one of the terms thereof.
('69 Code, § 6-9)
§ 92.09 GRADE OF LOTS NOT TO BE CHANGED.
   Any person who does any work on any lot in any city cemetery shall not raise
or change the grade of such lot or grave, nor shall any grave be raised into
mounds. All graves shall be tamped at time of filling, substantially to keep
them from settling.
('69 Code, § 6-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.10 APPROVAL REQUIRED FOR GRAVE ENCLOSURE AND PLANTING OF FOLIAGE.
   No person shall enclose any grave or cemetery lot, or plant any tree or
shrub anywhere in a cemetery, except subject to the approval of the Supervisor
of Cemeteries.
('69 Code, § 6-14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.11 ERECTION OF GRAVE MARKERS.
   (A)   The installation of any kind, type, or form of grave marker or
monument within a city-owned and maintained cemetery prior to the written
issuance of a grave marker installation permit is prohibited and declared to be
unlawful. Any marker or monument installed prior to the proper issuance of a
grave marker installation permit shall be subject to immediate removal by city
forces at the cost of the owner and/or dealer placing the marker or monument.
   (B)   Prior to beginning any work to install a grave marker or monument, the
installer or employee thereof must contact the Cemetery Supervisor and procure
a written grave marker installation permit from the City of Asheboro in
accordance with the standard operating guidelines utilized by the Cemetery
Supervisor and approved by the City Manager. Any and all work performed
pursuant to a grave marker installation permit must be performed in strict
compliance with the provisions of the issued permit. In addition to any other
available remedy, any marker or monument installed in a manner that does not
comply with the issued grave marker installation permit shall be subject to
immediate removal by city forces at the cost of the owner and/or dealer
installing the marker or monument.
   (C)   No grave or plot may be marked except with a marker or monument
installed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The city expressly reserves the right to deny an application for a
grave marker installation permit when, in the sole opinion of the Cemetery
Supervisor, the proposed installation of a marker or monument does not comply
with the procedural requirements and/or technical specifications prescribed by
the standard operating guidelines utilized by the Cemetery Supervisor and
approved by the City Manager for the issuance of a grave marker installation
permit.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any plot or burial space owner, monument
dealer, funeral director, or any employee, contractor, or agent of one of the
aforementioned individuals or entities to alter to any degree the position or
manner of installation of a lawfully set monument or marker without the prior
written consent of the city. If written consent is given by the city to such an
alteration, any actions taken pursuant to such written consent must be taken in
strict compliance with the conditions stated within the document or permit
authorizing the alteration. In addition to any other available remedy, any
marker or monument altered in a manner that does not comply with this division
shall be subject to immediate removal by city forces at the cost of the owner,
monument dealer, and/or funeral director acting in contravention of the
provisions of this division.
(Ord. 10-05, passed 3-10-05; Am. Ord. 15-05, passed 5-5-05)
§ 92.12 CONTRACTORS TO REMOVE DEBRIS UPON COMPLETION OF WORK.
   Every monument builder, funeral home, or other person doing work in a
cemetery, after erecting monuments, headstones, curbing, opening graves, or
doing other work, shall remove therefrom any and all trash, excess dirt, and
material brought thereto and not used, and shall leave the grounds and lots in
as good condition as when the work was first undertaken, including removal of
routs made by trucks or other vehicles.
Penalty, see § 10.99
('69 Code, § 6-16)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.13 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do anything to disturb the
quiet and good order of any cemetery or burial place by noise or conduct of any
kind except such noise and conduct as is customary or necessary in cemeteries.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 6-17) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 DISTURBANCE OF BURIAL SERVICES. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do anything to disturb or
interfere with any burial services that may be held in any cemetery.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 6-18) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.15 INJURY TO TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wantonly cut, break, destroy or
in any way injure any tree, shrub, flowers, grass or plant growing or placed on
any plot or in any other part of any cemetery. Also, flowers shall be removed
from the ground by the plat owners two weeks before Easter of each year
(flowers may remain on the headstones).
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 DEPOSIT OF TRASH PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to walk dogs that are leashed or
unleashed, throw, deposit, bring and leave any trash, filth, offensive or
unclean matter or substance in any cemetery.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 DISTURBANCE OF GRAVE MARKERS, WALLS AND ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to in any way disturb, mutilate,
deface, injure or remove any stone marking any grave, or any wall or enclosure
around any grave in or about any cemetery.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 6-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 CEMETERIES NOT TO BE USED AS PLAYGROUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit the use of any
cemetery as a play ground or for play, and it shall be the duty of all police
officers and other employees of the city, so far as it lies within their power,
to prevent such use, and to eject any and all offenders against this section
from the cemetery, if the person shall continue to violate this section after
being warned to stop.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 6-22) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 INGRESS AND EGRESS; WALKING ON WALLS OR GRAVES.
   (A)   No person shall enter or leave a cemetery enclosure or grounds except
by the gates or other places provided for ingress and egress, nor shall anyone
mount or walk, climb or run upon the walls or fence surrounding a cemetery, nor
across the graves therein.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of the immediately preceding division
(A), the persons listed below may traverse city cemetery grounds, irrespective
of the location of graves, so long as, and only so long as, such movement is
conducted in a manner that is quiet, consistent with the good order of the
cemetery, and utilizes marked or designated pathways until the person’s reason
for traversing grounds of the city cemetery makes it strictly necessary to
cross burial space areas. The persons who may lawfully cross burial space
areas, specifically including graves, within a city-owned and operated cemetery
are as follows:
      (1)   Individuals and any equipment in their care and control that are
traversing the cemetery grounds in order to discharge work related duties as an
employee or contractor engaged in providing services that are customary and
necessary for the continued maintenance and operation of the city cemetery.
This exemption from the prohibition of walking across graces only applies to
work duties performed within and for the exclusive benefit of the city-owned
and operated cemetery.
      (2)   Individuals who have previously entered the city cemetery through
locations provided for ingress and egress and are walking through the city
cemetery grounds as pedestrians in order to attend a funeral service within the
city cemetery or at another cemetery that is not city-owned, is contiguous with
the boundary of the city cemetery, and is readily accessible from the city
cemetery.
      (3)   Individuals who have previously entered the city cemetery through
locations provided for ingress and egress and are walking through the city
cemetery grounds as pedestrians in order to visit a particular final resting
place of a deceased person interred within the city cemetery or at another
cemetery that is not city-owned, is contiguous with the boundary of the city
cemetery, and is readily accessible from the city cemetery.
   (C)   As used within this section, unless otherwise stated or unless the
context or subject matter clearly indicates otherwise, the term “cemetery”
means any one or a combination of more than one of the following in a place
used for cemetery purposes:
      (1)   A burial park for earth interment.
      (2)   A mausoleum.
      (3)   A columbarium.
('69 Code, § 6-23) (Am. Ord. 45 ORD 10-09, passed 10-8-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.20 USE AS THOROUGHFARE PROHIBITED.
   No one shall use a cemetery or road or wayherein as a public thoroughfare.
('69 Code, § 6-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21 LOT OWNERS TO REMOVE DEBRIS.
   Every lot owner who personally cultivates or tends to his lot shall remove
all trash and surplus material from the cemetery.
('69 Code, § 6-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 93: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
93.01   Emergency restrictions authorized
   
93.02   State of emergency declaration may impose prohibitions and restrictions
   
93.03   Evacuation
   
93.04   Curfew
   
93.05   Restrictions on the possession, consumption, or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
93.06   Restriction on the possession, transportation, and transfer of
dangerous weapons and substances
   
93.07   Restriction on access to areas
   
93.08   Activities prohibited or restricted
   
93.09   Effect of emergency on services
   
93.10   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
93.11   Superseding and amending declarations
   
93.12   Termination of declaration
   
93.13   Exercise of powers in absence or disability of Mayor
   
93.14   Penalty
   
93.15   Territorial applicability
§ 93.01 EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply in this chapter:
      (1)   EMERGENCY. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe
damage, injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or man-
made accidental, military, paramilitary, terrorism, weather-related, public
health, explosion-related, riot-related cause, or technological failure or
accident, including, but not limited to, a cyber incident, an explosion, a
transportation accident, a radiological accident, or a chemical or other
hazardous material incident;
      (2)   EMERGENCY AREA.  The geographical area covered by a state of
emergency; and
      (3)   STATE OF EMERGENCY. A finding and declaration by the City Council
of the City of Asheboro or the Mayor of the City of Asheboro acting under the
authority of G.S. 166A-19.22 that an emergency exists.
   (B)   In the event of an emergency, the Mayor is hereby authorized and
empowered, pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.22, to issue a state of emergency
declaration that declares to all persons the existence of a state of emergency
and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and property of people
within the city, to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter
authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit with the state
of emergency declaration the application of all or any part of such
restrictions to an emergency area specifically designated or described within
the city and to specific hours of the day or night and to exempt from all or
any part of such restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope
of their respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
squad members, and public employees; doctors, nurses, and employees of
hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether
state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities and public
transportation companies; and such other classes of persons as may be essential
to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the
safety, health, and welfare needs of people within the city.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15; Am. Ord. 13 ORD 4-20, passed 4-9-20)
§ 93.02 STATE OF EMERGENCY DECLARATION MAY IMPOSE PROHIBITIONS AND
RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. 166A-19.31, the Mayor is hereby authorized to impose,
by means of the issuance of a state of emergency declaration, the prohibitions
and restrictions specified in§§
93.03 through
93.08 of this chapter. The Mayor may impose as many of those specified
prohibitions and restrictions as he/she finds necessary, due to the emergency,
to maintain an acceptable level of public order and services and to protect
lives, safety, and property.
   (B)   The state of emergency declaration shall be in writing. The City
Manager or designees of the City Manager shall take reasonable steps to give
notice as broadly as possible of the terms of the declaration to
those affected by it as soon as is practicable. Copies of the declaration shall
be posted on the front doors or entrances of city hall, the police department
headquarters station, the fire department headquarters station, and at the city
public works facility. The efforts of city employees to provide public notice
of the declaration shall include sending, as soon as is practicable, reports of
the substance of the declaration to the mass communications media that serve
the city. A minimum of one duplicate original of the declaration shall be
furnished to the city clerk’s office at the earliest opportunity, and the city
clerk will, upon request, furnish certified copies of the declaration as soon
as is practicable.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.03 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of all
or part of the population of the city from any stricken or threatened area
within the emergency area; to prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destinations in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress
of an emergency area, the movement of persons in public areas within the
emergency area, and the occupancy of premises therein. Details of the
evacuation may be set forth or amended in a subsequent declaration which shall
be well publicized.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   The state of emergency declaration may impose a curfew prohibiting in
certain areas and during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who
is not part of an exempted class. The declaration shall specify the
geographical area and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew
applies. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions
classes of people whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare. The state of emergency
declaration shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions from which
each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the state of emergency declaration, the
curfew shall apply during the specified period each day until the Mayor by
declaration removes the curfew.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.05 RESTRICTIONS ON THE POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION, OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The state of emergency declaration may prohibit, other than on one’s own
premises, the possession or consumption of any alcoholic beverage, including
beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, and may prohibit the transfer,
transportation, sale, or purchase of any alcoholic beverage within the
emergency area. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to the transfer of
alcoholic beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores or by
anyone else within the emergency area.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 RESTRICTION ON THE POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION, AND TRANSFER OF
DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The state of emergency declaration may prohibit, with regard to a
location within the emergency area and off one’s own premises, the possession,
transportation, sale, or purchase of any dangerous weapon or substance. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people whose
possession, transportation, or transfer of certain dangerous weapons or
substances is necessary to the preservation of the public’s health, safety, or
welfare. The declaration shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions
from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter and any state of emergency declaration
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, the term “dangerous weapon or substance”
means:
      (1)   Any item that falls within the scope of the definition for
dangerous weapon or substance found in G.S. 14-288.1(2);
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property when the circumstances
indicate that there is some probability that such instrument or substance will
be so used; and
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part of
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions found herein, this chapter does
not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms or
ammunition. As used in this chapter, the term “firearm” means a handgun,
shotgun, or rifle which expels a projectile by action of an explosion.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The state of emergency declaration may prohibit accessing or
attempting to access any location within the emergency area that is designated
by an order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that access to the
designated location is denied or restricted.
   (B)   The state of emergency declaration may also provide authorization for
the closure within the emergency area of streets, roads, highways, bridges,
public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily used for vehicular traffic;
provided, however, the following conditions must be satisfied whenever this
emergency road closure authority is exercised:
      (1)   In addition to any other notice or dissemination of information,
notification of any closure of a road or public vehicular area shall be given
to the North Carolina Department of Transportation as soon as practicable; and
      (2)   The above-stated emergency road closure authority shall not
restrict the movement of emergency responders and other persons necessary for
recovery from the emergency.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, and in accordance
with G.S. 166A-19.70(c) and (d), access to and from a restricted area must be
allowed, regardless of whether a local curfew is in effect, upon the
presentation of a valid state re-entry certificate for drivers and vehicles
transporting essential goods or assisting in restoring utility services during
a state of emergency.
   (D)   Within the emergency area, the Chief of Police, or the Chief's
designee, may use the emergency road closure authority and identify locations
to which access is denied or restricted so long as the following conditions are
satisfied:
      (1)   The state of emergency declaration delegates to the Chief of
Police, or the Chief's designee, the authority to deny or restrict access to
locations within the emergency area and to exercise the emergency road closure
authority provided by G.S. 166A-19.31 and this section; and
      (2)   The Chief of Police, or the Chief's designee, has concluded that
the denial or restriction of access to a location, including the use of the
emergency
road closure authority, within the emergency area is reasonably necessary to
maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of emergency.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15; Am. Ord. 13 ORD 4-20, passed 4-9- 20)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED.
   The following activities or conditions may be prohibited or restricted
within the emergency area:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives and property within the emergency
area. To this end, the Mayor, by means of the state of emergency declaration,
may take actions other than those prohibitions or restrictions explicitly
listed and authorized in this Section when such other actions are reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives and property.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 EFFECT OF EMERGENCY ON SERVICES.
   During the time period when the state of emergency declaration is in effect,
and dependent upon the nature of the conditions at any given time, law
enforcement, fire, rescue, and any other emergency services may not be
provided.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.10 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall by declaration terminate the entire state of emergency
declaration or remove any of the prohibitions or restrictions when the
emergency no longer requires them or when directed to do so by the Asheboro
City Council.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.11 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDING DECLARATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his/her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized by
this chapter in separate declarations and may amend any declaration by means of
a superseding declaration in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
93.02.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.12 TERMINATION OF DECLARATION.
   Any state of emergency declaration issued under this chapter shall expire
five days after its last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under
the same procedures set forth in §
93.02 for declarations.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.13 EXERCISE OF POWERS IN ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or
such other person as may be designated by the Asheboro City Council, shall have
and exercise all of the powers herein given to the Mayor.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.14 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to G.S. 14-288.20A, any person violating any prohibition or
restriction imposed by a state of emergency declaration authorized by this
chapter shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
§ 93.15 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies throughout all areas over which the Asheboro City
Council has jurisdiction to enact general police-power ordinances. A state of
emergency declaration issued pursuant to this chapter may declare that the
emergency area includes all or part of the governing board’s jurisdiction.
Unless a state of emergency declaration specifies otherwise, the emergency area
will be deemed to include the entire jurisdiction.
(Ord. 20 ORD 8-15, passed 8-6-15)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Purpose
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Unlawful practices
   
94.05   Exceptions
   
94.06   Enforcement procedure; complaints
   
94.07   Agency no defense in proceeding against real estate dealer
 
   
94.99   Penalty and remedies
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Asheboro Fair
Housing Ordinance."
('69 Code, § 7.1-1) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
§ 94.02 PURPOSE.
   The general purposes of this chapter are:
      (1)   To provide for execution within the city of the policies embodied
in Title VIII of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968 as amended.
      (2)   To safeguard all individuals within the city from discrimination in
housing opportunities because of race, color, religion, national origin, or
sex; thereby to protect their interest in personal dignity and freedom from
humiliation; to secure the city against domestic strife and unrest which would
menace its democratic institutions; to preserve the public health and general
welfare; and to further the interests, rights, and privileges of individuals
within the city.
('69 Code, § 7.1-2) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any direct or indirect act or practice of exclusion,
distinction, restriction, segregation, limitation, refusal, denial, or any
other act or practice of differentiation or preference in the treatment of a
person or persons because of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex, or
the aiding, abetting, inciting, coercing, or compelling thereof.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, as defined herein, engaged in the
business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes improved and unimproved property and means a
building, structure, mobile home or trailer, or portion thereof which is used
or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home or residence of one or more individuals.
   OWNER.  A lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent, or other
person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell, rent,
or lease any housing accommodation.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER or REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. Any individual, whether licensed
or not, who on behalf of others for a fee, commission, salary or other valuable
consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, exchanges, rents, or leases any
real estate or the improvements thereon, including options, or who negotiates
or attempts to negotiate such an activity; or who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate a loan, secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance upon a transfer of
real estate, or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he
undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, exchange, rental or lease of real
estate through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose,
or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
   REAL PROPERTY. Buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, cooperatives, condominiums, and hereitaments, corporeal and
incorporeal, or any interest in the above.
('69 Code, § 7.1-3) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
§ 94.04 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful practice for a real estate owner or operator or for
a real estate broker, real estate salesman, or any individual employed by or
acting on behalf of any of the above:
   (A)   To refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (B)   To discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchased rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith; or
   (C)   To refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his
race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (D)   To refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth; or
   (E)   To represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing accommodation
because of his race, color, religion, or national origin, sex or place of
birth; or
   (F)   To make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination; or
   (G)   To offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may be subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith; or
   (H)   To induce, directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce, directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing of any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex or
national origin or place of birth in the area to be affected by such sale,
purchase, rental or lease will or may result in either:
      (1)   The lowering of property values in the area;
      (2)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      (3)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
   (I)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area
for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any such listing or any of
the above transactions; or
   (J)   To engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with other to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental
or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation; or
   (K)   To retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he
has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he has
filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter; or
   (L)   To aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person
from complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued
thereunder; or
   (M)   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter; or
   (N)   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a
person because of his race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or
place of birth; or
   (O)   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration,
or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial assistance,
because of the race, color, religion, sex, or national origin of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance
or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given; or
   (P)   To deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation
in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers' organization, or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of
such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color, religion,
sex or national origin.
('69 Code, § 7.1-4) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association, or society or any nonprofit
institution or organization operating, supervised, or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, which
limits the sale, rental, or occupancy, of dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than commercial purposes to persons of the same religion, or which
gives preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to
its primary purpose or purposes, provided lodgings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy
of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members.
   (C)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (D)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family
houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale of any
such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in such
house at the time of prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this division
shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any 24-month period;
provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does not own any
interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under any express or
voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds
from the sale or rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any
one time; provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
      (1)   Without the use of any manner of the sales or rental facilities or
the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson,
or of such facilities or services of any person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesperson, or person, and
      (2)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 United
States Code Section 3604(c) or of §
94.03; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
('69 Code, § 7.1-5) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person who claims to have been injured by an unlawful housing
practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably injured by an unlawful
housing practice that is about to occur may file a complaint with the city.
   (B)   All complaints shall be filed within 12 months after the alleged
unlawful housing practice occurred. Complaints shall be in writing and shall
state the facts upon which allegations of a violation of this chapter are
based. The respondent may file an answer to the complaint. Both complaint and
answer may be amended.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such complaint, either from the complainant or the
secretary of HUD, the Redevelopment Commission shall be designated as agent to
investigate the matter. The Redevelopment Commission shall respond within ten
days to the alleged complaint, notify the person(s) who allegedly committed or
are about to commit the unlawful housing practice and to seek to conciliate the
alleged violation.
   (D)   If the Redevelopment Commission of the city, as designated agent, is
unable to resolve the alleged discrimination within 30 days, the complainant
may file or request the city to file the complaint with the secretary of HUD
pursuant to Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and may commence a civil
action in the general court of justice for enforcement of the chapter.
('69 Code, § 7.1-6) (Ord. passed 5-4-78; Am. Ord., passed 5-6-82; Am. Ord.,
passed 9-5-91; Am. Ord. 9-93, passed 4-8-93)
§ 94.07 AGENCY NO DEFENSE IN PROCEEDING AGAINST REAL ESTATE DEALER.
   It shall be no defense to a violation of this chapter by a real estate owner
or operator, real estate broker, real estate salesperson, a financial
institution, or other person subject to the provisions of this chapter, that
the violation was requested, sought, or otherwise procured by a person not
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
('69 Code, § 7.1-8) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
§ 94.99 PENALTY AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall subject
the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of $200 to be recovered in a
civil action, provided that in the case of a continuing violation, the total
penalty shall not exceed $1,000.
   (B)   The city may sue in a civil act through the general court of justice
for appropriate remedies to enforce the provision of this chapter, including
temporary restraining orders and mandatory and prohibitory injunctions.
   (C)   In addition to appropriate civil or equitable remedies for enforcement
of this chapter, an offender may be subjected to criminal prosecution for
violation of this chapter.
('69 Code, § 7.1-7) (Ord. passed 5-4-78)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
95.01   Adoption of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code
   
95.02   Burning of leaves, brush, and trash
   
95.03   Fire Prevention Bureau
   
95.04   Compliance
   
95.05   Permit fees
   
95.06   Notices of violation and reinspection fees
   
95.07   Remedies and penalties
   
95.08   Severability
§ 95.01 ADOPTION OF THE NORTH CAROLINA FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter of the Code of Asheboro shall be referred to
as the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance. For the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions that are hazardous to life and
property because of fire and explosion, the North Carolina Fire Code, current
edition, adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council is hereby adopted
and made applicable within the territorial jurisdiction, specifically including
without limitation the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, of the city as
the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance. A copy of the North Carolina
Fire Code is on file in the office of the Chief Fire Inspector for the city.
   (B)   Appendices. The following appendices to the North Carolina Fire Code,
current edition, are hereby adopted and made applicable within the territorial
jurisdiction, specifically including without limitation the extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction, of the city as part of the City of Asheboro Fire
Prevention Ordinance:
      (1)   Appendix B - Fire-Flow Requirements for Buildings.
      (2)   Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution.
      (3)   Appendix F - Hazard Ranking.
   (C)   Permits. In addition to any and all permits mandated by the North
Carolina Fire Code, the following operational permits, which are listed as
optional within the North Carolina Fire Code, are hereby mandated within the
territorial jurisdiction, specifically including without limitation the
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, of the city as part of the City of
Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance:
      (1)   Open Burning.
      (2)   Open Flames and Torches.
      (3)   Places of Assembly.
   (D)   Amendments. When adopted and published by the North Carolina Building
Code Council, amendments to the provisions of the North Carolina Fire Code that
are adopted as part of the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance shall be
applicable within the territorial jurisdiction, specifically including without
limitation the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, of the city on the
effective date prescribed for the amendment(s) by the North Carolina Building
Code Council.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 95.02 BURNING OF LEAVES, BRUSH, AND TRASH.
   (A)   Except as authorized by this section, the burning of leaves, brush,
trash, or any other refuse is prohibited within the corporate limits. The
burning of brush for the purpose of clearing a large open area is permitted if,
and only if, the proper permit has been issued by the Fire Prevention Bureau in
accordance with all applicable laws, specifically including without limitation
the air quality laws.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 95.03 FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU.
   The City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Bureau is hereby established. The Chief
Fire Inspector shall be the chief administrator of the Fire Prevention Bureau
and as such shall supervise the fire inspectors assigned to the Fire Prevention
Bureau. In order to gain and retain employment within the Fire Prevention
Bureau, the Chief Fire Inspector and the fire inspectors under his or her
supervision must satisfy the requirements established by the North Carolina
Code Officials Qualification Board for employment as an official engaged in the
enforcement of the North Carolina State Building Code.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 1 ORD 1-25, passed 1-9-25)
§ 95.04 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with the provisions of the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention
Ordinance, specifically including the North Carolina Fire Code, shall be
enforced by the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Bureau. Failure to comply with
any of the regulations prescribed by this chapter, specifically including
without limitation the adopted regulations found in the North Carolina Fire
Code, shall be unlawful. Any and all remedies authorized by law for
noncompliance with the Fire Prevention Ordinance and the North Carolina Fire
Code, including without limitation the issuance of civil penalty citations, may
be exercised for the purpose of obtaining compliance with the applicable laws
and regulations.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 95.05 PERMIT FEES.
   During the municipal corporation’s annual budget process, the Chief Fire
Inspector is authorized to submit to the City Manager a schedule of fees for
permits issued by personnel in the Fire Prevention Bureau. If the City Manager
deems the schedule of permit fees submitted by the Chief Fire Inspector to be
reasonable, the Manager may submit the proposed schedule of permit fees to the
City Council for review. If a proposed schedule of permit fees is adopted by
the City Council, the City Manager shall designate the city official to whom
the approved permit fees are to be paid. A copy of the approved schedule of
permit fees shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk and in the
office of the Chief Fire Inspector.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 1 ORD 1-25, passed 1-9-25)
§ 95.06 NOTICES OF VIOLATION AND REINSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Notices of violation. When an inspector from the Fire Prevention
Bureau discovers a violation of the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance,
specifically including without limitation the adopted provisions of the North
Carolina Fire Code, a notice of violation may be issued to the person(s) and/or
legal entity(ies) responsible for the violation(s). Such a notice shall state,
at a minimum, the nature of the violation(s), the corrective action(s) that
must be taken in order to abate the violation(s), and the date when a
reinspection will be conducted. The date of a reinspection shall be no less
than ten business days and no more than 30 business days from the date of
service of the notice of violation on the offender by means of personal service
or certified mail, return receipt requested. During this reinspection, if a
violation has not been corrected, the person(s) and/or legal entity(ies)
responsible for the violation(s) may be issued a final notice of violation. A
final notice of violation shall state, at a minimum, the nature of the
continuing violation(s), the corrective action(s) that must be taken in order
to abate the violation(s), and the date when another reinspection will be
conducted. The date of a reinspection that is scheduled subsequent to the
issuance of a final notice of violation shall be no less than ten business days
and no more than 30 business days from the date of service of the final notice
of violation by means of personal service or certified mail, return receipt
requested. After the issuance of a final notice of violation, the inspectors
within the Fire Prevention Bureau shall continue to conduct reinspections at a
frequency of not less than ten business days and no more than 30 business days
between inspections until all violations are corrected.
   (B)   Reinspection fees. In order to recover the costs associated with
reinspections necessitated by the failure to correct a violation, a fee of $35
per reinspection shall be assessed to each offender for the second reinspection
and each subsequent reinspection that is conducted by inspectors in the Fire
Prevention Bureau during the course of an on-going enforcement action. If the
recipient of an invoice from the city for a single reinspection fee or multiple
reinspection fees that have accumulated over time fails to pay the specified
fee(s) within ten business days of the date of service of the invoice by means
of personal service or by means of certified mail, return receipt requested,
the city may initiate a civil action in the nature of debt in order to recover
any and all reinspection fees that have not been paid and are past due.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 30 ORD 9-11, passed 9-8-11)
§ 95.07 REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Citations. After a final notice of violation has been issued and a
reinspection reveals that a violation has not been corrected, the person(s) or
legal entity(ies) responsible for the violation(s) may be issued a civil
penalty citation for each offense. On and after the date of the reinspection
conducted subsequent to the service of the final notice of violation, the
offender will be guilty of an additional and separate offense for each day that
a violation continues uncorrected, and each offender that receives a civil
penalty citation is subject to a cumulative penalty for each and every offense.
A single civil penalty citation issued on the date of a reinspection may assess
the sum of the civil penalties incurred by the violator for each day that a
violation went uncorrected during the time period specified in the civil
penalty citation. If the recipient of a civil penalty citation fails to pay the
specified penalty within ten business days of the date of service of the civil
penalty citation by means of personal service or by means of certified mail,
return receipt requested, the city may initiate a civil action in the nature of
debt in order to recover the civil penalties assessed against the offender. The
amount of the civil penalty per offense shall be calculated as follows:
      (1)   Non-life safety. The civil penalty for each non-life safety offense
that is uncorrected as of the date of the post final notice of violation
reinspection shall be $50 per offense on and after the date of service of a
civil penalty citation by means of personal service or certified mail, return
receipt requested. This penalty of $50 per offense shall continue to accrue
until the earlier of either the date upon which the offender notifies the Fire
Prevention Bureau of the correction of the violation or the calendar day
immediately preceding the date of the first reinspection conducted after the
issuance of a civil penalty citation. If the violation that triggered the first
civil penalty citation has not been corrected as of the date of this
reinspection, the civil penalty for each continuing non-life safety offense
shall be $100 per offense from the date of service on the offender of a civil
penalty citation reflecting the enhanced penalty by means of personal service
or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the date on which the Fire
Prevention Bureau is notified of the correction of the violation.
      (2)   Life safety other than occupancy violations and blocked exits.
Except for occupancy violations and blocked exits, the civil penalty for each
life safety offense that is uncorrected as of the date of the post final notice
of violation reinspection shall be $150 per offense on and after the date of
service of a civil penalty citation by means of personal service or certified
mail, return receipt requested. This penalty of $150 per offense shall continue
to accrue until the earlier of either the date upon which the offender notifies
the Fire Prevention Bureau of the correction of the violation or the calendar
day immediately preceding the date of the first reinspection conducted after
the issuance of a civil penalty citation. If the violation that triggered the
first civil penalty citation has not been corrected as of the date of this
reinspection, the civil penalty for each continuing life safety offense shall
be $300 per offense from the date of service on the offender of a civil penalty
citation reflecting the enhanced penalty by means of personal service or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the date on which the Fire
Prevention Bureau is notified of the correction of the violation.
      (3)   Life safety - occupancy violations. If an inspector discovers
overcrowding of a building, or a portion thereof, on more than one occasion
during a rolling 12-month period, the offender with ownership/managerial
responsibility for the building shall be subject to the immediate assessment of
civil penalties. The person or entity receiving such a civil penalty citation
shall be subject to the continuing immediate assessment of civil penalties for
overcrowding until a 12-month time period has passed without any violations
pertaining to overcrowding. The amount of the civil penalty for overcrowding
shall be $100 per person in excess of the occupant load prescribed by the North
Carolina Fire Code. No civil penalty shall be assessed pursuant to this
division unless the offender has been previously served with a written warning
for overcrowding within the relevant 12-month period by means of personal
service or by means of certified mail, return receipt requested. None of the
provisions found within this section shall be construed or deemed to prevent an
inspector in the Fire Prevention Bureau from immediately exercising any
authority that he or she may possess under the applicable laws to summarily
abate overcrowding.
      (4)   Life safety - locked, blocked, or obstructed exits. If an inspector
discovers locked, blocked, or obstructed exits on more than one occasion during
a rolling 12-month period, the offender with ownership/managerial
responsibility for the building under inspection shall be subject to the
immediate assessment of civil penalties. The person or entity receiving such a
civil penalty citation shall be subject to the continuing immediate assessment
of civil penalties for locked, blocked, or obstructed exits until a 12-month
time period has passed without any violations pertaining to exits. The amount
of the civil penalty for life safety violations pertaining to exits shall be
$500 per locked, blocked, or obstructed exit. No civil penalty shall be
assessed pursuant to this section unless the offender has been previously
served with a written warning for locking, blocking, or obstructing an exit
within the relevant 12-month period by means of personal service or by means of
certified mail, return receipt requested. None of the provisions found within
this section shall be construed or deemed to prevent an inspector in the Fire
Prevention Bureau from immediately exercising any authority that he or she may
possess under the applicable laws to summarily correct a locked, blocked, or
obstructed exit.
   (B)   Criminal offense. Any violation of a section of this chapter that is
specifically designated as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor
punishable as provided in G.S. 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
   (C)   Equitable remedy. The City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance,
including without limitation the adopted provisions of the North Carolina Fire
Code, may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Availability of combination of remedies. The City of Asheboro Fire
Prevention Ordinance, including without limitation the adopted provisions of
the North Carolina Fire Code, may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination
of the remedies authorized and prescribed herein. No provision within the Fire
Prevention Ordinance shall be construed to impair or limit the ability of a
fire inspector to take any otherwise lawful enforcement or abatement action
available to the inspector for the purpose of abating a situation or condition
that poses an imminent threat to life and safety.
   (E)   Responsible parties. The owner, tenant, and occupant of any building
or land or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or any
other person who participates or acts in concert, assists, directs, creates, or
maintains any condition in violation of the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention
Ordinance, including without limitation the adopted provisions of the North
Carolina Fire Code, may be held responsible for such violation(s) and are
subject to the penalties and remedies herein provided.
   (F)   Appeals. In accordance with G.S. § 160D-1127, an appeal from any order
or decision of an inspector in the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Bureau
pertaining to the North Carolina State Building Code, which includes the North
Carolina Fire Code, shall be taken within a period of ten days after the
issuance of the contested order or decision to the Commissioner of Insurance or
his or her designee or other official specified in G.S. § 143-139.
   (G)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, the
enforcement mechanisms prescribed by this section are subject to the following
exceptions:
      (1)   The city will not initiate a civil action in the nature of debt
against the State of North Carolina or any of its political subdivisions in
order to recover assessed civil penalties. No other remedy authorized by this
section for a violation of the Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance is impaired
or limited by this exception.
      (2)   When violations discovered by an inspector in the City Fire
Prevention Bureau are categorized as either life safety - occupancy violations
or life safety - locked, blocked, or obstructed exits violations, the inspector
may immediately issue a civil penalty citation that provides the offender with
a written warning or assesses a civil penalty in the amount prescribed by §
95.07(A)(3) for occupancy violations or by §
95.07(A)(4) for violations pertaining to the obstruction of exits. No final
notice of violation or any other type of notice specified in §
95.06 is required prior to the issuance of a civil penalty citation for
violating occupancy limits or obstructing exits.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11; Am. Ord. 15 ORD 5-11, passed 5-5-11; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 95.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase is, for any reason,
held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of the City of Asheboro Fire Prevention Ordinance.
(Ord. 02 ORD 2-11, passed 2-10-11)
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES AND NOISE
Section
Abatement of Public Nuisances
   
96.01   Conditions constituting public nuisances
   
96.02   Investigation
   
96.03   Notice; hearing
   
96.04   Order to abate
   
96.05   Abatement by city
   
96.06   Cost for abatement by city
   
96.07   Lien
   
96.08   Abatement procedure additional to other remedies
Noise
   
96.15   Prohibited noises generally
   
96.16   Noises expressly prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
ABATEMENT OF PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 96.01 CONDITIONS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the appropriate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 12 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety.
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health.
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar items.
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county health department.
('69 Code, § 14-50) (Ord. passed 10-6-83; Am. Ord. 38 ORD 8-09, passed 8-6-09)
§ 96.02 INVESTIGATION.
   The City Manager, upon notice from any person of the possible existence of
any of the conditions described in §
96.01, shall cause to be made by the appropriate county health department
official, or city official, such investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
96.01.
('69 Code, § 14-51) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
§ 96.03 NOTICE; HEARING.
   If it appears that such conditions exist, the City Manager shall cause to be
delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which the conditions
exist a notice stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute a
violation and that a hearing will be held before the City Manager at a place
therein fixed not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the delivery or
mailing of the notice. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right
to file an answer to the notice and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
evidence at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to do
so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being
heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in such hearings.
('69 Code, § 14-52) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
§ 96.04 ORDER TO ABATE.
   If a determination is made that such conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the City Manager shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting such public nuisance and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of
such written notice.
('69 Code, § 14-53) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
§ 96.05 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of said order, the City Manager shall cause said
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the city
to go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the City Manager. Any
person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may, within the time
allowed by this chapter, request the city in writing to remove such condition,
the cost of which shall be paid by the person making such request.
('69 Code, § 14-54) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
§ 96.06 COST FOR ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   The actual cost incurred by the city in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel of land,
and it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to mail a statement to such premises
with instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
('69 Code, § 14-55) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
§ 96.07 LIEN.
   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance are
not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as provided
for in §
96.04 of this chapter, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or
premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected in accordance
with and to the fullest extent authorized by G.S. § 160A-193.
('69 Code, § 14-56) (Ord. passed 10-6-83; Am. Ord. 07 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13)
§ 96.08 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE ADDITIONAL TO OTHER REMEDIES.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the city from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
('69 Code, § 14-57) (Ord. passed 10-6-83)
NOISE
§ 96.15 PROHIBITED NOISES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the city is prohibited.
Noise of such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the
life or health of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. 165, passed 8-7-41; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-
9-21) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Noises resulting from the following acts, among others, are declared
to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of §
96.15, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in
motion, except as a danger signal; the creation by means of any such signal
device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device
for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (2)   Gongs and sirens. The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle
other than a police, fire or other emergency vehicle.
      (3)   Radios, phonographs, and the like.
         (a)   The playing of any radio, television, phonograph or musical
instrument in such a manner or with such volume as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of any person in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence.
         (b)   The playing of any radio, television, phonograph or musical
instrument in such a manner or with such volume as to disrupt and detrimentally
impact the ability of a business, commercial, or professional establishment to
conduct its lawful and proper operations.
      (4)   Animals and birds. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose
of any person in the vicinity.
      (5)   "Rattletraps" and overloaded vehicles. The use of any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to
create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
      (6)   Steam whistles. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or
as a warning of danger.
      (7)   Exhausts from engines, and the like. The discharge into open air of
the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor
vehicle or motor boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which
will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      (8)   Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device operated
by compressed air, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and
reduced.
      (9)   Work on buildings. The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration or repairing of any building in a residential section or business
district other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays,
except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety and
then only with a permit from the building inspector, which permit may be
renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency continues.
      (10)   Noises near schools, hospitals, and the like. The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
library or sanitarium, or course while in session, or within 150 feet of any
hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the operation of such institution;
provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that
they are streets upon which such institutions are located.
      (11)   Church services. The creation of any excessive noise on Sunday on
any street adjacent to any church; provided, that conspicuous signs are
displayed in such streets adjacent to churches indicating that they are streets
upon which churches are located.
      (12)   Loading and unloading vehicles, and the like. The creation of loud
and excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle, or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates or containers.
      (13)   Bells and gongs. The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any
building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the
vicinity thereof.
      (14)   Hawkers and peddlers. The shouting and crying of peddlers,
barkers, hawkers and vendors which disturbs the quiet and peace of the
neighborhood.
      (15)   Drums and attention-attracting devices. The use of a drum, loud
speaker or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention
to any performance or show, or sale or display of merchandise.
      (16)   Loud speakers or amplifiers on vehicles. The use of any mechanical
loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or other vehicles for advertising or
other purposes.
      (17)   Stationary loud speakers and amplifiers. The use of any loud
speaker or amplifier to cast or disseminate sound over the neighborhood in such
volume or of such character as to annoy or disturb persons on other premises.
      (18)   Garages and service stations. The conducting, operating or
maintaining of any garage or filling station in or in close proximity to any
residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be emitted
therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (19)   Guns, firecrackers, and the like. The firing or detonation of
squib, firecracker, gun powder or other combustible or explosive substance in
the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making noise or disturbance.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 13-2) (Ord. 165, passed 8-7-41; Am. Ord. 13-93, passed 7-8-93; Am.
Ord. 13-01, passed 11-8-01; Am. Ord. 31-02, passed 9-5-02; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 97: PARADES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Exceptions to chapter
   
97.03   Permit required
   
97.04   Application for permit
   
97.05   Standards for issuance
   
97.06   Action on permit by City Manager
   
97.07   Revocation of permit; dispersal of parade
   
97.08   Authorized hours
   
97.09   Parade route
   
97.10   Prohibited activities
   
97.11   Interference prohibited
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show or procession of any kind,
exhibition or any similar display, in or upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A written authorization as required by this chapter.
('69 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.02 EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions.
   (B)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities where any such activity is under the immediate
supervision and direction of proper school authorities.
   (C)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
('69 Code, § 15-2) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage or participate in, aid, form, start or direct
any parade unless a permit shall have been obtained from the City Manager.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 15-3) (Ord., passed 1-6-66; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Filing period. An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the City Manager not less than 14 days before the time when it is proposed to
conduct the parade; provided, that a permit may be issued if filed less than 14
days before the time for commencement of the parade when the City Manager finds
that adequate provision can be made to handle such parade within the period
between the filing of application and time for commencement of the parade.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization, and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The approximate number of persons who, and vehicles which, will
constitute such parade and description of the vehicles;
      (6)   The hours when such parade will start and terminate;
      (7)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets and sidewalks proposed to be traversed;
      (8)   The location by streets of any assembly area and the proposed route
for such parade;
      (9)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas;
      (10)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of such
parade;
      (11)   If the parade is designed to be held by and on behalf of, or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file
with the city manager a communication in writing from the person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his
behalf;
      (12)   Any additional information which the City Manager shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should be
issued.
('69 Code, § 15-4) (Ord. passed 1-6-66; Am. Ord. 21-92, passed 11-5-92)
§ 97.05 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The City Manager shall issue a permit as provided hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   (A)   Adequate provision can be made for the safe and orderly movement of
the parade and of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   Adequate provision can be made for police protection which will not
require the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to
police properly the line of movement and the area contiguous thereto as to
prevent normal police protection to the city.
   (C)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property owners in
the area to enjoy peaceful occupancy and use of their property.
   (D)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference with
normal vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area and will not prevent normal
police or fire protection to the public and will not be likely to cause injury
to persons or property or provoke disorderly conduct or create a public
disturbance.
('69 Code, § 15-5) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.06 ACTION ON PERMIT BY CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
48 hours after the filing thereof. If the City Manager disapproves the
application, he shall notify the applicant stating the reason for his denial of
the permit.
('69 Code, § 15-6) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; DISPERSAL OF PARADE.
   Upon the violation of any of the terms of the permit by any person
participating in the parade, any police officer of the city is authorized to
then revoke the permit and direct those participating in the parade to
disperse.
('69 Code, § 15-7) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.08 AUTHORIZED HOURS.
   No person may conduct or otherwise participate in any parade except between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. to
9:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
('69 Code, § 15-8) (Ord. passed 1-6-66)
§ 97.09 PARADE ROUTE.
   The proposed route for the parade shall be submitted with the parade permit
application. The Chief of Police or his delegate shall review the proposed
route with respect to traffic needs and safety precautions and shall approve or
deny the proposed route based on these criteria.
§ 97.10 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No person participating in a parade shall, under any circumstances,
carry any firearm or other weapon or device which is calculated to or may
inspire terror.
   (B)   No person participating in a parade shall be accompanied by any dog or
other animal unless the permit which has been issued for such parade
specifically provides therefor.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 15-10) (Ord., passed 1-6-66; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.11 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly or with any person or vehicle participating
or used in a parade.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 15-11) (Ord., passed 1-6-66; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 98: CULTURAL AND RECREATION SERVICES
Section
   
98.01   Adoption by reference
   
98.02   Required safety equipment at Asheboro Skate Park
   
98.03   Failure to vacate rented recreation facilities
   
98.04   Prohibition of activities that damage city property
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Asheboro Cultural and Recreation Services Policy Manual
(initially known as the Parks and Recreation Department Policy Manual and
subsequently known for a limited period of time as the City of Asheboro
Cultural and Recreation Services Division Policy Manual), which was originally
approved by the City Council on March 5, 1998, and as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set forth at length
herein.
(Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 5-10-01; Am. Ord. 05 ORD 1-10, passed 1-7-10; Am. Ord.
01 ORD 3-14, passed 3-6-14)
§ 98.02 REQUIRED SAFETY EQUIPMENT AT ASHEBORO SKATE PARK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, operate, or utilize in
any manner a skateboard or inline skates, specifically including sneakers or
other types of shoes with one or more wheels embedded in each shoe’s sole, on
the premises of the Asheboro Skate Park unless such a person is wearing a
helmet, elbow pads, and kneepads in strict compliance with the instructions
provided by the manufacturer of the safety equipment.
   (B)   The City Manager, in consultation with the city police department and
the Recreation Services Department, shall cause signage to be erected on the
premises of the Asheboro Skate Park in order to provide notice of the safety
equipment requirements imposed by this section.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 52 ORD 11-06, passed 11-9- 06; Am. Ord. 15 ORD 4-07, passed 4-5-07; Am.
Ord. 05 ORD 1-10, passed 1-7-10; Am. Ord. 01 ORD 3- 14, passed 3-6-14; Am. Ord.
36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.03 FAILURE TO VACATE RENTED RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to occupy or otherwise utilize in any
manner a facility managed by either the City of Asheboro Cultural Services
Department or the City of Asheboro Recreation Services Department, specifically
including by way of illustration and not limitation shelters in city parks and
the Rotary Pavilion at Bicentennial Park, when signage displayed at such a
facility indicates that the facility is rented and documentation from either
the Cultural Services Department or the Recreation Services Department
authorizing the use of the facility by another individual, group, or entity is
displayed to the person(s) attempting to unlawfully occupy or utilize the
facility.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15 ORD 6-12, passed 6-7-12; Am. Ord. 01 ORD 3-14, passed 3-6- 14; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 PROHIBITION OF ACTIVITIES THAT DAMAGE CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to engage in any action on the premises of a park or
facility administered by the city’s Cultural Services Department or Recreation
Services Department that has not been explicitly approved by either of these
departments as sanctioned cultural or recreational programming and has the
effect of damaging the city’s real or personal property. By way of illustration
and not limitation, an activity that would fall within the scope of this
prohibition is the use of a shovel or spade to disturb the ground in response
to an alert signal from a metal detector. It is not the intent of this section,
and the text of this section shall not be interpreted in any manner, that
reduces or impairs the ability of the city to pursue civil actions to recover
damages and/or seek the prosecution of individuals for committing criminal
offenses such as trespass, injury to personal property, and injury to real
property.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 01 ORD 3-14, passed 3-6-14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 99: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Duty of property owners to maintain sidewalks
   
99.02   Sidewalks to be kept clean; removal of snow
   
99.03   Interference with barricades; driving on barricaded street
   
99.04   Sledding on city streets
   
99.05   Drainage policy
Obstructions
   
99.10   Objects over or upon sidewalk
   
99.11   Structures over sidewalks
   
99.12   Awnings
   
99.13   Building materials on streets and sidewalks
   
99.14   Scaffolding and passageways during building operations
   
99.15   Placing material in street or alley or upon sidewalk
   
99.16   Allowing merchandise to remain on sidewalk or street after 7:00 p.m.
   
99.17   Obstructions in alleyways which interfere with fire-fighting equipment
   
99.18   Construction debris, soil or mud
Excavations
   
99.25   Permit required
   
99.26   Bond required
   
99.27   Permit required for removal of sand, dirt or stone
   
99.28   Return of street to good condition after opening
   
99.29   Planks and ropes at excavation sites
   
99.30   Lights at excavation sites
Improvements and Assessments
   
99.40   Steps, walkways and driveways
   
99.41   Addition of curb and gutter to existing city streets
Private Driveways
   
99.50   Permit required
   
99.51   Application for permit; issuance
   
99.52   Construction requirements; denial of permit
   
99.53   When reconstruction of sidewalk required; specifications
 
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   If any sidewalk or portion of a sidewalk is found by the City Manager
not to be in good repair, or not clean and free of debris, trash or other
obstacles or impediments, he may notify promptly the owner of the property
abutting such sidewalk or portion of sidewalk of his findings and direct such
owner to take action as specified in such notice to rectify the condition
within ten days following service of such notice. Failure of such property
owner to comply with such notice within ten days following service thereof
shall constitute an offense against this section; provided, that within three
days of service of such notice, the property owner may request, in writing,
that the City Manager hold a public hearing on the matter, in which case the
City Manager shall hold such public hearing not less than two or more than ten
days following receipt of such request by the City Manager, and upon reasonable
notice to the property owner of the time and place for such public hearing. The
decision of the City Manager following such hearing may be appealed to the City
Council within three days, and if not so appealed the decision of the City
Manager shall be final.
   (B)   Notices by the City Manager to property owners under the provisions of
this section shall be in writing and may be served in any manner authorized by
law, for service of process in an action in rem or in personam.
   (C)   Conditions not corrected by property owners pursuant to the provisions
of this section may be corrected by the city, in which event the costs incurred
by the city shall constitute a lien upon the property abutting such sidewalk or
portion of sidewalk equal to the lien for ad valorem taxes and may thereafter
be collected either by suit in the name of the city or by foreclosure of the
lien in the same manner and subject to the same rules, regulations, costs and
penalties as provided by law for the foreclosure of a lien on real estate for
ad valorem taxes.
('69 Code, § 19-1) (Am. Ord. 4-91, passed 4-4-91)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.02 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAN; REMOVAL OF SNOW.
   The tenant or occupant, or if there be no tenant, the owner, agent or
custodian of any building or lot of land bordering on any street in the city,
where there is a sidewalk abutting, shall keep such sidewalk in front of and
adjoining such property clean. After any fall of snow, such tenant, occupant,
owner, agent or custodian shall, within 24 hours after the snow shall have
ceased to fall, remove or cause such snow to be removed from the sidewalks of
their respective premises.
('69 Code, § 19-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.03 INTERFERENCE WITH BARRICADES; DRIVING ON BARRICADED STREET.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to tear down any poles, plank or other material
erected as a blockade or barricade to close streets under construction, or
erected for other purposes by authority of the City Council or City Manager.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an automobile, truck or
other vehicle upon any street that has been blockaded or barricaded by
authority of the City Council or City Manager, except as may be authorized by
this Code.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-3) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 SLEDDING ON CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Petition required. In order for a street to be designated as a
sledding area, residents must petition the Parks and Recreation Department. The
petition must be signed by a minimum of 75% of the residents of the street
considered.
   (B)   Map required. A map must be included with the petition indicating the
following:
      (1)   Location of dwellings;
      (2)   Name of residents;
      (3)   Area to be affected;
      (4)   Number of barricades needed and locations desired; and,
      (5)   All intersecting streets in the affected area.
   (C)   Map verification and approval or disapproval. Upon receipt of the
petition and map, the Parks and Recreation Department will be responsible for
map verification and approval or disapproval of the request, complete with
explanation of reasons for disapproval.
   (D)   Erection of barricades. Upon approval, the Parks and Recreation
Department will be responsible for delivery and erection of barricades in the
designated locations.
   (E)   Curfew on sledding. No sledding should be permitted after 12:00 p.m.
   (F)   Police to be informed. The Police Department will be informed of
sledding areas. Periodic checks will be made as part of regular rounds to
assist in crowd control.
   (G)   Residents' responsibilities. Residents living on a street for which a
petition has been received and approved by the parks and recreation department
shall have the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Assistance in when conditions merit barricading streets.
      (2)   Assistance in crowd control and reporting problems to the Police
Department.
      (3)   Care of barricades and their locations remaining stable.
      (4)   Informing the parks and recreation department when barricades are
no longer needed.
   (H)   Removal of street from sledding list. In order to have a street
removed from the designated sledding list, a petition must be submitted by the
residents of the area and signed by more than 25% of the residents.
('69 Code, § 19-3.1) (Ord. passed 8-5-82)
§ 99.05 DRAINAGE POLICY.
   (A)   General responsibilities. The city will be responsible for providing
necessary drainage facilities on city-maintained streets within dedicated
rights-of-way to accommodate existing storm flow or increased flow from
development, and for maintaining drainage facilities on all city-maintained
streets within dedicated rights-of-way. Inasmuch as civil law provides that
lower lands are subservient to upper lands for natural drainage flowing to it,
the city cannot be responsible for problems on private property that result
from acceleration of flow from development by the city or others that becomes
the natural burden of lower lands, or other drainage problems on private
property.
   (B)   Specific policies. The city will provide and pay for all work that is
necessary in order to provide adequate drainage of city streets. The city will
not enter upon private property to pipe drainage ditches, maintain drainage
ditches, or to correct drainage problems other than what is necessary to
provide adequate drainage for city streets. The city will not become involved
in disputes between adjoining property owners involving drainage problems.
Improvements to drainage facilities along city streets requested by a property
owner that are not necessary for providing adequate street drainage shall be at
the expense of the property owner. Such improvements would consist of piping
ditches along city streets, providing rip-rap slope protection, providing
concrete ditch channels, or increasing the size of an existing culvert for the
benefit of the property owner. Improvements or alterations to drainage
facilities on city streets must be approved by the city engineer.
('69 Code, § 19-3.2) (Ord., passed 8-5-82; Am. Ord. 30-05, passed 6-9-05)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 99.10 OBJECTS OVER OR UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hang, put, erect, project,
suspend or in any manner place or maintain or permit to remain any sign, or
thing of like nature, over, on or upon any sidewalk of the city or the curbing
thereof, whether of wood, cloth, or of whatever material made or constructed,
alongside, or however placed, which shall be less than seven feet above such
sidewalk or which shall, in any manner whatsoever, impede, delay, incommode,
endanger or inconvenience pedestrians in the free and uninterrupted use of such
sidewalk or any part thereof, or in passing to and from the sidewalk to the
street; provided, that this shall not be construed to apply to awnings.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-4) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.11 STRUCTURES OVER SIDEWALKS.
   Plans for the construction or erection of a structure or fixture, exclusive
of a drop awning, over any sidewalk area shall be submitted to the Building
Inspector and his approval thereof obtained before the work of construction or
erection is begun. No such plan shall be approved unless the following minimum
requirements are met:
   (A)   All projections on the street side of a structure shall be at least 18
inches from the traffic face of the curb.
   (B)   The minimum clearance from the finished grade of the sidewalk to any
part of an overhead structure shall be ten feet, excluding any horizontal
supports, which shall not be less than eight feet, six inches from the finished
grade of the sidewalk.
   (C)   Signs placed under the deck of all structures shall have a minimum
clearance of nine feet from the finished grade of the sidewalk.
   (D)   Column spacing shall vary from 18 feet to 25 feet to conform to
spacing of parking spaces, water meters and fire hydrants.
   (E)   Roof drainage shall be provided with all downspouts emptying through
the curb to existing gutters.
   (F)   The top of all foundations shall be at least six inches below the
finished grade of the sidewalk.
   (G)   Repairs to sidewalk or necessary new sidewalk shall be constructed at
cost to abutting property owners.
   (H)   Abutting property owners shall be responsible for the maintenance of
the structure and keep the roof or deck clear from all rubbish and trash.
   (I)   All structure materials, including roof and deck, shall be
noncombustible. A flat roof or deck shall be designed by a licensed architect
or engineer to support a live load of at least 40 pounds per square foot.
('69 Code, § 19-17) (Ord. passed 7-8-65; Am. Ord., passed 3-4-66)
§ 99.12 AWNINGS.
   All awnings suspended over any sidewalk or walkway shall be not less than
seven feet in height from sidewalk or walkway at the lowest point.
('69 Code, § 19-18)
§ 99.13 BUILDING MATERIALS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place building materials on any
of the streets or sidewalks of the city in such a way or manner that such
streets or sidewalks are obstructed or blocked thereby.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-5) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.14 SCAFFOLDING AND PASSAGEWAYS DURING BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to build scaffolding on any of the
streets or sidewalks of the city in such a way or manner that such streets or
sidewalks are obstructed or blocked thereby. Before building or remodeling at
any place which is in close proximity to the sidewalk an overhead covered
passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the sidewalk unobstructed and
provide safe and easy passage.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-6) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.15 PLACING MATERIAL IN STREET OR ALLEY OR UPON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any street or alley or
upon any sidewalk any boxes, casks, barrels, crates or other like obstruction.
Each day such obstruction is permitted to remain in any street or alley or upon
any sidewalk after the person responsible therefor has been notified to remove
such obstruction shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-7) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.16 ALLOWING MERCHANDISE TO REMAIN ON SIDEWALK OR STREET AFTER 7:00 P.M.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any goods, wares,
merchandise or any article for sale to remain on the sidewalks in such manner
as to obstruct the free passage of the sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any goods, wares, merchandise or other articles of trade to
remain on the streets of the city after 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-8) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.17 OBSTRUCTIONS IN ALLEYWAYS WHICH INTERFERE WITH FIRE-FIGHTING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to obstruct in any manner whatsoever any
alleyway, whether dedicated to public use or not, used by the public as a means
of egress or ingress from or to any property located within the fire limits of
the city, to such an extent that such obstruction would prevent, impede or
delay the moving of fire trucks or other fire-fighting equipment to or from
such property.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not prevent the
use of such alleyways for temporary parking if such temporary parking is for
the purpose of loading or unloading goods, wares, merchandise or other articles
in the ordinary course of business and trade.
   (C)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not prevent the
erection of permanent structures or buildings upon such alleyways by the owners
thereof if such owners otherwise have the right to erect such structures or
buildings.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-9) (Ord., passed 3-10-55; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-
21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.18 CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, SOIL OR MUD.
   (A)   If a situation arises where there is an excessive amount of soil, mud
or debris from a construction site accumulating on a street within the city
limits, and/or the situation becomes hazardous or potentially hazardous to
public safety and cannot be corrected by routine street flushing, the
responsible builder or contractor will be notified and given a reasonable
amount of time within 24 hours to clean the street.
   (B)   If the problem has not been corrected to the satisfaction of the city
after the allotted amount of time has passed, or if requested by the
responsible party, the city will clean the street and invoice the responsible
party for the work required. The fee charged by the city to clean the street
will be $250 minimum for the first hour and $100 for each hour thereafter.
(Ord, 04-96, passed 4-4-96)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 99.25 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole, ditch or
excavation of any kind whatsoever on any street in the city without having
first secured a permit.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-10) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.26 BOND REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring a permit as required in §
99.25 may be required, as a prerequisite thereto and before such permit is
issued, to file with the city a bond, in such sum as shall be determined by the
City Manager, conditioned upon the restoration of the street, public alley or
sidewalk, in accordance with §
99.28.
('69 Code, § 19-11)
§ 99.27 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR REMOVAL OF SAND, DIRT OR STONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, remove any sand, dirt or stone
from any street, road or sidewalk in the city without having first secured a
permit therefor.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-12) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.28 RETURN OF STREET TO GOOD CONDITION AFTER OPENING.
   It shall be the duty of every person who shall open or dig a ditch, trench
or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of the city, to put such
street, public alley or sidewalk in as good condition in all respects as it was
before the ditch, trench or hole in question was opened or dug. Every day of
failure, neglect or refusal to put such street, alley or sidewalk in as good
condition as it was before the ditch, trench or hole in question was opened or
dug shall constitute a separate offense.
('69 Code, § 19-13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.29 PLANKS AND ROPES AT EXCAVATION SITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation for any
purpose whatsoever in a street or sidewalk of the city to fail to cover such
excavation securely with plank or to place ropes around the excavation three
feet from the ground.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-14) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.30 LIGHTS AT EXCAVATION SITES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation for any
purpose whatsoever in any street or sidewalk of the city to fail to place a
sufficient number of orange lights around such excavation before dark and to
keep such lights burning all night during every night such excavation shall be
open.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 19-15) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
99.99
IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS
§ 99.40 STEPS, WALKWAYS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   The policy of the city concerning street construction and repairs as
affecting abutting steps, walks and driveways shall be as prescribed in this
section.
   (A)   As to existing steps, walks and driveways. Where an abutting property
owner has concrete or masonry steps or a walk or driveway prior to the
beginning of any street work, such steps, walk or driveway shall be
reconstructed during course of work to a status equivalent to that existing
prior to the beginning of such street work, and the cost thereof shall be
charged to the project.
   (B)   Installation of concrete steps for abutting property owners. Where an
abutting property owner has no steps prior to the beginning of street work, the
Engineering Department is authorized to take up the matter of steps with the
property owner at the same time that it goes into the matter of driveway
entrances; stating to the property owner in this situation that he can get
concrete steps at the time the street work is done by agreeing to pay for both
labor and materials.
   (C)   Property owner's option as to concrete or wooden steps. Where the
property owner has wooden steps but wants concrete steps, division (B) of this
section shall apply. If he wants to retain his wooden steps, they shall be
reerected in as nearly their shape and condition as possible on the same basis
as division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Driveways. Driveways in use or clearly about to be used shall be
stoned back to the point in which the driveway was affected by the street work.
('69 Code, § 19-16) (Ord. passed 5-10-51)
§ 99.41 ADDITION OF CURB AND GUTTER TO EXISTING CITY STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council will not consider improving any street unless and
until a petition requesting such improvements is received and signed by at
least 51% of the adjacent land owners representing at least 51% of the linear
feet of frontage of land abutting the proposed street to be improved.
   (B)   The City Council shall not accept a petition or consider improving any
street which does not meet the minimum width requirement of 28 feet between
curbs.
   (C)   In consideration of improving a city street, all abutting property
owners must agree to grant and convey to the city a permanent 50 foot wide
right-of-way (25 feet each side of the street center line), along with a
temporary construction easement over other adjacent land as may be required to
improve the street.
   (D)   All adjacent property owners must agree to release and discharge the
city from any and all claims that result from or are incident to the grading
and construction or appropriation and use of property.
   (E)   The petitioners must agree that each owner of property abutting the
improved street will be assessed $20 per linear foot of street frontage based
on the deed for said property. The assessed fee will be billed with property
taxes and may be paid over a period of five years with interest charged at the
current rate allowed by law.
   (F)   This policy shall apply only to existing public streets dedicated and
accepted for public use which are within the corporate limits.
('69 Code, § 19-16.1) (Ord. passed 4-14-83)
PRIVATE DRIVEWAYS
§ 99.50 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across any
public sidewalk, walkway or parkway or into any street, or to cut any curb for
such purpose, without first having obtained a permit therefor as required by
this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 19-19) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-50)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 99.51 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   Application for a driveway permit shall be made to the city and shall state,
among other things, the location, grade and dimensions of the proposed driveway
and the purpose for which it is desired. If the proposed driveway complies with
the provisionsof this subchapter, the city shall issue a permit therefor.
('69 Code, § 19-20) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-50)
§ 99.52 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS; DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No permit for a driveway shall be issued under this subchapter except
in compliance with the latest revision of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation's policy of street and driveway access to North Carolina
highways.
   (B)   No driveway apron shall extend out into the street further than the
face of the curb and under no circumstances shall such driveway apron extend
into the gutter area.
§ 99.53 WHEN RECONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   Every person who intends or plans to use any portion of a sidewalk as a
private driveway shall, if the Director of Public Works certifies that the
sidewalk area is inadequate for vehicular traffic, reconstruct such sidewalk in
such a manner that the sidewalk is capable of carrying vehicular traffic
without creating pedestrian hazards and in accordance with the specifications
of the Director of Public Works with respect to slope drainage, reinforcement,
finish and other construction features.
('69 Code, § 19-22) (Ord. 192, passed 6-8-50)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 100: YARD SALES
Section
   
100.01   Title
   
100.02   Purpose
   
100.03   Definition
   
100.04   General retail sales
   
100.05   Number and time limitations
   
100.06   Signs
   
100.07   Exceptions to chapter
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Asheboro Yard
Sale Ordinance."
('69 Code, § 24.1-1) (Ord. passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89)
§ 100.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations on yard sale
activities so that such activities will be conducted in a manner that is not
detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of citizens of the city.
('69 Code, § 24.1-2) (Ord. passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89)
§ 100.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations and
corporations.
   YARD SALE. A sale from a residence or residential property of personal
property which has been owned or used previously by a person residing on the
premises where the sale is conducted. The term YARD SALE shall include all
sales entitled  "garage sale," "lawn sale," "attic sale," or "rummage sale."
('69 Code, § 24.1-3) (Ord. passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89)
§ 100.04 GENERAL RETAIL SALES.
   (A)   The conduct of general retail sales or commercial activities in a
residential district as designated in the zoning ordinance is, except as is
otherwise expressly authorized in this chapter, prohibited.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 24.1-4) (Ord., passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.05 NUMBER AND TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A yard sale shall not be conducted on any premises more than twice in
a 12-month period.
   (B)   Each of the two yard sales may be for two consecutive weekends or 72
hours each whichever is the lesser and only during daylight hours.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord., passed 4-6-89; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.06 SIGNS.
   (A)   Except as provided below, signs used in conjunction with a yard sale
shall be displayed only on the premises upon which the yard sale is conducted.
   (B)   Two off-site directional signs may be permitted provided that the
premises upon which the yard sale is conducted is not located on a major
thoroughfare, and written permission to erect said signs is received from the
property owners on whose property such signs are to be placed.
   (C)   Signs may be displayed only during the hours the sale is actively
being conducted and must be removed at the close of the yard sale activities,
or by the end of daylight, whichever first occurs each day.
   (D)   No signs may be placed in the public right-of-way.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 24.1-7) (Ord., passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials.
   (C)   Any person conducting an incidental sale of one or two separate items
when such sale is not part of general sale of a number of items of personal
property.
('69 Code, § 24.1-8) (Ord. passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $50.
(‘69 Code, § 24.1-9) (Ord., passed 9-7-78; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-89; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   PAWNBROKERS
         
111.   RESERVED
         
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
         
113.   DEALERS IN SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL
         
114.   TAXICABS
         
115.   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
         
116.   RESERVED
         
117.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
         
118.   LOCAL ABC LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Pawnbroker authority
   
110.04   Requirements for licensure
   
110.05   Issuance of license
   
110.06   Revocation of pawnbroker’s license
   
110.07   Record-keeping requirements for pawnbrokers
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWN or PAWN TRANSACTION. A written bailment of personal property as
security for a debt, redeemable on certain terms within 180 days, unless
renewed, and with an implied power of sale on default.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in the business of lending money on the
security of pledged goods and who may also purchase merchandise for resale from
dealers and traders.
   PAWNSHOP. The location at which, or premises in which, a pawnbroker
regularly conducts business.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, joint venture, association, or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   PLEDGED GOODS. Tangible personal property which is deposited with, or
otherwise actually delivered into, the possession of a pawnbroker in the course
of his business in connection with a pawn transaction.
   PURCHASE. An item purchased from an individual for the purpose of resale
whereby the seller no longer has a vested interest in the item.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to establish or conduct
a business of pawnbroker within the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro
unless such person, firm, or corporation has procured a license to conduct
business in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and all applicable
provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.03 PAWNBROKER AUTHORITY.
   A pawnbroker licensee is authorized to: (i) make loans on pledges of
tangible personal property, (ii) deal in bullion stocks, (iii) purchase
merchandise for resale from dealers, traders, and wholesale suppliers, and (iv)
use its capital and funds in any lawful manner within the general scope and
purpose of its creation. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, no
pawnbroker has the authority enumerated in this section unless he has fully
complied with the laws regulating the particular transactions involved.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSURE.
   (A)   To be eligible for a pawnbroker’s license issued by the city, an
applicant must:
      (1)   Be of good moral character; and
      (2)   Not have been convicted of a felony within the last 10 years.
   (B)   Every person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business
of pawnbroker within the corporate limits of the City of Asheboro shall submit
a petition to the city clerk for a license to conduct such business. In
addition to a nonrefundable processing fee of $20, such petitions shall provide
the following information and documentation in a form approved by the city
manager:
      (1)   The name and address of the person, and, in case of a firm or
corporation, the names and addresses of the persons composing such firm or of
the officers, directors, and stockholders of such corporation, excluding
shareholders of publicly traded companies;
      (2)   The name of the business and the street and mailing address where
the business is to be operated;
      (3)   A statement indicating the amount of net assets or capital proposed
to be used by the petitioner in operation of the business; this statement shall
be accompanied by an unaudited statement from an accountant or certified public
accountant verifying the information contained in the accompanying statement;
      (4)   An affidavit by the petitioner that he has not been convicted of a
felony; and
      (5)   A certificate from the chief of police, or sheriff of the county,
or the State Bureau of Investigation that the petitioner has not been convicted
of a felony.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the processing fee and the information/documentation
specified in division (B) of this section, the city clerk shall transmit a copy
of the application to (i) the police department for an investigative report and
(ii) the community development division for a report on whether the proposed
pawnbroker business is compliant with all of the applicable zoning, building
code, and fire prevention code regulations. These units of the city government
shall report the results of their reviews of the application to the city clerk
within a reasonable period of time not to exceed 30 days.
   (D)   An application in proper form shall be placed on the printed agenda of
the first regular Council meeting after completion of the reports referenced
above in division (C) and for which the normal agenda deadline can be met.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall apply to pawnbroker licenses
pending on July 1, 2015, and to applications for such licenses filed after that
date.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Before issuing a license, the Council shall be satisfied that the
applicant is suitable to hold a pawnbroker license and that the location is a
suitable place to hold the proposed license. To be a suitable place, the
establishment, at a minimum, must comply with the rules and regulations set out
in Chapter 66, Article 45, Part 1 of the North Carolina General Statutes. Other
factors the Council may consider in determining whether the applicant and the
business location are suitable shall include all of the following:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building, and fire prevention codes;
      (3)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony within a
ten-year period preceding the filing of the application;
      (4)   Parking facilities and traffic control infrastructure in the
neighborhood;
      (5)   The recommendations of the Asheboro Police Department; and
      (6)   Any other evidence that would tend to show whether the operation of
the business at the proposed location would be detrimental to the neighborhood
and whether the applicant would comply with the provisions of this chapter and
the above-cited state law provisions.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application by the Council and the receipt of the
bond specified in division (C) of this section, the city clerk shall issue a
pawnbroker license to the applicant.
   (C)   In accordance with Section 66-399 of the North Carolina General
Statutes, every person, firm, or corporation licensed as a pawnbroker must, at
the time of receiving the license, file with the city clerk a bond payable to
the City of Asheboro in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000), which is to
be executed by the licensee and by two responsible sureties or a surety company
licensed to do such business in this state, which shall be for the faithful
performance of the requirements and obligations pertaining to the licensed
business. The city may sue for forfeiture of the bond upon a breach thereof.
Any person who obtains a judgment against a pawnbroker and upon which judgment
execution is returned unsatisfied may maintain an action in his or her own name
upon the bond to satisfy the judgment.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall apply to pawnbroker licenses
pending on July 1, 2015, and to applications for such licenses filed after that
date.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.06 REVOCATION OF PAWNBROKER’S LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to §
110.05 of this chapter may be revoked by action of the Council for substantial
abuse of this chapter or for substantial abuse of Chapter 66, Article 45, Part
1 of the North Carolina General Statutes. Before the Council revokes a license
pursuant to this chapter, and before the Council considers an application for a
license pursuant to this chapter, a written notice shall be sent to the
licensee or applicant impacted by the proposed action. This notice shall be
sent by means of certified mail, return receipt requested, to the addressed
listed on the application. The notice shall advise the affected party of a
right to appear before the Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated
place and time at least ten days following the date of the notice for the
purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation or application
and for the purpose of cross examining any person providing evidence against
the respondent. A revocation hearing may be initiated by the chief of police or
by the Council.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 110.07 RECORD-KEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep consecutively numbered records of each and
every pawn transaction, which shall correspond in all essential particulars to
a detachable pawn ticket or copy thereof attached to the record.
   (B)   The pawnbroker shall, at the time of making the pawn or purchase
transaction, enter upon the pawn ticket a record of the following information
which shall be typed or written in ink and in the English language:
      (1)   A clear and accurate description of the property, including model
and serial number if indicated on the property;
      (2)   The name, residence address, phone number, and date of birth of the
pledgor;
      (3)   The date of the pawn transaction;
      (4)   The type of identification and the identification number accepted
from pledgor;
      (5)   A description of the pledgor that includes the approximate height
and weight along with the pledgor’s gender and race;
      (6)   The amount of money advanced;
      (7)   The date due and the amount due;
      (8)   All monthly pawn charges, including interest, annual percentage
rate on interest, and total recovery fee; and
      (9)   The agreed upon “stated value” between pledgor and pawnbroker in
case of loss or destruction of pledged item; unless otherwise noted, “stated
value” is the same as the loan value.
   (C)   The following shall be printed on all pawn tickets:
      (1)   The statement that “ANY PERSONAL PROPERTY PLEDGED TO A PAWNBROKER
WITHIN THIS STATE IS SUBJECT TO SALE OR DISPOSAL WHEN THERE HAS BEEN NO PAYMENT
MADE ON THE ACCOUNT FOR A PERIOD OF 60 DAYS PAST MATURITY DATE OF THE ORIGINAL
CONTRACT. NO FURTHER NOTICE IS NECESSARY.”;
      (2)   The statement that “THE PLEDGOR OF THIS ITEM ATTESTS THAT IT IS NOT
STOLEN, HAS NO LIENS OR ENCUMBRANCES, AND IS THE PLEDGOR’S TO SELL OR PAWN.”;
      (3)   The statement that “THE ITEM PAWNED IS REDEEMABLE ONLY BY THE
BEARER OF THIS TICKET OR BY IDENTIFICATION OF THE PERSON MAKING THE PAWN.”; and
      (4)   A blank line for the pledgor’s signature and the pawnbroker’s
signature or initials.
   (D)   The pledgor shall sign the pawn ticket and shall receive an exact copy
of the pawn ticket which shall be signed or initialed by the pawnbroker or any
employee of the pawnbroker. These records shall be available for inspection and
pickup each regular workday by the Asheboro Police Department. These records
may be electronically reported to the city police department by transmission
over the Internet or by facsimile transmission in a manner authorized by the
chief of police. These records shall be a correct copy of the entries made of
the pawn or purchase transaction and shall be carefully preserved without
alteration, and shall be available during regular business hours.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or any applicable
provision of state law, any person presenting a pawn ticket to a pawnbroker is
presumed to be entitled to redeem the pledged goods described on the ticket.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
CHAPTER 111: RESERVED
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Transient vendors
§ 112.01 TRANSIENT VENDORS.
   No peddler, hawker or transient vendor of merchandise, commodities or
services shall enter upon any private residential premises or business premises
within the city if the property in question is posted with a notice reading "No
Solicitation" or the like.
('69 Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 7-5-45; Am. Ord., passed 4-6-50)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113: DEALERS IN SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL
Section
   
113.01   Purpose; findings
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Classifications
   
113.04   License required
   
113.05   Issuance and posting of license
   
113.06   Reserved
   
113.07   Inspection
   
113.08   Notices
   
113.09   Notice of violation; suspension of license
   
113.10   Revocation of license
   
113.11   Appeal of denial, suspension, or revocation of license
   
113.12   Transfer of license
   
113.13   Expiration of license
   
113.14   Prohibition regarding minors
   
113.15   Adult live entertainment businesses
   
113.16   Adult mini-motion-picture theaters
   
113.17   Clothing modeling studios
   
113.18   Hours of operation
   
113.19   Criminal penalty
   
113.20   Civil injunction
§ 113.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations
to prevent the deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials or
other expressive activities, including sexually oriented materials or
activities. Similarly, it is not the intent or effect of this chapter to
restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by
the First Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to in any way condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material or material harmful to minors.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A retail establishment that has:
      (1)   As one or more of its principal business purposes, the sale or
rental of, the following items:
         (a)   Publications which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities, as defined in this section; and/or
         (b)   Sexually oriented devices, as defined in this section.
      (2)   As used in this definition, publications include, by way of
illustration, books, magazines, other periodicals, movies, videotapes, and
other products offered in photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium.
      (3)   Any of the following shall be indicia that an establishment has as
one of its principal business purposes the sale or rental of: (i) publications
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section; and/or (ii) sexually oriented devices, as
defined in this section. Such indicia shall be considered along with all other
factors and available information.
         (a)   The business advertises the sale or rental of adult publications
and/or sexually oriented devices.
         (b)   Access by persons under 18 years of age to the business
establishment or portions of the business establishment is restricted.
         (c)   Signs or notices are posted outside and/or inside the business
establishment indicating that the material offered for sale or rental might be
offensive.
         (d)   The building or portion of the building containing the business
establishment does not have windows or has windows that are screened or
otherwise obstructed or are situated in a manner that restricts visual access
from outside the building to materials displayed within for sale or rental.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a general circulation video/DVD
store that does not offer for sale any sexually oriented devices shall not
constitute an ADULT BOOKSTORE even though it offers for sale and/or rental
videotapes which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities, as defined in this section, so long as:
         (a)   Such described videotapes/DVDs are stocked and displayed in a
room separate from the area of the business establishment where general
circulation videotapes are stocked and displayed;
         (b)   Access by persons under 18 years of age to the room where such
described videotapes/DVDs are stocked and displayed is restricted;
         (c)   The square footage of the separate room where such described
videotapes/DVDs are stocked and displayed is no more than 10% of the square
footage of the area where general circulation videotapes/DVDs are stocked and
displayed; and
         (d)   The general circulation videotape/DVD portion of the business
establishment offers a quantity and selection of new release general
circulation videotapes/DVDs that are typical of a general circulation video/DVD
store and offers a quantity and selection of other general circulation
videotapes/DVDs that are organized and displayed in a manner that is typical of
a general circulation video/DVD store.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINER. An employee who engages in or performs adult live
entertainment.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business which has
as one of its principal business purposes the presentation of adult live
entertainment for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION-PICTURE BOOTH. Any booth or partitioned area of less than
150 square feet in an adult mini-motion-picture theater that is designed to
hold patrons for the presentation and viewing of still or motion pictures
(slides, film, videotape, laser disc, CD-ROM or other imaging media) that are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this section.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION-PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment with one or
more adult mini-motion-picture booths where:
      (1)   One of the principal business purposes is the presentation and
viewing of still or motion pictures in the viewing booths that are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this section; or
      (2)   A substantial or significant portion of the stock of still or
motion pictures available for viewing or that are actually viewed in the
viewing booths are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities, as defined in this section.
      (3)   Any of the following shall be indicia, which shall be considered
with all other factors and available information, that the business
establishment has as one of its principal business purposes the presentation
and viewing in viewing booths still or motion pictures which are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in
this section:
         (a)   Restricted access to the business establishment or portions of
the business establishment where viewing booths are located to persons less
than 18 years of age;
         (b)   Posted signs or notices outside and/or inside the business
establishment indicating that the material offered for presentation and viewing
in the viewing booths might be offensive.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment that regularly
presents motion pictures which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section, in an
area, whether enclosed or not, of 150 square feet or greater for observation by
patrons therein.
   APPLICANT. The owner of a sexually oriented business.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Asheboro Police Department, or his or her
designee.
   CITY MANAGER. The Asheboro City Manager, or his or her designee (who shall
not be an employee of the Asheboro Police Department).
   CLOTHING MODELING STUDIO. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, a person agrees or offers to privately model clothing, including, but
not limited to, lingerie, for an individual patron.
   CONVICTED. An adjudication of guilt and entry of judgment following a trial
or a plea of guilty or no contest in a criminal case arising under local,
state, or federal law.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who performs any service or entertainment upon the
premises of a sexually oriented business, whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise and
regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage, or other
compensation by the operator of the business. The term EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for any of the following:
      (1)   The repair or maintenance of the premises;
      (2)   The delivery of goods to the premises: or
      (3)   The delivery of services, such as legal, accounting, insurance, or
other similar services provided to businesses generally.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is both present on and in charge of any sexually
oriented business premises.
   OWNER. The legal owner of a sexually oriented business and includes the
following:
      (1)   The owner of a sole proprietorship;
      (2)   Each member of a firm, association, or general partnership;
      (3)   Each general partner in a limited partnership;
      (4)   Each manager in a limited liability company; or
      (5)   Each officer, director, and owner of 50% or more of the stock of a
corporation.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, corporation, association, or other legal entity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any adult bookstore, adult live entertainment
business, adult mini-motion-picture theater, adult motion-picture theater, or
clothing modeling studio, as defined in this section.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CRIME. Any criminal offense under local, state, or federal
law involving or related to rape, sex offense, sexual abuse of minors, crime
against nature, incest, prostitution, indecent exposure, or this chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or other device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities, but does not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region; or
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola: or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including human
masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts; or
      (4)   Excretory functions, as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   STRADDLE. The straddling of the legs of one person over any part of the body
of any other person, regardless of whether there is a touch or touching.
   TOUCH. To touch with a portion of the human body or with any object.
('69 Code, § 11-27) (Ord., passed 12-6-79; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstores.
   (B)   Adult live entertainment businesses.
   (C)   Adult mini-motion-picture theaters.
   (D)   Adult motion-picture theaters.
   (E)   Clothing modeling studios.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Chief of Police for the
particular classification of business. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business without the
license or without the presence of an operator who has been disclosed pursuant
to division (B)(9) of this section. The Chief of Police shall not issue
licenses to two or more classifications of sexually oriented businesses to
operate in or on the same building, premises, structure, or other facility.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made by the owner of the business
on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police and submitted to the Asheboro
Police Department. The completed application shall contain the following
information and shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   The full true name of the applicant.
      (2)   The full true name under which the sexually oriented business will
be operated and, if the business will be operated in a name other than that of
the applicant, a certified copy of the assumed name certificate prepared and
recorded in the office of the county register of deeds pursuant to G.S. §§ 66-
68 et seq.
      (3)    The type of sexually oriented business the applicant intends to
operate.
      (4)   Whether the applicant intends to serve alcoholic beverages at the
sexually oriented business and/or apply for an ABC permit of any kind.
      (5)   The physical address where the sexually oriented business is to be
operated.
      (6)   If the owner of the real property upon which the sexually oriented
business is to be operated is not the applicant, the name and address of the
owner of the real property upon which the business is to be operated and a copy
of the lease or rental agreement.
      (7)   The principal telephone number to be used by the sexually oriented
business.
      (8)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the applicant shall appear in person and deliver
a completed and signed application form and provide the following information:
            1.   His or her present residence and business addresses and
telephone numbers: and
            2.   A valid driver’s license or other government-issued picture
identification.
         (b)   A partnership, limited liability company, or corporation, the
applicant shall designate one of its partners, managers, or officers to act as
its agent. Such person shall appear in person and deliver a completed and
signed application form and shall provide the following information:
            1.   His or her present residence and business addresses and
telephone numbers; and
            2.   A valid driver’s license or other government-issued picture
identification.
         (c)   In the case of a partnership or limited liability company, if
one or more of the partners or managers is a corporation, the provisions of
division (8)(d) shall apply. Additionally, the following information shall be
provided for the partnership or limited liability company:
            1.   The name, residence address, and telephone number of each
partner or manager; and
            2.   A copy of the partnership agreement or operating agreement for
the limited liability company.
         (d)   In the case of a corporation:
            1.   A certified copy of the articles of incorporation, a certified
copy of the certificate of authority, and a certified copy of the most recent
annual report filed with the Secretary of State; and
            2.   The name, residence address, and telephone number of each of
its current officers and directors and of any stockholder holding 50% or more
of the stock of the corporation.
      (9)   The name, residence address, and telephone number of each
individual who will be an operator of the business.
      (10)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The requirements of this
division (B)(10) shall not apply for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a sketch or diagram that was previously submitted for the license sought
to be renewed and if the licensee certifies that the licensed premises has not
been altered since the immediately preceding issuance of the license and that
the previous sketch or diagram continues to accurately depict the layout of the
licensed premises.
      (11)   A copy of a valid zoning compliance letter/certification issued by
the City of Asheboro Planning Department within three calendar months preceding
the date of application for a license under this chapter to operate a sexually
oriented business. Such a letter/certification must document full compliance by
the applicant’s proposed land use with the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance as of the
date of the issuance of the zoning compliance letter/certification. No fees
shall be charged by the City of Asheboro Planning Department for zoning
compliance letters/certifications requested by an applicant for the sole
purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (12)   If the applicant wishes to operate an adult live entertainment
business or an adult mini-motion-picture theater, the applicant shall comply
with the application requirements stated in §§
113.15 and
113.16.
   (C)    The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (D)   An applicant for a license under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section if
such information changes in any way from what is stated on the application. The
applicant shall supplement the application on file with the Police Department
within 30 days from the date of such change.
   (E)   If the Police Department determines or learns at any time that the
applicant has improperly completed the application for a proposed sexually
oriented business, it shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and
allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the application. The time
period for granting or denying a license shall be stayed during the period in
which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly complete the
application.
   (F)   Issuance of a sexually oriented business license does not excuse a
licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance, regulation, or
statute. By issuing a sexually oriented business license, the Chief of Police
has not determined that the recipient is in compliance with any applicable
local, state, or federal regulations or laws or that the recipient is otherwise
engaged in a legal activity or operating a business in a legal manner.
(‘69 Code, § 11-28) (Ord., passed 12-6-79; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
Penalty, see §
113.19
§ 113.05 ISSUANCE AND POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed application for a license
required under this chapter, the Chief of Police will approve or deny the
issuance of a license. Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, the applicant
shall be permitted to begin operating the business for which the license is
sought unless and until the Chief of Police notifies the applicant of a denial
of the application and states the reason for the denial.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
113.04(B)(8) or (9) is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
113.04(B)(8) or (9) has refused to allow an inspection of the premises as
authorized by §
113.07;
      (3)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
113.04(B)(8) or (9) has a license under this chapter which is suspended or
revoked;
      (4)   An applicant failed to provide the information necessary to
determine the qualifications of the applicant or any individual identified in
the application under §
113.04(B)(8) or (9) for issuance of the license, or provided materially false
or misleading information on the application form;
      (5)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
113.04(B)(8) or (9) has been convicted of any sexually oriented crime and less
than five years have elapsed since the latter of the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement, if the conviction is for a felony, or less
than two years have elapsed since the latter of the date of conviction or the
date of release from confinement, if the conviction is for a misdemeanor. The
fact that the conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the denial
of the license; or
      (6)   The application demonstrates or reveals information showing that
the proposed business fails to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The license must be posted in the sexually oriented business in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business so that it can be
read easily at any time.
(‘69 Code, § 11-32) (Ord., passed 12-6-79; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.06 RESERVED.
§ 113.07 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under §
113.04(B)(8) or (9) shall permit representatives of the Asheboro Police
Department to inspect the premises for the purpose of ensuring compliance with
this chapter prior to the issuance of a license.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.08 NOTICES.
   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Chief of Police or the
City Manager under this chapter to any applicant, licensee, owner, or operator
of a sexually oriented business may be given either by personal delivery or by
certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the
most current address as specified in the application for the license or any
notice of change of address actually received by the Chief of Police. Notices
mailed as provided in this section shall be deemed given upon their deposit in
the United States mail and shall be presumed to have been received on the third
regular postal delivery day thereafter.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.09 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a notice of violation if he or she
determines that a licensee, owner, operator, or employee has violated or is not
in compliance with any section of this chapter. The notice shall specify the
section of this chapter that has been violated.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall suspend a sexually oriented business license
for a period of 30 days if the violation has not been corrected or abated
within 20 days after the notice of violation has been received by the licensee,
owner, or operator.
   (C)   A decision by the Chief of Police to suspend a license shall not
become final until 20 days after notice of the decision has been received by
the licensee, owner, or operator.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business when such person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has been suspended.
(‘69 Code, § 11-33) (Ord., passed 12-6-79; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a sexually oriented business license
if a suspension of the license becomes effective following a notice of
violation which was issued within 12 months of the effective date of a previous
suspension.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a sexually oriented business license
if he or she determines that:
      (1)   An applicant or licensee provided materially false or misleading
information in the material submitted in the application process;
      (2)   A licensee, owner, or operator has knowingly allowed the
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee, owner, operator, or employee has knowingly allowed the
solicitation for prostitution or a crime against nature in or on the premises:
      (4)   A licensee, owner, operator, or employee has knowingly allowed any
act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, oral copulation, sodomy, or indecent
exposure to occur in or on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee, owner, operator, or employee has served alcoholic
beverages to a patron in or on the premises without the premises having the
proper ABC permit: or
      (6)   A licensee, owner, or operator has been convicted of a sexually
oriented crime since the license was issued. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license. For the
purpose of this division (B)(6), and with respect to adult live entertainment
licenses, the term “employee” shall not include an adult live entertainer.
   (C)   A decision by the Chief of Police to revoke a license shall not become
final until 20 days after notice of the decision has been received by the
licensee, owner, or operator.
   (D)   When the Chief of Police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business when such person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has been revoked.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.11 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   After a denial of an application for a sexually oriented business
license, a denial of an application for renewal of a sexually oriented business
license, or a suspension or revocation of a sexually oriented business license,
the applicant or licensee may appeal the denial, suspension, or revocation in
writing to the City Manager within 20 days after notice of the denial,
suspension, or revocation has been received. The City Manager shall hold a
hearing on whether to issue/renew the license or uphold the denial, suspension,
or revocation within five business days after the receipt of the appeal. The
applicant or licensee shall have the right to present evidence at the hearing.
The decision to issue/renew the license or uphold the denial, suspension, or
revocation shall be based solely on the criteria set forth in this chapter. The
City Manager shall render a decision on the appeal within five business days
after the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Upon receipt by the City Manager of a written appeal pursuant to
division (A) of this section, a denial of an application for renewal of the
license or a suspension or revocation of the license of any sexually oriented
business shall be stayed until a decision is rendered by the City Manager.
   (C)   The decision of the City Manager is subject to review in the superior
court of the county by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any petition
for a writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the clerk of superior
court within 30 days after notice of the decision has been received by the
applicant or licensee. A denial of an application for renewal of the license or
a suspension or revocation of the license of any sexually oriented business
shall be stayed until a decision is rendered by the superior court or the time
to petition the superior court for a writ of certiorari has expired. The
following shall apply to any appeal to superior court from a decision of the
City Manager:
      (1)   Unless good cause exists to contest a petition for a writ of
certiorari, the city shall stipulate to certiorari no later than five business
days after the petitioner requests such a stipulation.
      (2)   The city shall transmit the record to the court no later than five
business days after receiving the order allowing certiorari.
      (3)   Subject to the provisions of any local rule of the reviewing court
which provides for a shorter time period, the city shall file its brief within
15 days after it is served with the petitioner’s brief. If the petitioner
serves his or her brief by mail, the city shall add three days to this time
limit.
   (D)   An appeal by an applicant or licensee from the superior court of the
county shall be governed by the North Carolina Rules of Appellate Procedure
but, unless a court of competent jurisdiction otherwise provides, such appeal
shall not stay any action taken with regard to the license.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer a sexually oriented business license to
another person or to other premises. The transfer of a sexually oriented
business license shall automatically and immediately revoke the license.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.13 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each sexually oriented business license shall expire one year from the
date of issuance and may be renewed only by making application, as provided in
§
113.04. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the Chief of Police denies renewal of the license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license under this chapter for one year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to the denial, the Chief of Police determines that the
basis for the denial has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a
license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business when such person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has expired.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.14 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, owner, operator, or employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a license has been
issued for the business under this chapter, to knowingly, or with reasonable
cause to know, permit or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person who is under 18 years of age to the business
premises;
   (B)   A person who is under 18 years of age to remain at the business
premises;
   (C)   A person who is under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at
the business premises; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business as an
employee.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.15 ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   The private or semiprivate performance of adult live entertainment in
areas commonly known as VIP rooms, VIP booths, or VIP areas presents
opportunities for illegal activity such as, but not limited to, indecent
exposure and solicitation for prostitution. The purpose of this section is to
eliminate VIP adult live entertainment and to require all adult live
entertainment to occur in a manner and location that freely permits management
and a broad number of patrons to visually observe the entertainment so as to
minimize the opportunities for adult live entertainment to lead to illegal
activity. This section shall be interpreted and applied in light of this
purpose.
   (B)   An adult live entertainment business, regardless of whether or not a
license has been issued for the business under this chapter, shall be subject
to the following:
      (1)   An application for a sexually oriented business license for adult
live entertainment shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises specifying
areas where adult live entertainment may occur. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Chief of Police may waive the diagram for renewal applications if
the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that
the configuration of the premises and the areas where adult live entertainment
may occur required to be designated in the diagram have not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   Areas where adult live entertainment may occur must:
         (a)   Be at least 750 square feet in area;
         (b)   Contain one or more stages or raised areas where adult live
entertainment will occur;
         (c)   Be accessible to all patrons without payment of any charge other
than the charge, if any, for entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or
membership fee; and
         (d)   Not contain any areas visually screened, obstructed or separated
from the majority of the patrons located in that area, which patrons are
present in that area without payment of any charge other than the charge, if
any, for entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or membership fee.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration of the areas where adult live
entertainment may occur, as designated in the diagram required by division (B)
(1) of this section, may be made without first obtaining an amendment to the
license by submitting and receiving approval of a new diagram.
      (4)   Adult live entertainment may occur only:
         (a)   In the presence of and visually observable by an employee who is
not an adult live entertainer;
         (b)   In the presence of and visually observable by more than one
patron;
         (c)   In an area that is shown on an approved diagram as an area where
adult live entertainment may occur;
         (d)   In an area that is not visually screened, obstructed, or
separated from the majority of the patrons located in that area, which patrons
are present without payment of any charge other than the charge, if any, for
entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or membership fee; and
         (e)   In an area that is accessible to all patrons without payment of
any charge other than the charge, if any, for entry into the premises, such as
a cover charge or membership fee.
         (f)   It is unlawful for an adult live entertainer, while engaging in
or performing adult live entertainment, to receive directly any pay or gratuity
from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any
gratuity directly to the employee.
         (g)   It shall be unlawful for an adult live entertainer, while
engaging in or performing adult live entertainment, to knowingly and
intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer.
         (h)   When adult live entertainment is occurring, it is unlawful for
any person, other than an adult live entertainer who is at least six feet from
any patron or customer and on a stage that is raised a minimum of two feet from
the floor, to knowingly or intentionally exhibit specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner who is present on
the premises to ensure that adult live entertainment is not performed in the
presence of patrons in violation of division (B)(4) of this section. It shall
be unlawful for any such operator or owner to knowingly fail to fulfill that
duty.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for an adult live entertainer to engage in or
perform adult live entertainment in violation of division (B)(4) of this
section.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
113.19
§ 113.16 ADULT MINI-MOTION-PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   An adult mini-motion-picture theater, regardless of whether or not a
license has been issued for such business under this chapter, shall be subject
to the following:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A professionally prepared diagram in
the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or some designated street
or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions
sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The Chief of Police
may waive the diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without prior approval of the Chief of Police.
      (3)   At least one employee must be on duty and situated at each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present in or on the
premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two or more manager’s stations designated, the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the manager’s stations.
The view required in this division (A)(4) must be by direct line of sight from
the manager’s station.
      (5)   The entrance to each adult mini-motion- picture booth shall be free
of any obstruction such as a door, curtain, wall, partial wall, panel, board,
merchandise display rack, or other material.
      (6)   There shall be no openings or glass of any kind between booths, and
booths shall not be designed, constructed, or configured in such a manner that
the interior of any booth may be visible or made to be visible from any other
booth.
      (7)   The interior of each booth shall be sufficiently illuminated so
that the inside of the booth is visible from the manger’s station as set forth
in division (A)(4) of this section.
      (8)   No booth shall be occupied by more than one patron at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner or employees who
are present on the premises to ensure compliance with divisions (A)(3) through
(8) of this section. It shall be unlawful for any person having such a duty to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
113.19
§ 113.17 CLOTHING MODELING STUDIOS.
   (A)   A clothing modeling studio, regardless of whether or not a license has
been issued for such business under this chapter, shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to expose or display
the patron’s specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   A model shall not suggest or imply that a customer should or is
permitted to expose or display the patron’s specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   A model shall not expose or display the model’s specified
anatomical areas at any time the model is in the presence of a patron.
      (4)   A model shall not straddle a patron.
      (5)   A model shall not offer or agree to straddle a patron.
      (6)   A model shall not intentionally touch the clothed or unclothed body
of a patron at any point below the waist and above the knee of the patron.
      (7)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to touch the clothed
or unclothed body of the model at any point below the waist and above the knee
of the model.
      (8)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to touch the clothed
or unclothed breast of the model.
      (9)   All fees and charges, including tips and gratuities, paid by a
patron of a clothing modeling studio shall be paid to the model or the studio
before the modeling session begins. A model shall not solicit or accept any
tip, gratuity, or compensation from a patron in violation of this division (A)
(9).
      (10)   All modeling for a patron must occur in the presence of and be
visually observable by an employee who is not a model.
      (11)   The entrance to each room in which modeling for a patron is being
performed shall be free of any obstruction such as a door, curtain, wall,
partial wall, panel, board, or other device, and the entire interior of each
such room shall be visible from the aisle, walkway, or hallway leading to the
room.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner who is present on
the premises to ensure that clothing modeling is not performed in the presence
of a patron in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a model to violate any of the provisions of
division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
113.19
§ 113.18 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business regulated by this chapter may remain open for
business at any time between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10) Penalty, see §
113.19
§ 113.19 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person who commits an act declared to be unlawful by this chapter shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500. Each
violation shall be considered a separate and distinct offense, and each day of
continued violation shall be considered a separate offense. The issuance of a
notice of violation or a suspension or revocation of a sexually oriented
business license shall not prohibit the imposition of a criminal penalty, and
the imposition of a criminal penalty shall not prevent the issuance of a notice
of violation or a suspension or revocation of the license.
(‘69 Code, § 11-35) (Ord., passed 12-6-79; Am. Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
§ 113.20 CRIMINAL INJUNCTION.
   In addition to the issuance of a notice of violation, the suspension or
revocation of a sexually oriented business license, or a prosecution for
criminal violations, any person who violates this chapter may be subject to all
civil and equitable remedies stated in G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 28 ORD 5-10, passed 5-6-10)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Vehicle licenses required
Certificates of Convenience and Necessity
   
114.10   Certificate required
   
114.11   Application; consideration of application
   
114.12   Public hearing; notice
   
114.13   Burden of proof
   
114.14   Proof of applicant's financial responsibility required
   
114.15   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
114.16   Issuance or denial
   
114.17   Certificate constitutes franchise; duration; renewal
   
114.18   Certificate not transferable
   
114.19   Transfer of business control voids certificate
   
114.20   Duty of certificate holders upon discontinuance of business
   
114.21   Substitution of vehicle
   
114.22   Revocation; public hearing
   
114.23   Failure to begin operation constitutes revocation
Drivers' Permit
   
114.30   Permit required; valid North Carolina driver's license
   
114.31   Dates for making applications
   
114.32   Content of applications; photographs and fingerprints; files
   
114.33   Police investigation of applicant
   
114.34   Qualifications for granting of permit
   
114.35   Waiting period between application and issuance
   
114.36   Temporary driver's permit
   
114.37   Fees
   
114.38   Form of permit
   
114.39   Duration of permit; renewals
   
114.40   Display of permit required
   
114.41   Suspension or revocation for cause
Taximeters and Rates
   
114.50   Definition
   
114.51   Meters required on cabs; specifications; inspection
   
114.52   Use of inspected and approved meters required
   
114.53   Use of cab with improper meter prohibited
   
114.54   Prohibited acts relating to meters
   
114.55   Duties of drivers and prohibited acts
   
114.56   Determination of rate of fare; hourly rate
   
114.57   Authorized rates; meter to determine rates
   
114.58   Excessive charges prohibited; drivers to take shortest routes
   
114.59   Rates to be displayed in cabs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between such points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported; provided, that
TAXICAB shall not be construed to include motor vehicles of nine-passenger
capacity or less operated as ambulances or operated by the owner where the cost
of operation is shared by neighbor fellow workers between their homes and the
place of regular daily employment, when operated for not more than two trips
each way per day, nor automobiles operated by the owner where the cost of
operation is shared by the passengers on a "share the expense" plan, nor motor
vehicles transporting students for the public school system under contract with
the appropriate board of education, nor motor  vehicles leased to the United
States of America or to any of its agencies when such lease agreement is on a
nonprofit basis.
('69 Code, § 22-1) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.02 VEHICLE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   Every person, before operating any taxicab within the city or between the
city and points not incorporated within a radius of five miles of the city
shall apply to and secure from the City Clerk an annual license for the
privilege of operating each such taxicab, and shall pay for such annual license
a tax in the sum of $15 for each taxicab so operated.
(‘69 Code, § 22-2) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-
29-15)
Statutory reference:
   Taxicab license fees, see G.S. § 20-97
CERTIFICATES OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 114.10 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over
the streets of the city without first having applied for and secured from the
City Council a certificate of convenience and necessity as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over
the streets of the city without having a certificate of convenience and
necessity, secured from the City Council, which is currently in effect.
('69 Code, § 22-3) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.11 APPLICATION; CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
city shall file, on forms supplied by the City Clerk, an application for a
certificate of convenience and necessity; provided, that no application shall
be considered by the City Council if the applicant shall have completed a final
transaction leading to the purchase of part or the whole of another taxicab
company prior to making application to the City Council and giving it an
opportunity to reach its decision on the application.
('69 Code, § 22-4) (Ord. passed 11-13-47)
§ 114.12 PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall
be scheduled for a hearing not later than 35 days after it is filed, and the
applicant shall be notified by the City Clerk by mail to the business address
set forth in the application of the date, time and place of such hearing, such
notification to be sent at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall, within the same time, notify all persons who
then hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the operation of
taxicabs within the municipality, of the date, time and place of such hearing,
and the name of the applicant. In addition, the City Clerk shall cause to be
published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation, at least ten
days before the hearing, a notice setting forth the name of the applicant and
the date, time and place of the hearing. The cost of such publication shall be
paid for by the applicant.
('69 Code, § 22-5) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.13 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in his application, and all other facts required for the
granting of a certificate.
('69 Code, § 22-6) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.14 PROOF OF APPLICANT'S FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City Council shall not issue any certificate of convenience and
necessity, franchise, license, permit or other privilege or authority to any
person authorizing such person to engage in the business of operating a taxicab
or taxicabs within the city unless such person first files with the City
Council proof of financial responsibility as hereinafter defined.
   (B)   As used in this section, "proof of financial responsibility" shall
mean a certificate of any insurance carrier duly authorized to do business in
the state certifying that there is in effect a policy of liability insurance
insuring the owner and operator of the taxicab business, his agents and
employees while in the performance of their duties against loss from any
liability imposed by law for damages including damages for care and loss of
services because of bodily injury to or death of any person and injury to or
destruction of property caused by accident and arising out of the ownership,
use or operation of such taxicab or taxicabs subject to limits (exclusive of
interests and costs) with respect to each such motor vehicle as follows:
$100,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident
and, subject to such limit for one person, $300,000 because of bodily injury to
or death of two or more persons in any one accident, and $50,000 because of
injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.
('69 Code, § 22-7) (Ord. passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 3-7-91)
§ 114.15 DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the granting of a certificate for such taxicab or taxicabs as set forth in an
application, the City Council shall, among other things, take into
consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or additional taxicab service within the city.
      (2)   The general financial responsibility of the applicant and the
likelihood of the proposed service being permanent, responsible and
satisfactory.
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment.
      (4)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of such taxicabs.
      (5)   The experience of applicant in the taxicab business.
      (6)   Such other pertinent facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable
for consideration by the City Council.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the City Council or a committee
thereof shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts, and may, if
it so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of
Police or any other officer or employee of the city.
('69 Code, § 22-8) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.16 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   The City Council shall order or refuse to order that a certificate of
convenience and necessity be issued on any application, or shall order the
issuance of such certificate for only a partial exercise of the privileges
sought, and may attach to the rights granted by any such certificate such terms
and conditions as in their judgment the public convenience and necessity may
require.
('69 Code, § 22-9) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.17 CERTIFICATE CONSTITUTES FRANCHISE; DURATION; RENEWAL.
   A certificate of convenience and necessity shall constitute a franchise from
the city for the operation of taxicabs within the city, subject to the
provisions of this chapter for one year, unless a shorter period of time is
specified in the certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed annually
and hearings thereon may be conducted as provided in this subchapter for
original applications.
('69 Code, § 22-10) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.18 CERTIFICATE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Certificates of convenience and necessity, constituting taxicab franchise
business licenses, are personal and cannot be transferred by the person to whom
issued.
('69 Code, § 22-11) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 11-13-47; Am.
Ord., passed 9-9-48)
§ 114.19 TRANSFER OF BUSINESS CONTROL VOIDS CERTIFICATE.
   Whenever a change in the controlling interest in any firm or corporation
holding a certificate of convenience and necessity under this chapter shall
take place, such certificate shall thereupon become null and void.
('69 Code, § 22-12) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 11-13-47; Am.
Ord., passed 9-9-48)
§ 114.20 DUTY OF CERTIFICATE HOLDERS UPON DISCONTINUANCE OF BUSINESS.
   Any person holding a certificate of convenience and necessity for the
operation of taxicabs within and from the city who shall plan to discontinue or
who discontinues regular operation and service of such business shall notify
the City Clerk in writing of such action. Discontinuance of regular service for
a period of more than 30 days shall automatically cancel any certificate of
convenience and necessity, franchise or license issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
('69 Code, § 22-13) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 11-13-47; Am.
Ord., passed 9-9-48)
§ 114.21 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLE.
   Any person to whom a certificate of convenience and necessity has been
issued may, by appropriate endorsement thereon by the City Clerk, substitute
another vehicle or vehicles for the vehicle or vehicles for which such
certificate was granted; provided, that in any such instance the liability
insurance required by §
114.14 shall forthwith be transferred to such substitute vehicle or vehicles.
('69 Code, § 22-14) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.22 REVOCATION; PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The City Council may, at any time after a public hearing upon the
subject, revoke any certificate of convenience and necessity issued by
authority of this chapter for any one or more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicabs specified in the certificate in
such manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently.
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair.
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance as required by this chapter.
      (4)   Failure to pay to the city tax or license fee of $15 imposed upon
each taxicab.
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety regulations of this Code, or state laws relating to alcoholic
beverages or prostitution.
      (6)   Failure to report accidents.
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this Code or state
law relating to the operation of taxicabs.
      (8)   Failure to prevent drivers employed by a taxicab company owner from
transporting customers in nonlicensed taxicabs or privately owned vehicles.
   (B)   No certificate of convenience and necessity shall be revoked until the
holder thereof has had at least five days notice by personal service or
registered mail of the charges against him, and of the date, time and place of
hearing. If, after hearing, it is found that the certificate holder is guilty
of one or more of the offenses listed herein, the City Council shall have the
power to revoke the certificate, or to condition a revocation upon compliance
of its order within any time fixed by it.
('69 Code, § 22-15) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 11-3-47)
§ 114.23 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATION CONSTITUTES REVOCATION.
   If a certificate of convenience and necessity is granted to an applicant and
he shall fail, in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin
operations within 60 days after the date thereof, then such certificate shall
become null and void.
('69 Code, § 22-16) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
DRIVERS' PERMIT
§ 114.30 PERMIT REQUIRED; VALID NORTH CAROLINA DRIVER'S LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from
place to place within the city, or between the city and points, not
incorporated, within a radius of five miles of the city unless he shall have
first applied to and secured from the City Council a taxicab driver's permit.
   (B)   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from
place to place within the city or between the city and points not incorporated
within a radius of five miles of the city unless he shall have in his
possession a city taxicab driver's permit and a valid North Carolina driver's
license permitting such driver to operate a taxicab, each currently in effect.
('69 Code, § 22-17) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 3-7-91)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.31 DATES FOR MAKING APPLICATIONS.
   An application for an original taxicab driver's permit may be made at any
time while the applicant is qualified for issuance of such permit to him. All
applications for annual renewal of taxicab drivers' permits shall be made
before January 1 of each year, and no reduction in the permit fee shall be made
for any renewal of permit for which application is made after January 1.
('69 Code, § 22-18) (Ord. passed 1-10-52)
§ 114.32 CONTENT OF APPLICATIONS; PHOTOGRAPHS AND FINGERPRINTS; FILES.
   (A)   Each applicant for a taxicab driver's permit shall make application
therefor, upon forms provided by the City Clerk for such purpose, and he shall
state thereon, among other things, his name, address, physical condition and
physical description; former employers; court record; North Carolina driver's
license number and length of residence in this state and in this county. Such
application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant.
   (B)   The applicant shall then appear at the office of the Police Department
for the purpose of having his fingerprints taken and photograph made, both of
which shall constitute a part of his application.
   (C)   The original copy of each application shall be retained on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and duplicate copies shall remain on file in the
office of the Chief of Police.
('69 Code, § 22-19) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 4-4-63; Am.
Ord., passed 3-7-90)
§ 114.33 POLICE INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   The City Clerk, upon receipt of a sworn application for a taxicab driver's
permit, shall transmit a copy thereof promptly to the Chief of Police, who
shall investigate the facts stated therein. The Chief of Police shall then
report his findings and recommendations to the City Manager.
('69 Code, § 22-20) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 3-7-91; Am.
Ord. 11-01, passed 8-9-01)
§ 114.34 QUALIFICATIONS FOR GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   If the City Manager finds that an applicant for a taxicab driver's permit
has not been convicted of a felony, a violation of any federal or state statute
relating to the use, transportation, possession or sale of alcoholic beverages,
any federal or state statute relating to prostitution, or any federal or state
statute relating to the use, transportation, possession or sale of narcotic or
barbiturate drugs; and that the applicant is lawfully or legally present in the
United States and has resided in the state for at least 30 days and is not
addicted to or an habitual user of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs, and has not been an habitual violator of traffic laws, the
City Manager shall order the City Clerk to issue a taxicab driver's permit to
such applicant.
('69 Code, § 22-21) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-52; Am.
Ord. passed 4-4-63; Am. Ord. passed 3-7-91; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 8-9-01; Am.
Ord. 36-02, passed 10-10-02)
§ 114.35 WAITING PERIOD BETWEEN APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE.
   No taxicab driver's permit shall be issued until the report from the Chief
of Police containing his findings and recommendations has been received by the
City Manager, and the City Manager has approved the issuance of such taxicab
driver's permit.
(Ord. passed 3-7-91; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 8-9-01)
§ 114.36 TEMPORARY DRIVER'S PERMIT.
   The City Manager or his designee may issue a nonrenewable, temporary
driver's permit to any applicant who has maintained a valid North Carolina
driver's license ad has not been convicted of any crime. This temporary
driver's permit shall be valid for a maximum of 45 days from issue or until his
driver's permit has been issued or denied pursuant to §
114.34.
(Ord. passed 3-7-91)
§ 114.37 FEES.
   The City Clerk shall charge a fee of $3 for each original taxicab driver's
permit and a fee of $.50 for each annual renewal thereof.
('69 Code, § 22-23) (Ord. passed 3-7-46; Am. Ord., passed 9-9-48; Am. Ord.,
passed 1-10-52; Am Ord., passed 1-17-52)
§ 114.38 FORM OF PERMIT.
   Taxicab drivers' permits shall be in substantially the following form.
Taxicab Driver's Permit
      Permit No.         City of Asheboro, N.C.
                  Date of issuance       
                  Date of expiration     
      Issued to:                                  
      Address:                                   
      Age:    Weight:     Height:     Race:       
(Photo)   Color of hair:       Color of eyes:      
      Good until expiration date
      shown above unless earlier revoked
      by the City Council of the City of
      Asheboro, N. C.
      (Signed)                              City Clerk
      This permit must be displayed at all times when operating taxi.
('69 Code, § 22-24) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
§ 114.39 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWALS.
   A taxicab driver's permit granted pursuant to this subchapter shall entitle
the person to whom it is granted to drive a taxicab until December 31 of the
year in which it is granted, and it shall be necessary for the holder of the
permit to obtain a new permit as provided in this subchapter before he is
allowed to drive a taxicab after December 31st of each year.
('69 Code, § 22-25) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord., passed 1-10-52)
§ 114.40 DISPLAY OF PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The driver of every taxicab shall, at all times while operating such
taxicab, prominently post and display in such taxicab, so as to be visible to
the passengers therein, his permit to drive a taxicab, with his photograph
attached.
('69 Code, § 22-26) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.41 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION FOR CAUSE.
   The City Council retains the power to suspend or revoke for just cause any
taxicab driver's permit, and may consider that just cause exists if the person
holding such permit is convicted of a felony, a violation of any federal or
state statute relating to the use, transportation, possession or sale of
alcoholic beverages; a violation of any federal or state statute relating to
the use, transportation, possession or sale of narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
repeated violations of traffic laws or ordinances; a violation of any state or
federal statute relating to prostitution; or becomes an habitual user of
alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs; provided, that this
enumeration of grounds which may be considered as just cause shall not be
construed as exclusive.
('69 Code, § 22-27) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-52; Am.
Ord. 36-02, passed 10-10-02)
TAXIMETERS AND RATES
§ 114.50 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire of
a taxicab is mechanically calculated, either for distance traveled or for
waiting time, or both, and upon which such charge shall be indicated by means
of legible figures which are electrically lighted each time the taximeter flag
is thrown from nonearning to earning position.
('69 Code, § 22-28) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
§ 114.51 METERS REQUIRED ON CABS; SPECIFICATIONS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every taxicab shall have affixed thereto, and the driver thereof shall
use, a taximeter of a size and design approved by the City Council and which
shall conform to the following specifications: Such taximeter must register
upon visual counters the following items:
      (1)   Total miles;
      (2)   Paid miles;
      (3)   Number of units;
      (4)   Number of trips.
   (B)   Each taximeter must be furnished with a tamper-proof switch and system
of electrical distribution so that, when the meter flag is thrown to an earning
position, the fare indicator on the taximeter will be lighted.
   (C)   No certificate of convenience and necessity shall be issued for a
taxicab until the taximeter attached to such taxicab shall have been inspected
by the Police Department and found to be accurate.
('69 Code, § 22-29) (Ord., passed 5-5-55; Am. Ord. 14 ORD 5-11, passed 5-5-11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.52 USE OF INSPECTED AND APPROVED METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab to be operated for public hire
unless it is equipped with a taximeter, which shall be inspected and used as
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a taxicab to which is
attached a taximeter that has not been inspected and approved as provided in
this subchapter.
('69 Code, § 22-30) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.53 USE OF CAB WITH IMPROPER METER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall use or permit to be used upon any taxicab a taximeter
which shall be in such a condition as to be over 5% incorrect to the prejudice
of any passenger.
   (B)   No person shall use or permit to be used, or driven for hire, a
taxicab equipped with a taxi-meter the case of which is unsealed and not having
its cover and gear intact.
('69 Code, § 22-31) (Ord., passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.54 PROHIBITED ACTS RELATING TO METERS.
   It shall be unlawful to change the size of the wheels or tires of a taxicab
in such manner as to cause the 5% tolerance mentioned in §
114.53 to be exceeded, or to change the gears operating the taximeter or to
change a taximeter from one taxicab to another unless the taximeter is retested
and approved by the Chief of Police.
('69 Code, § 22-32) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.55 DUTIES OF DRIVERS AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No driver of a taxicab equipped with a taximeter, while carrying passengers
or under employment, shall display the signal affixed to such taximeter in such
a position as to denote such vehicle is not employed, or in such position as to
denote that he is employed at a rate of fare different from that to which he is
entitled under the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the
driver to call the attention of passengers to the amount registered, and the
taxicab flag shall not be changed to the vacant position until after the fare
is paid. If demanded by a passenger, the driver shall give to the person paying
the fare, at the time of such payment, his name, permit number, taxicab number
and the name of the owner. It shall be unlawful for any driver to carry any
person without the earning signal on the taximeter being in operation.
('69 Code, § 22-33) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.56 DETERMINATION OF RATE OF FARE; HOURLY RATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, operating or driving a taxicab
to operate or drive such taxicab unless such taximeter is used in determining
the fare to be charged, and no other or different fare shall be charged to a
passenger than is recorded on the reading face of such taximeter for a trip;
except, that the hourly rate may be used by mutual agreement between the
passenger and the owner of the taxicab. No other rates or methods of measuring
the distance or time charges shall be allowed, except as herein provided.
('69 Code, § 22-34) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.57 AUTHORIZED RATES; METER TO DETERMINE RATES.
   (A)   No person owning, driving or controlling any taxicab within the city
shall charge so as to exceed the following rates, to be determined by the
taximeter:
      (1)   $2.00 for the first one-tenth mile or fraction thereof.
      (2)   $.21 for each additional one-tenth mile.
      (3)   An additional charge for package and grocery trips at $.25 each.
      (4)   An additional fee for moving heavy or bulky items may be charged at
$1.00 each.
   (B)   Waiting time shall be at the rate of $.30 per minute.
('69 Code, § 22-35) (Ord., passed 5-5-55; Am. Ord., passed 1-4-73; Am. Ord.,
passed 1-8-76; Am. Mo., passed 8-5-82; Am. Ord., passed 3-7-91; Am. Ord. 3-93,
passed 2-11-93; Am. Ord. 8-00, passed 8-10-00; Am. Ord. 40 ORD 8-06, passed 8-
10-06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.58 EXCESSIVE CHARGES PROHIBITED; DRIVERS TO TAKE SHORTEST ROUTES.
   No person owning, driving or controlling a taxicab shall charge or attempt
to charge any passenger a greater rate of fare than that to which he is
entitled under the provisions of this chapter. All taxicab drivers shall travel
the nearest and most direct route to the point of destination unless directed
to do otherwise by the passenger.
('69 Code, § 22-36) (Ord. passed 5-5-55)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 114.59 RATES TO BE DISPLAYED IN CABS.
   Every taxicab operated within the city or between the city and points not
incorporated within a radius of five miles of the city shall have at all times
prominently posted and displayed in such taxicab, so as to be visible to the
passengers therein, the rates and fares for the use of such cab.
('69 Code, § 22-37) (Ord. 168, passed 10-4-45)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 115: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Section
   
115.01   Standards; examination and stamping
§ 115.01 STANDARDS; EXAMINATION AND STAMPING.
   All weights and measures, steelyards, balances and all other instruments
used for weighing and measuring, within the city, in buying or selling or
bartering, or for hire, or in determining the amount of toll or charge or rate
for any service, shall be in accordance with the standards prescribed by the
laws of the United States and the state.
('69 Code, § 24-1)
CHAPTER 116: RESERVED
CHAPTER 117: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Short title
   
117.02   Statement of intent and purpose
   
117.03   Definitions
   117.04 - 117.10   Reserved
Franchise Generally
   
117.11   Franchise requirements
   
117.12   Franchise renewal
   
117.13   Grant of additional franchise and competing service
   
117.14   Permits for non-franchised entities
   
117.15   Application and renewal fees
   
117.16   Design provisions
   
117.17   Drops to public buildings
   
117.18   Use of grantee facilities
   
117.19   Upgrade of system
   
117.20   Non-discriminatory access to cable system
   
117.21   Institutional network and public, educational and government access
Technical Standards
   
117.22   General technical standards
   
117.23   Books and records available to grantor
   
117.24   Technical standards compliance
   
117.25   Test and compliance procedure
   
117.26   Emergency requirements
   
117.27   Programming decisions
   
117.28   Parental control
   
117.29   Periodic subscriber survey
   
117.30   Installations exceeding standard installation
   
117.31   Service area and line extension policy
   
117.32   City monitoring
   
117.33   Access to inside wiring
Construction Standards
   
117.34   Right-of-way construction
General Financial and Insurance Provisions
   
117.35   Franchise fee
   
117.36   Performance bond
   
117.37   Penalties procedure
   
117.38   Bonds, indemnification and insurance
Revocation
   
117.39   Grounds for revocation
   
117.40   Procedure for revocation
Foreclosure and Receivership
   
117.41   Foreclosure
   
117.42   Receivership
Purchase of System
   
117.43   Purchase by grantor
   
117.44   Sale or transfer
Rights of Individuals Protected
   
117.45   Discriminatory practices prohibited
   
117.46   Subscriber privacy
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
117.47   Rate regulation
   
117.48   Rights reserved to grantor
   
117.49   Non-enforcement by city
   
117.50   Governing law and choice of forum
   
117.51   Severability
   
117.52   Publication of notices
   
117.53   System construction capabilities and schedule
   
117.54   Customer service standards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Asheboro Ordinance for Regulations of the
Cable Communications.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.02 STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The city, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is authorized to
grant one or more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain, and
reconstruct cable systems within the incorporated areas of the city.
   (A)   The City Council finds that cable service has become an integral part
of its citizens' lives, and that evolving cable systems have the potential to
play an even more dramatic role in the future, providing great benefits and
advanced capabilities to the city. At the same time, the Council further finds
that the public convenience, safety, and general welfare can best be served by
establishing regulatory powers that are vested in the city or such persons as
the city designates.
   (B)   In order to ensure that the city and its residents receive state-of-
the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further evolves, all
franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to periodic review
to keep current with changing law, technology, and services. It is the intent
of this chapter to help ensure that local cable operators provide the best
possible cable service to residents of the city, and any franchises issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral
part thereof.
   (C)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity to
provide entertainment and information services to the city's residents, and may
have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive communications
services to institutions and individuals. For these purposes, the following
goals underlie the regulations contained herein:
      (1)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
city's residents at the lowest reasonable cost.
      (2)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present and
reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of the
city.
   (D)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public. Each of
the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the maximum extent, taking into
account the costs and benefits to the residents of the city.
   (E)   The Council further finds that on-going industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement non-compliance to the city and its residents.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future tense,
words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The words SHALL and WILL are
mandatory and MAY is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common
and ordinary meaning.
   ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided over
the system.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any cable service tier that includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access programming required by this chapter or a
franchise agreement to be carried on the basic tier. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as
defined herein shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7) (1997), and shall
include any signal of any television broadcast station that is provided by a
grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which is secondarily transmitted by
a satellite carrier beyond the local service area of such station. Additional
signals may be added to the basic tier by the grantee.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Asheboro, North Carolina or its
delegates.
   CABLE ACT or CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any cable service offered by a grantee
whereby persons receive access to the internet or high-speed data information
services through the cable system
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE. The one-way transmission to subscribers of (i)
video programming, or (ii) other programming service; subscriber interaction,
if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or
other programming service; and for purposes of this chapter. Cable internet
service shall be considered CABLE SERVICE unless determined otherwise by state
or federal law.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set of
closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area, but such term does not include: a
facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more
television broadcast stations; a facility that serves subscribers without using
any public right-of-way; or a facility of a common carrier which is subject, in
whole or in part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201-226, except that such
facility shall be considered a CABLE SYSTEM to the extent such facility,
whether on a common carrier basis or otherwise, is used in the transmission of
video programming directly to subscribers.
   CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined in
a franchise agreement that may at the city's discretion be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-Net.
   CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is capable
of carrying one standard video signal, in either analog or digital form.
Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable law, the parties
may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual franchise
agreement.
   CITY. The City of Asheboro, North Carolina, as it is now, or may in the
future be, constituted.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the City Manager to represent the
city in all business with the grantee.
   COMPLAINT. Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation, or assertion, made
by a person regarding service.
   CONTROL. The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder of
the franchise, the service provider or system owner or operator, regardless of
whether such control is direct or indirect, or is exercised or is permitted to
be exercised directly or indirectly through other persons, holdings or
entities. CONTROL  shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any person or
entity that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or
practice of the holder of the franchise or the service provider, whether such
control may be exercised directly, or indirectly through other persons,
holdings or entities.
   CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
   DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS. The costs actually incurred by grantee in meeting
an obligation under its franchise which grantee would not otherwise have
incurred in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system or meet another obligation of the franchise.
   DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio, or digital
signals or any other type of data or information for either programs or other
uses such as security alert services, etc.
   DROP.  The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
   EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial educational access programming use.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the city.
   FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or a designated representative.
   FRANCHISE. The rights and obligations extended by the city pursuant to an
initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own, lease,
construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the right-of-way within the
franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services. Any such
authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
      (1)   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city, including the provision of telecommunications
services;
      (2)   Any generally applicable non-discriminatory permit, agreement, or
authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way
including, without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits, or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private
entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along the right-of-
way.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. That document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
chapter.
   FRANCHISE AREA.  The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under
the authority of this chapter. If not otherwise specifically stated in the
franchise agreement, the franchise area shall be the entire geographic
incorporated area within the city as it is now, or may in the future be,
constituted.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the city
or other governmental entity on a grantee solely because of its status and
activities as such. FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability (including any
such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or
their services but not including a tax, fee, or assessment that is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement to be
incurred by a grantee for public access channels equipment and facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of a
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, compliance audits, penalties, or liquidated
damages; or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under Title 17 of the United States Code.
   GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial governmental access programming use.
   GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person's lawful
successors, transferees, or assignees.
   GRANTOR. The City of Asheboro, North Carolina.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash,
credits, barter, trade, property or consideration of any kind or nature,
arising from, attributable to, or in any way derived by the grantee from the
operation of a grantee's system to provide cable service, whether such revenue
is received by the grantee, its affiliates, or any person in which the grantee
has a financial interest, or by any other person who operates the system,
directly or indirectly. This definition is intended to reach as broadly as
possible to encompass all revenue. GROSS REVENUES  includes, by way of
illustration and not limitation, amounts charged for basic service; optional
premium, per-channel, per-program services; cable programming services; audio
services; launch fees; channel guide subscriptions; installation,
disconnection, reconnection, and changes-in-service; equipment sales or
rentals; leased channel fees; late fees and administrative charges of any type;
consideration received from programmers; advertising revenue; and revenue from
the sale of subscriber names and addresses. To the extent that grantee receives
revenue from cable services provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that
also includes non-cable services (i.e., those services are bundled), grantee
shall allocate an appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in gross
revenues. If the fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the
aggregate of the prices of those services if purchased individually, then the
appropriate amount of the revenue to be allocated to each service shall be
proportional to the individual price of that service when compared to the
aggregate of the individual prices of those services when unbundled. GROSS
REVENUES shall not include:
      (1)   Bad debt except to the extent that bad debt is recovered.
      (2)   The revenue of any person including, without limitation, a supplier
of programming to the grantee to the extent that said revenue is also included
in gross revenue of the grantee.
      (3)   Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from entities other than the grantee, which
services benefit only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither received nor provides any consideration.
      (4)   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are imposed
directly on any subscriber by the state, the city or other governmental unit
and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of said governmental unit. A
franchise fee is not such a tax.
      (5)   To the extent the scope of gross revenues is limited by federal law
or judicial action, the definitions herein shall be so amended.
   HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter, and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET. Capacity, fibers or both, from both within
the primary cable network and/or separately constructed networks that are
dedicated to municipal users or other governmental and educational users as
determined by the city for two-way, broadband, non-commercial, non-competitive,
not-for-profit communications. I-NET includes all equipment and maintenance of
equipment required to make the capacity available including but not limited to
fiber, cable modems, coaxial cable, and all switching, routing, transmitting
and receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-Net as determined in the
individual franchise agreement.
   INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES. The provision of an I-Net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the city, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for non-commercial,
non-competitive, not-for-profit applications including but not limited to, two-
way dedicated voice, data, video, Internet and telephony channels connecting
and interconnecting user facilities; computerizedtraffic-control systems; GIS
systems; and the interconnection of facilities serving police, fire and other
public safety systems.
   LOCKOUT DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber's
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
   NON-COMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that are operated on a not-for-
profit basis.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS
must include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Any and all situations or conditions that are
ordinarily within the control of a grantee, including, but not limited to,
management or corporate decisions; employee conduct; staffing levels; special
promotions; pay-per-view events; rate increases; regular peak or seasonal
demand periods; electronic and video equipment; and maintenance, repair or
upgrade of the cable system, and any associated computer or software systems.
Those conditions that are not within the control of a grantee include, but are
not limited to, natural disasters; civil disturbances; power outages; telephone
network outages; and severe or unusual weather conditions. A condition shall
not be deemed to be beyond the grantee's control if committed by a corporation
or other business entity which the grantee controls.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE.  Information that a grantee makes available to
all subscribers generally.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
   PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally produced
non- commercial public access programming use.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the city or grantee at such
location as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the
address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent
by certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to
that day in which the party giving such notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing said seven days, holidays
recognized by the city shall be excluded.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter,
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the city, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the city has an interest in
law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including, but not limited to, any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park, or any other place, area,
easements, right-of-ways and similar public property and areas, or real
property owned by or under the control of the city.
   SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or nonprofit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION.  The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a single
point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber's residence.
   STATE-OF-THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment as
they are developed, available and when economically feasible and marketable to
subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise agreement.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe for any purpose to
cable service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the
cable system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and
lawfully activated to receive cable service from grantee's cable system.
   SYSTEM.  A grantee's cable system operated pursuant to a franchise agreement
within the franchise area.
   TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE.  Employees of the grantee who have the authority and
capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills, and schedule service and installation calls.
   UPSTREAM SIGNAL.  A signal originating from a subscriber's terminal to the
head end of the system including video, audio, or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses such as security
alert services, etc.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§§ 117.04 - 117.10 RESERVED.
FRANCHISE GENERALLY
§ 117.11 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain
a cable system or to provide cable service in the city without a franchise. Any
such person shall be subject to a fine of $500 per day. The payment of such
fine notwithstanding, all such violators shall be subject to all other
applicable provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to the payment
of a franchise fee.
   (B)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be nonexclusive.
The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such
additional franchises for a cable system or any component thereof, to any other
person including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable federal
and state law.
   (C)   In the event the city grants more than one franchise or similar
authorization for the construction, operation, or maintenance of any cable
system to a qualified person in the city, the city shall grant the franchises
on terms that are non-discriminatory and competitively neutral, provided that
nothing herein shall be construed as requiring the use of identical terms or
conditions, in accordance with federal law.
   (D)   A franchise agreement shall establish the term of each individual
franchise.
   (E)   Federal, state, and city jurisdiction.
      (1)   The city shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter, the Cable Act, and all applicable laws. This
authority shall be vested in the City Council and administered through the City
Manager or his/her designee in order to provide day-to-day administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and any franchise granted
hereunder, and to carry out the city's responsibilities with regard to cable
service.
      (2)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
      (3)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in such manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, grantor may, if it so elects, adopt rules and regulations
in these areas to the extent permitted by law, provided the same do not
materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under any existing
franchise.
      (4)   Grantee's rights are subject to the police powers of the city to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public. Grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall
also apply to all existing franchises, to the extent not inconsistent with the
terms of any such franchise or applicable law. In the event of any conflict
between the terms and conditions of a franchise agreement and the provisions of
this chapter, and other generally applicable regulatory ordinances of the city,
the terms of this chapter shall control unless otherwise expressly set forth in
the franchise agreement. A franchise agreement (including all of grantee's
particular rights, powers, protections, privileges, immunities and obligations
associated therewith as the same exist on the date hereof) shall constitute a
legally binding contract between the city and grantee, and as such, cannot be
amended, modified or changed by the city or grantee without the consent of
grantee and grantor in any manner whatsoever, whether by ordinance, rule,
regulation or otherwise, to impose on grantee more stringent or burdensome
requirements or conditions; provided, however, that nothing herein contained
shall preclude the city from the proper exercise of its police powers, or its
powers of eminent domain.
      (6)   In the event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the city to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed upon manner.
      (7)   Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   Rights reserved to grantor. In addition to any rights specifically
reserved to grantor by this chapter or a franchise agreement, grantor reserves
to itself every right and power that is required to be reserved by a provision
of any other ordinance or under any other franchise.
   (G)   Franchise agreement.
      (1)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a
franchise agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor.
      (2)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to
be included in the franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain
the following express representations by each grantee:
         (a)   Grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and
accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter, as it exists as of
the effective date of the grantee's franchise agreement.
         (b)   Grantee recognizes, unless otherwise agreed in the applicable
franchise agreement, the right of the city to adopt such additional regulations
of general applicability as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its
police power.
      (3)   Every franchise agreement shall contain such further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the city and a grantee, except that no
such conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any provisions
of state or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity between
any terms or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the
provisions of the chapter shall control, unless expressly set forth in the
franchise agreement.
   (H)   Initial franchise applications. Any person desiring an initial
franchise for a cable system shall file an application with the city. An
application for an initial franchise for a cable television system shall
contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical, and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors, and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete, and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the city may require for the
administration of the franchise.
   (I)   Consideration of initial applications. Upon receipt of any application
and application fee for an initial franchise, the City Administrator shall
prepare a report and make his or her recommendations respecting such
application to the Council.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.12 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law including, but
not limited to, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended.
Grantor and a grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations
at any time during the term of the franchise.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.13 GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE AND COMPETING SERVICE.
   Competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the public
right-of-ways and on the quality and availability of services to the public. In
considering whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the city shall
specifically consider, and address in a written report or in provisions of the
franchise agreement, the following issues:
   (A)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on the
community.
   (B)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question to
provide cable services to the franchise area.
   (C)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete construction
of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area; and, whether
the applicant can complete construction and activation of its system in a
timely manner.
   (D)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain, and operate the
proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term. In order to
ensure that any prospective grantee does have the requisite current financial
capabilities, the city may request equity and debt financing commitment
letters, current audited financial statements, bonds, letters of credit, or
other documentation to demonstrate to the city's satisfaction that the
requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed system are available.
   (E)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant's plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals, and the applicant's technical qualifications to construct and operate
such system.
   (F)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance, and
operation of a cable system.
   (G)   The capacity of the public right-of-ways to accommodate one or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public right-of-
ways and private property that may occur if one or more additional franchises
are granted.
   (H)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise.
   (I)   Such other information as the city may deem appropriate to be
considered prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise.
   (J)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition which
may occur among grantees will be on terms which when taken as a whole are non-
discriminatory according to federal law.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.14 PERMITS FOR NON-FRANCHISED ENTITIES.
   (A)   The city may issue a license, easement, or other permit to a person
other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of the
grantee's franchise area within the city in order to provide service outside,
but not within the city. Such license or easement, absent a grant of a
franchise in accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit said
person to provide cable service to any subscriber within the city nor render
any other service within the city. The granting of such license, easement or
permit shall be conditioned upon the payment of fee for occupancy of the public
right-of-way to the extent permitted by applicable law.
   (B)   Review for competition. The city recognizes that the cable television
and telecommunications industries are in a period of convergence, that the
technologies and services provided by these industries are rapidly changing,
and that the Telecommunications Act of 1996 promoted and encouraged competition
between and among these formally discrete industries. At this time it is
premature to know fully the extent to which there will be changes in law,
technology or services that may impact entities that have been or may be
granted franchises or licenses to use the city's right-of-ways. It is the
desire of the city to be a communications friendly city that encourages the
development of competitive advanced communications capabilities for the benefit
of all its citizens. For this reason the regulatory ordinances and franchises
of the city should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but
rather are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all
similarly situated providers.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.15 APPLICATION AND RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be franchise fees within the
meaning of Section 622 ofthe Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and such payments
shall not be deemed to be:
      (1)   Payments in kind or any involuntary payments chargeable against the
compensation to be paid to the city by grantee, or
      (2)   Part of the compensation to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant
to this chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   All applicants for an initial franchise grant shall submit an
application fee of $2,500 to compensate the city for its costs in reviewing,
preparing and awarding a franchise, including the costs of outside consultants.
Upon grant of a franchise the grantee shall pay a one-time fee to the city in
the amount of $15,000, which sum shall be due and payable concurrently with the
grantee's acceptance of the franchise agreement. Consistent with the Cable Act,
all such fees shall not constitute or be credited towards a grantee's franchise
fee obligation.
   (C)   The city reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable law, to
require a grantee to pay the incidental costs of the franchise renewal and
negotiation process. Incidental costs include staff time, professional fees,
and administrative costs as stated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.16 DESIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current and future
needs of the city, taking into account the costs of meeting those needs. The
franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the grantee's
application including the general design and capabilities of the system to
identify for the city how the system will meet the current and future cable
service needs of the city.
   (B)   State-of-the-art review. The franchise agreement shall include
provisions to ensure cable service and cable system compatibility with changes
in law, technology, and programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art
system throughout the franchise term.
   (C)   The system. Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling
unit and multiple-family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance
with line extension policies set forth in this chapter. Service shall be
provided to subscribers in accordance with the schedules and line extension.
Unless specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to commercial
buildings on a consistent basis with the residential line extension policies.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.17 DROPS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least one cable drop,
and provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public buildings in
accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter, or as otherwise
specified in the applicable franchise agreement. Schools shall also receive one
cable drop and basic cable service at no charge. Following the city's
designation of additional buildings(s) to receive cable service, and upon the
city's request, a grantee shall complete construction of the drop and outlet
within 30 days.
   (B)   All such cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
   (C)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 150 feet,
the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor and
materials.
   (D)   Every grantee that offers two-way interactive broadband services to
subscribers within the city shall provide and install at no cost for the term
of the franchise agreement cable modems at every school and to all public
libraries, within the franchise area that are passed by the portions of the
grantee's cable system that are capable of supporting such two-way services.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.18 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   The city shall have the right to install and maintain city equipment, at the
actual cost for the space, not including cost for existing space. Cost will be
limited to any incremental cost for any wire or fixtures. This applies to the
excess space upon the poles and within the underground pipes and conduits of a
grantee, any wires and fixtures desired by the city to the extent that such
installation and maintenance does not interfere or compete with existing
operations of a grantee. City will relinquish its use of such poles and
conduits upon 90 days notice from a grantee that city's use interferes with
company's actual or anticipated use of the same.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.19 UPGRADE OF SYSTEM.
   Every grantee shall upgrade its system (herein referred to as the system
upgrade), if required, as set forth in its respective franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.20 NON-DISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO CABLE SYSTEM.
   Grantee may be required to allow non-discriminatory access to its cable
system if such shall be required by federal law. Prior to the enactment of any
such requirement, a grantee shall be provided with reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard, including the right to present evidence with respect
to the need for such a requirement. Grantee reserves, and has not waived, any
right it may have, or may later be determined to have, to challenge the city's
implementation of an open access requirement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.21 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK, AND PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL
("PEG") ACCESS.
   (A)   Every grantee shall, to the extent required by federal statutes
provide institutional to the extent that a grantee is obligated to provide such
support pursuant to its franchise agreement. Such may be supported pursuant to
a separate contract arrangement if so agreed upon in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth capacity,
service, and funding for separate public, educational, and government (PEG)
access channels, as specified in its franchise agreement. All such PEG access
channels shall be available to all subscribers as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   Oversight and administration of the PEG access channels shall be set
forth in the franchise agreement. The city may designate a Community Access
Corporation or similar entity to administer one or more of the access channels.
   (D)   Cost associated with construction and operation of the I-Net shall not
be a considered a franchise fee unless specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
TECHNICAL STANDARDS
§ 117.22 GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   This chapter incorporates technical standards and establishes customer
service practices with which a grantee must comply. In addition, a grantee
shall comply with any additional or stricter requirements established by FCC
regulations, or other federal regulation that may be adopted or amended from
time to time.
   (B)   A grantee shall maintain such equipment and keep such records as are
required to enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee is in
compliance with all standards required by these regulations and other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.23 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the city. The city shall
have the right, upon reasonable notice, to inspect and copy or transcribe at
any time during normal business hours, all books, records, maps, plans,
financial records, service complaint logs, performance test results and other
like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by grantee or under its
control concerning the operations, finances, affairs, transactions or property
of grantee when necessary to ascertain the grantee's compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement. Access to the aforementioned records shall
not be denied by the grantee on the basis that said records contain proprietary
information. Access to proprietary information shall be allowed at a site of
the grantee's choosing and shall be held in confidence by the city.
   (B)   If any of such maps or records are not kept in the city, or upon
reasonable notice made available in the city, and if the city shall determine
that an examination of such records is necessary or appropriate, all reasonable
expenses necessarily incurred in making such examination shall be paid by
grantee.
   (C)   Reports required. The grantee shall file with the city, upon
reasonable request:
      (1)   Regulatory communications.  All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) including, but not limited toannual proof of
performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports, and
all petitions, applications and communications of all types submitted by
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency, having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of grantee's system.
      (2)   Facilities report. An annual report setting forth the physical
miles of plant construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal
year will be made available at the local office of the grantee for review by
the city.
      (3)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports. Such reports shall be sent to
the city 30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly
thereafter until construction is completed as specified in this chapter or the
franchise agreement.
      (4)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the city.
      (5)   Tests required by city. Tests required by city as specified in this
chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification.
      (6)   Grantee rules.  The grantee's schedule of charges, regular
subscriber service policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints,
delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures and any other terms
and conditions adopted as the grantee's policy in connection with its
subscribers shall be in accordance with applicable state and federal laws,
rules or regulations.
      (7)   Proof of bonds and insurance. Grantee shall submit to the city the
required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and insurance
certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in this
chapter.
      (8)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports
for the franchise area shall be submitted to the city, upon reasonable notice
and as required by the city:
         (a)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues
derived from the franchise, certified by the vice-president for finance or a
duly authorized officer or manager of the grantee.
         (b)   An annual list of officers and members of the council of
directors of grantee and of grantee's parent corporation, if applicable.
      (9)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the
city at the times and in the form prescribed, such additional reports with
respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as may be
reasonably necessary and appropriate to ascertain grantee's compliance with
this chapter or the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.24 TECHNICAL STANDARDS COMPLIANCE.
   The technical standards used in the operation of a system shall comply, at a
minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC relating to cable
systems pursuant to the FCC's rules and regulations found in Title 47, Sections
76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or modified from time to time, which
regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference. The results of any
tests required by the FCC, or a franchise agreement shall be made available to
the city within 30 days of written request.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.25 TEST AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Tests. Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a manner
so as to conform to FCC specifications. The city shall notify the grantee of
its desire to witness such tests for a period of 90 days beyond the date of
request. Grantee shall notify the city at least five business days prior to
conducting such tests. Representatives of the city may witness the tests and
written test reports shall be made available to the city upon request. If any
test locations fail to meet such specifications, the grantee shall be required
to indicate what corrective measures have been or will be taken. Grantee shall
have the site re-tested on a timely basis as needed.
   (B)   Complaints. Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when
there exists other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the city,
casts doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee's system, the city
shall have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and
report on the performance of its system. The city may require additional tests,
full or partial repeat tests, different test procedures, or tests involving a
specific subscriber's terminal. Reports on such tests shall be delivered to the
city no later than 30 days after the city formally requests the tests and shall
include the following information: the nature of the complaints which
precipitated the special tests; what system component was tested; the equipment
used, and procedures employed in said testing; the results of such tests; and
methods by which said complaints were resolved. Said tests and analyses shall
be supervised by an engineer or other trained technical specialist who shall
sign all records of the special tests and forward same to the city with a
report interpreting the results of the tests and recommending what actions
should be taken by the city. All such tests conducted by grantee shall be at
the expense of the grantee.
   (C)   Consultants. The city shall have the right to employ or contract with
an independent qualified consultants and attorneys if necessary or desirable,
to assist in the administration of this, or any other section of this chapter
or the franchise agreement. If test results differ by more than 10% from the
FCC technical standard, the grantee shall reimburse the city for its reasonable
costs associated with the testing.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.26 EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each grantee must provide emergency alert override capabilities in a manner
consistent with the FCC's emergency alert system (EAS) rules and consistent
with any state and/or regional emergency alert system plans adopted in response
to the FCC's EAS rules that are applicable to the franchise area.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.27 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   Each grantee shall provide programming from each of the broad programming
categories identified in its franchise agreement. All programming decisions
remain within the sole discretion of each grantee provided that each grantee
complies with federal law regarding notice to grantor and subscribers prior to
any channel additions, deletions, or realignments, and further subject to the
grantee's signal carriage obligations pursuant to 47 U.S.C. §§ 531-536, as may
be amended and subject to the city's rights pursuant to 47 U.S.C. § 545, as may
be amended. The grantee shall use its good faith efforts to ensure diversity of
programming.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.28 PARENTAL CONTROL.
   Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber upon request a lockout
device for blocking both video and audio portions of any channel(s) of
programming entering the subscriber's premises. Such device shall be provided
at a reasonable charge, except to the extent that federal law specifically
provides otherwise. The grantee may, however, require a reasonable security
deposit for the use of such a device. This section shall not apply to channels
that are on the basic or expanded basic tier of programming unless the
subscriber receives service via a programmable terminal device, such as a
converter.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.29 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   The franchise agreement shall provide terms for a periodic subscriber survey
to assess the cable service needs and interests of the community throughout the
term of the franchise as well as procedures for review and implementation of
changes identified through any such survey.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.30 INSTALLATIONS EXCEEDING STANDARD INSTALLATION.
   Service drops in excess of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home shall
be charged to the subscriber based upon time and material. The desire of the
subscriber as to the point of entry into the residence shall be observed
whenever possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as
possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber's property caused by said
installation. Such restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten days
after the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible
thereafter.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.31 SERVICE AREA AND LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its system to a
particular area of the city in providing service to an individual or groups of
residents on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition. Unless
the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee shall serve all areas
of the city equally with populations of at least 15 residential dwelling units
per cable mile as measured from a grantee's existing distribution system,
including areas annexed subsequent to the grant of the franchise. The franchise
agreement shall provide a schedule of the areas to be served, and the specific
build-out requirements of the grantee, and shall also describe the process for
extending service to areas that will meet minimum density requirements at some
future date. Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee
shall extend service to commercial areas at no additional costs where the costs
to do so does not exceed the same costs of providing service in a residential
area with a density of 15 homes per mile.
   (B)   During the initial construction phase of a new system, a grantee may
implement its system in stages pursuant to a schedule and line extension policy
established in its franchise agreement that serves all areas of the city
equally, provided that any deviation from the service and line extension
requirements of this chapter do not discriminate between different areas of the
city on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition. A grantee of
any such new franchise shall comply with all customer service obligations with
respect to customers whose premises are passed by portions of the grantee's
network which are fully activated, tested and available for service.
   (C)   Cost-sharing. In areas with less than 15 homes per proposed cable
mile, grantee shall offer a cost-sharing arrangement to residents. Grantee
shall bear its pro rata share of the current construction costs based upon the
actual number of homes per mile. The cost-sharing arrangement shall consist of
the following. On the request of a subscriber desiring service, grantee shall
prepare, at its cost, an engineering survey and cost analysis to determine the
cost of the plant extension required to provide service to the subscriber from
the closest usable point on the cable system. The cost of construction shall be
allocated based on the following formula. If a request for extension into a
residential area requires the construction of cable plant which does not pass
at least 15 homes per cable mile, a proportionate share of construction costs
shall be borne by grantee and by the subscribers. For example, if there are ten
dwelling units per mile, grantee's share will equal 10/15th of the construction
cost. The remaining cost will be shared equally by each subscriber in the area
to be constructed. The line extension formula shall also be applied to a
portion of a cable mile meeting proportionate density requirements. For
example, if there are seven dwelling units per one-half mile, the grantee shall
construct the plant. The cost sharing described above would be utilized if
there were less than the proportionate share of dwelling units per the portion
of a mile needed to reach the dwelling units. Should additional subscribers
request cable service, subscribers utilizing the cost-sharing plan for
extension shall be reimbursed pro-rata for their contribution or a proportional
share thereof. In such case, the pro-rata shares shall be recalculated and each
new subscriber shall pay the new pro-rata share, and all prior subscribers
shall receive refunds. In any event, at the end of 24 months from completion of
the project, the subscribers are no longer eligible for refunds, and the
amounts paid by subscribers will be credited to the plant account of the
grantee. The average cost of the line extension shall be recalculated annually
based upon the current costs of labor and material. Each person contributing
toward the direct cost of the line extension shall waive all ownership interest
in the line extension. All equipment and components of the line extension,
including, but not limited to, cable wire, electronics and pedestals shall at
all times remain the exclusive property of the grantee.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.32 CITY MONITORING.
   In addition to free cable service required by this chapter, grantee shall
provide one service feed to City Administration Offices (unless otherwise
specified by city) that shall receive without charge all basic and expanded
basic cable programming provided by grantee. Such service shall be provided in
such a manner that the city may monitor the programming and use of the cable
system for compliance with the franchise agreement and this chapter. The
services provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a secure office
location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.33 ACCESS TO INSIDE WIRING.
   Access to, and ownership of, inside wiring shall be in accordance with
Section 76.800 et seq. of the FCC rules and regulations as the same may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 117.34 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Prior to commencing any construction in the city, a grantee must
obtain all necessary permits and licenses required by federal, state and
generally applicable city laws, ordinances and rules, and pay all associated
non-discriminatory fees. Further, a grantee shall comply with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, and standards relating to the construction, operation
and maintenance of a cable system.
   (B)   Compliance with laws. The construction, installation, and maintenance
of the cable system shall be effectuated by grantee in a manner that is
consistent with the laws, ordinances and construction standards of the State of
North Carolina, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National
Electrical Safety Code, National Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent
applicable, as well as all other laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that
are generally applicable and promulgated pursuant to the city's lawful police
power. All open connections on splitters, couplers and other devices shall be
properly terminated.
   (C)   Minimum interference. All of grantee's construction, installation,
operation, repair and maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables and
other appurtenances, on public or private property, shall be conducted in such
a manner as to not unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners that may be affected. In the event such work is
not in accordance with applicable rules and regulations, the city may require
the removal, within such period of time after notice as is reasonable under the
circumstances, of grantee's lines, cables and appurtenances from the public
right-of-ways in question, at the sole expense of the grantee.
   (D)   Repair of property. Grantee shall promptly repair and restore any city
or private property which may be damaged as a result of the construction,
installation, operation, repair, maintenance or removal of the cable system.
Any such property damaged or destroyed shall be promptly repaired and restored
by grantee, at grantee's sole cost and expense to the reasonable satisfaction
of the city, to its condition prior to being damaged, or shall be replaced by
grantee with equivalent property. The city may inspect and approve the
condition of the public right-of-ways and cables, wires, attachments, and poles
after restoration. The liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond as
provided herein shall continue in full force and effect during the period of
any removal and until the grantee has fully complied with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the franchise agreement. In the event of a
failure by the grantee to complete any restoration work required by the city
within the time as may be established by the city and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city, the city may, following reasonable notice to the
grantee, cause such work to be done and the grantee shall reimburse the city
the cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of such cost,
or the city may at its option recover such costs through the performance bond
provided by grantee. The city shall be permitted to seek legal and equitable
relief to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Erection of poles. Grantee shall not erect any pole on or along any
public rights-of-way in an existing aerial utility system without the advance
written approval of the city. If additional poles in an existing aerial route
are required, grantee shall negotiate, as needed, with the owners thereof for
the installation of the needed poles. Grantee shall negotiate the lease of pole
space and facilities from the existing pole owners for all aerial construction,
under mutually acceptable terms and conditions.
   (F)   Reservation of street rights. Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the city from constructing storm or sanitary sewers,
grading, paving, repairing or altering any public right-of-ways, or laying
down, repairing or removing water mains, traffic signal control systems, city
fiber plant, or constructing or establishing any public utility, service or
other public work that the city may operate or undertake now or in the future.
All such work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in such manner as not to
obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of poles, wires,
conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of grantee. If city in its
reasonable judgment shall determine that grantee's facilities interfere with
the construction location or repair of any public right-of-way or public
improvement, then all such facilities of grantee shall be removed or replaced,
or temporarily disconnected, in such manner as shall be directed by the city so
that the same shall not interfere with the public works of the city. Such
removal or replacement shall be at the expense of grantee; provided, however,
that nothing in this chapter shall preclude grantee from seeking reimbursement
for removal or replacement costs from any public funds generally available to
right-of-way users for the reimbursement of such costs.
   (G)   Underground installation. In those areas within the city where cable
television, telephone, or electrical facilities are currently placed
underground, all cable system facilities shall remain or be placed underground.
In areas where either telephone or electric utility facilities are above ground
at the time of installation, grantee may install its cable system facilities
above ground, provided that at such time as both electric and telephone utility
facilities are placed underground, grantee shall likewise place its cable
system facilities underground without cost to the city. Nothing contained in
this section shall require a grantee to construct, operate and maintain
underground any ground-mounted appurtenances, except that grantee shall take
steps to minimize the number and visual impact of such facilities. If the
grantor reimburses any utility for such relocation, grantee shall be similarly
reimbursed. This section shall not prevent the city or any of its agencies or
joint agencies from requiring the installation or relocation of cable services
facilities underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or regulation or
requirement imposed in accordance with the exercise of the general police power
or regulatory function of such agency or joint agency.
   (H)   Conduit.
      (1)   The city shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to buried
or underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or cannot be
located through the North Carolina One-Call Service.
      (2)   Grantee shall provide the city detailed strand and trench maps in
both paper and a mutually agreed upon electronic format of all new underground
and buried cable facilities upon activation of such sections of the system, as
may be necessary to insure compliance with this chapter or a franchise
agreement. Should the grantee consider this information of a proprietary
nature, the maps may be viewed at the grantee's facility.
      (3)   Grantee shall provide a contact number for the city to call in
emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the city.
If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the precise location
of its facilities within 45 minutes of an emergency call from the city, the
city shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee's facilities.
   (I)   Clearing poles and cables. Grantee shall have the right to remove,
trim, cut and to keep clear of its poles, cables, underground conduits and
related equipment the trees, shrubs and woody plants in and along the public
right-of-ways, but, in the exercise of such right, grantee shall not cut such
trees, shrubs and woody plants to any greater extent that is reasonably
necessary for the construction, erection, installation, maintenance and use of
cable system equipment. Except in emergency situations, all tree, shrub and
woody plant pruning shall be carried out under the supervision of the City
Arborist and shall be governed in accordance with pruning guidelines of the
American National Standard Institute and National Electric Code. The grantee
shall compensate the city or any private owners of such trees, shrubs and woody
plants for any damage caused by grantee's negligent conduct.
   (J)   Moving facilities. Grantee, on the request of the city, or any person
holding a building permit issued by the city, or any permit issued by an
appropriate state agency, shall temporarily move its wires, cables, poles or
other cable system facilities to permit the moving of large objects, vehicles,
buildings or other structures. The expense of such temporary moves shall be
paid to grantee by the person requesting the same and grantee shall have the
authority to require such payment in advance. Grantee shall be given not less
than 30 days advance notice to arrange for such temporary moves.
   (K)   Work performed by others. To the extent applicable, all provisions of
this chapter shall apply to any subcontractors or others performing any work or
services pursuant to the provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a
grantee.
   (L)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injuring grantee's facilities while performing any work connected with grading,
re-grading or changing the line of any public right-of-ways or with the
construction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS
§ 117.35 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement imposes
upon the city additional regulatory responsibility and expense and in
consideration for permission to use the public right-of-ways of the city for
the construction, operation and maintenance, of a cable system within the city,
a grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the city a franchise fee in
an amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the maximum amount
allowed by applicable law. To the extent that applicable law changes the
maximum authorized franchise fee, the city reserves the right to change the
franchise fee as stated in the franchise agreement by adopting an ordinance
establishing the new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable notice to the
grantee for administration of the change. The city shall hold a public hearing
prior to adopting any change in the franchise fee.
   (B)   Payments due grantor under this section shall be computed quarterly,
for the preceding quarter. Each quarterly payment shall be due and payable no
later than 45 days after the end of the preceding quarter. Each payment shall
be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee showing the basis for the
computation and a franchise fee worksheet listing all of the sources of
revenues attributable to the operation of grantee's system in the city. All
such payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the grantee.
   (C)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment
be construed as a release of any claim grantor may have for further sums
payable under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement. All
amounts paid shall be subject to audit and re-computation by grantor or its
designee at any time during any calendar year (but not more than once per
calendar year) upon 20 calendar days notice, which shall include a request for
any documents sought to be reviewed. Audits shall be at the expense of the
grantee if the additional amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid. Any
additional amount due to the city as a result of the audit shall be paid within
60 days following written notice to the grantee by the city which notice shall
include a copy of the audit report. Grantor's right to audit and grantee's
obligation to retain records related to the franchise fee audit, shall expire
three years from the date on which the most recent franchise fee payment by the
grantee was due from the time of written notice.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, grantee shall pay as additional
compensation an interest charge, computed from such due date, at the annual
rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the city's primary
depository bank during the period that such unpaid amount is owed.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.36 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   Each grantee shall maintain a performance bond with the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, in an
amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee's franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.37 PENALTIES PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has violated any
material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, grantor shall
first notify the grantee of the material violation and demand correction within
a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 20 days in the case of the
failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor under a
franchise agreement, and 30 days in all other cases. If a grantee fails to
correct the violation within the time prescribed, or if a grantee is unable to
correct the violation and fails to commence corrective action within the time
prescribed and to diligently remedy such violation thereafter, the grantee
shall then be given written notice of not less than 20 days for public comment.
Said notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity the violation alleged to
have occurred.
   (B)   At the public hearing, the Council shall hear and consider all
relevant evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the
evidence. Any such hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and
fair opportunity to be heard by the Council.
   (C)   In the event the Council finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of such violation after notice
thereof from grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   (D)   In the event the Council finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Council may
impose liquidated damages to be collected from the performance bond, as set out
in the franchise agreement.
   (E)   If the Council elects to assess liquidated damages, then such election
shall constitute grantor's exclusive remedy for a period of 60 days.
Thereafter, if a grantee remains in non-compliance, the grantor may pursue any
other available remedy.
   (F)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of
the default of a grantee, the performance bond deposited pursuant to a
franchise agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until
all pending claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any
remaining amounts in the performance bond shall revert to the grantee.
   (G)   The rights reserved to grantor with respect to the security fund are
in addition to all other rights of grantor, whether reserved by a franchise
agreement, this chapter, or authorized by law, and no action, proceeding, or
exercise of a right with respect to such performance bond shall affect any
other right grantor may have.
   (H)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not, the
grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements. Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation under
§
117.39.
   (I)   Grantee acknowledges that non-compliance with the provisions of the
franchise agreement and the master ordinance will harm subscribers and the city
and the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain.
The city may therefore assess the following liquidated damages against grantee
for unexcused non-compliance with the requirements of the franchise agreement
and master ordinance. Grantee acknowledges that the liquidated damages set
forth below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and that this
provision is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty. All damages
provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated.
      (1)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend service
in accordance with the ordinance and the franchise agreement: $250/calendar day
for each day the violation continues;
      (2)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for access
channels: $250/calendar day for each day the violation continues;
      (3)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-Net
provisions of the ordinance/franchise agreement: $250 calendar day for each day
the violation continues;
      (4)   For repeated, willful or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $250/ calendar day for each
day the violation continues;
      (5)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250/calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
      (6)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $250/calendar
day for each day the violation continues;
      (7)   For violation of other material provisions of the ordinance and the
franchise agreement: up to $250/ day for each day the violation continues.
   (J)   For the purposes of calculating the amount of liquidated damages, time
periods shall be tolled for such time as grantee is found to be diligently
working to remedy such violation.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.38 BONDS, INDEMNIFICATION, AND INSURANCE.
   Each grantee shall maintain bonds and insurance with the city in amounts and
in a manner as set forth in the grantee's franchise agreement. Each grantee
also shall be required to indemnify the city in a manner as set forth in the
grantee's franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
REVOCATION
§ 117.39 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   Grantor reserves the right to revoke the franchise, and all rights and
privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
   (A)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (B)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
   (C)   Grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
   (D)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts, or
is adjudged bankrupt;
   (E)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
   (F)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body having
jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise and
after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.40 PROCEDURE FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Whenever grantor has reason to believe that there may be grounds for
revocation of a franchise, grantor shall first notify the grantee in writing of
its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist. Such notice shall
indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds for revocation that are
believed to exist so that the grantee may have a reasonable opportunity to cure
or otherwise address the same. If a grantee fails to adequately cure or address
the purported grounds for revocation within 30 days of such notice, then the
grantor may, upon 30 days written notice to the grantee, commence a public
administrative hearing to determine whether there exists any ground for
revocation.
   (B)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross examine witnesses, and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
   (C)   After the close of the hearing, grantor or the designated hearing
officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the proceedings,
stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the decision.
   (D)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days subsequent
to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise by the city
within which to file an appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction. During
the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
FORECLOSURE AND RECEIVERSHIP
§ 117.41 FORECLOSURE.
   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of a system, a
grantee shall notify grantor of such fact and such notification shall be
treated as a notification that a change in control of the grantee has taken
place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the consent to transfer or
change in ownership shall apply without regard to how such transfer or change
in ownership occurred.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.42 RECEIVERSHIP.
   (A)   Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a franchise,
grantor shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120 days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of a
grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action
or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated
prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or unless within 120 days after its
election or appointment, the receiver or trustee has fully complied with all
the provisions of grantee's franchise agreement and this chapter and remedied
all defaults thereunder; and
   (B)   Such receiver or trustee, within said 120 days, has executed an
agreement duly approved by a court having jurisdiction, whereby such receiver
or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this
chapter and the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
PURCHASE OF SYSTEM
§ 117.43 PURCHASE BY GRANTOR.
   Upon termination of franchise term or revocation of franchise the grantor
may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted by 47 U.S.C. § 547, upon
the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn, acquire, take over, and
hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in part, on the following
conditions:
   (A)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an equitable
value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the franchise
itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book value at
the time of revocation, or the system's initial cost less depreciation and
salvage.
   (B)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement and following a denial of
renewal of the franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be the fair market
value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value attributed to the
franchise itself.
   (C)   In the event grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commence operation of
the system, grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value of
the system.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.44 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, or dispose of,
in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or cable system
or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise agreement, without
the prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be unreasonably
denied or delayed and may be denied only upon a good faith finding by the
grantor that the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical, or financial
qualifications to consummate the transaction and operate the system so as to
perform its obligations under this chapter and the applicable franchise
agreement. This section shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in
the normal course of business. Consent from the grantor shall not be required
for a transfer in trust, mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation, in
whole or in part, to secure indebtedness, or for a transfer to a corporation,
partnership, or other entity controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with a grantee.
   (B)   (1)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment, or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of all or a majority of
a grantee's assets;
         (b)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership, or other equity interests in a grantee by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members, or other equity owners so as
to create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
         (c)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in a grantee; and
         (d)   A grantee's agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system.
      (2)   CONTROLLING INTEREST as used herein is not limited to major
stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised.
   (C)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest in or
control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the city shall have 120
days to act upon any request for approval of such sale or transfer that
contains or is accompanied by such information as is required in accordance
with FCC regulations and the requirements of this chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement, including information related to the legal, technical and
financial qualifications, and the proposed transferee's ability to operate the
system in accord with this chapter and the franchise agreement. Failure to
provide all information reasonably requested by the city as part of its review
may be grounds for a denial of the proposed transfer. If the city fails to
render a final decision on the request within 120 days after receipt by the
city of all required information, such request shall be deemed granted unless
the grantee and the city agree to an extension of the 120-day period.
   (D)    The consent or approval of the city to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the city in and to,
the public right-of-ways, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly
subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise
agreement.
   (E)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the city will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system. Any approval by the city of a
transfer shall be contingent upon the prospective new grantee becoming a
signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED
§ 117.45 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No grantee shall deny service, deny access, or otherwise discriminate
against subscribers, programmers, or general citizens on the basis of race,
color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or age. Every grantee shall
strictly adhere to the equal employment opportunity requirements of state and
federal law. Each grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable
federal, state, and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders
relating to non-discrimination.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.46 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   Grantees shall at all times comply with the federal subscriber privacy
requirements codified at 47 U.S.C. § 551.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 117.47 RATE REGULATION.
   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for all services offered over
the cable system, to the extent permitted by federal or state law. Grantee
shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions provided for herein, and
those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) at 47 C.F.R., Part 76.900,
Subpart N. The city shall follow the rules relating to cable rate regulation
promulgated by the FCC at 47 C.F.R., Part 76.900, Subpart N. To the extent
required by applicable federal or state law, grantee shall establish rates that
are nondiscriminatory within the same general class of subscribers and which
must be applied fairly and uniformly to all subscribers in the franchise area
for all services. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from
offering:
   (A)   Discounts to commercial and multiple family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
   (B)   Promotional discounts;
   (C)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple services;
   (D)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents; or
   (E)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.48 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, grantor may
permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable system for an
extended period of time not to exceed three months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A grantee shall continue to operate the system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement
and to provide cable service and any and all other services which grantee had
been providing.
   (B)   The grantor shall have the right to compel continued operation of the
cable system whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver or by the grantor,
and to ensure that such operation is consistent with public interest as
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. The grantee may not remove
equipment or documents necessary for continued operation of the system.
   (C)   At all reasonable times, grantee shall permit examination by the city
of the system, together with any appurtenant property of grantee situated
withinor without the city when necessary to ascertain the grantee's compliance
with this chapter, the franchise agreement, and all applicable laws.
   (D)   The city shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to grantee's operations in
the city, and the grantee shall not oppose such intervention by the city.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall have
no recourse whatsoever against the city or its officials, councils,
commissions, agents, or employees for any loss, cost, expense, or damage
arising out of any provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, or of their enforcement.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.49 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY.
   Grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement by reason of any failure
of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.50 GOVERNING LAW AND CHOICE OF FORUM.
   Any dispute arising with respect to this chapter or a franchise agreement
granted pursuant to it shall be subject to review by the state and federal
courts having primary jurisdiction in the city.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.51 SEVERABILITY.
   If any material portion of this chapter, or a franchise agreement adopted
pursuant to it, is held by an authority of competent jurisdiction, to be
invalid or unlawful as conflicting with applicable laws now or hereafter in
effect, or is held by a court or competent governmental authority to be
modified in any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such
applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct, and
independent part of this chapter or franchise agreement, and, to the extent
possible, such holding shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all
other provisions thereof.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.52 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   All public notices required to be published by grantor under this chapter or
any franchise agreement shall be published in a manner consistent with the
public notice laws of the State of North Carolina.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.53 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES AND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design and
channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application for
a franchise submitted to the city. At a minimum, the grantee shall construct a
system with equivalent technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax [HFC] 750
MHz cable system. The grantee is permitted to modify its design and
implementation plan, pursuant to the conditions provided herein, to accommodate
technological innovations and refinements that enhance system reliability and
capacity.
   (B)   The initial construction required under initial franchise agreement
shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein. If the
grantee shows that, notwithstanding its due diligence, that it has been unable
to extend service to a specified area because the acts or omissions of a third
party (excluding the grantee's subcontractors or agents) or other factors have
caused a delay in construction beyond that reasonably expected during the
course of construction, and the grantee proposes a reasonable alternative
deadline for extension of service to that area, the city shall grant reasonable
extensions of time to complete construction.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
§ 117.54 CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Grantee shall at all times comply with the more stringent of the customer
service and consumer protection provisions of the city's Master Cable Services
Regulatory Ordinance, the franchise agreement or the FCC.
   (A)   Grantee will at all times comply with the city's customer service
standards in addition to compliance with the FCC standards (Title 47 CFR, Part
76 (Cable Television Service), Subpart H (General Operating Requirements) as
amended.
   (B)   The city's customer service standards are:
      (1)   The customer service standards as set forth below are the standards
set for all affected cable operators. This provision is the city's notice of
its intent to enforce the standards.
      (2)   Effective with adoption of this chapter, a cable operator shall be
subject to the following customer service standards:
         (a)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability.
            1.   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free or collect
call telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours
a day, 7 days a week.
               a.   Trained company representatives will be available to
respond to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
               b.    After normal operating conditions, the access line may be
answered by a service or an automated response system, including an answering
machine. Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by
a trained company representative on the next business day.
            2.   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
            3.   The operator is required to have equipment or perform surveys
to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above.
            4.   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than 3% of the time.
            5.   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be
open at least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
         (b)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four standards will be met no less than 95%
of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
            1.   Standard installations will be performed within seven business
days after an order has been placed.
            2.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the operator, the
cable operator will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no
event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The cable
operator must begin actions to correct other service problems the next business
day after notification of the service problem.
            3.   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours (The operator may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
operating hours).
            4.   An operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer
after the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled
appointment.
            5.   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time that is convenient for the customer.
         (c)   Complaint log. The cable operator shall establish a complaint
log. Said log will be provided to the city, upon reasonable request for the
purpose of ascertaining compliance with this chapter or franchise agreement.
The complaint log shall be available for review for the current and past two
years and be in a format convenient to the grantee. The log shall have
sufficient information to indicate the date of the complaint, nature of the
complaint and the grantee's resolution of the complaint.
         (d)   Communications between cable operators and cable subscribers.
            1.   Notifications to subscribers.
               a.   The cable operator shall provide written information on
each of the followingareas at the time of installation of service, at least
annually to all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
                  (i)   Products and services offered;
                  (ii)   Prices and options for programming services and
conditions of subscription to programming and other services;
                  (iii)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
                  (iv)   Instruction on how to use the cable service;
                  (v)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system;
and
                  (vi)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the
address and telephone number of the local franchise authority's cable office.
               b.   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming service or channel positions as soon as possible through
announcements on the cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to
subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of such changes if the change is
within the control of the cable operator. In addition, the cable operator shall
notify subscribes 30 days in advance of any significant changes in the other
information required by the preceding paragraph.
            2.   Billing.
               a.   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must
be fully itemized, with itemizations, including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
               b.   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must
respond to a written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
            3.   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later
than either:
               a.   The customer's next billing cycle following resolution of
the request of 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
               b.   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator
if service is terminated.
            4.   Credits. In the case of an outage, multiple or single, in
excess of 24-hours, the grantee shall make every effort to credit the
subscriber's account based on the period of outage, reasons for outage and
general good business practices. Credits for service will be issued no later
than the customer's next billing cycle following the determination that a
credit is warranted.
            5.   Late payment for cable service.
               a.   If grantee assesses a processing fee for late payments,
each bill shall specify on its face in a fashion emphasizing same (such as bold
face type, underlined type or a larger font) a message indicating late fee
charges.
               b.   No processing fees for late payment, however denominated,
shall be added to a subscriber's bill less than 15 calendar days after the date
printed on mailing of the bill to the subscriber, and shall not exceed the
amount permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. 29-04, passed 9-9-04)
CHAPTER 118: LOCAL ABC LICENSES  AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
118.01   Local privilege license taxes
   
118.02   License year and non-transferability
   
118.03   Consideration of applications for city-issued ABC permits
   
118.04   Sunday morning sales
   
118.05   Zoo City Social District
§ 118.01 LOCAL PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES.
   (A)   Retail license and tax. A person holding any of the following retail
ABC permits for an establishment located within the corporate limits of the
City of Asheboro shall obtain from the city clerk a city license for that
activity. The annual tax for each license is as stated below.
ABC Permit               Tax for Corresponding License
On-premises malt beverage            $15.00
Off-premises malt beverage            5.00
On-premises unfortified wine,
on-premises fortified wine, or both         15.00
Off-premises unfortified wine,
off-premises fortified wine, or both         10.00
   (B)   Tax on additional license. The tax stated in division (A) of this
section is the tax for the first license issued to a person. The tax for each
additional license of the same type issued to that person for the same year is
110% of the base license tax, that increase to apply progressively for each
additional license.
   (C)   Tax on malt beverage and/or wine wholesalers. City malt beverage and
wine wholesaler licenses are required for businesses located within the
corporate limits of the city. No such license is required for a business
located outside the city, regardless of whether that business sells or delivers
malt beverages or wine inside the city. The annual tax for a city malt beverage
wholesaler and/or city wine wholesaler is $37.50.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15; Am. Ord. 04 ORD 2-17, passed 2-9-17)
§ 118.02 LICENSE YEAR AND NON-TRANSFERABILITY.
   The license year for local ABC licenses issued by the City of Asheboro is
May 1 to April 30. Once issued, a license may not be transferred from one
person to another or from one location to another; a new license must be
purchased.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 118.03 CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR CITY-ISSUED ABC PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a city-issued alcoholic beverage privilege license
shall be submitted to the City Clerk on forms approved by the City Manager.
Once properly submitted to the City Clerk, the Clerk shall forward the
application materials to the City Manager and the Manager’s designee(s) for
further evaluation. The evaluation process shall include, at a minimum, a
review of the applicant’s criminal history record by the police department and
an evaluation by the community development division of the compliance of the
applicant’s proposed business location with the applicable zoning, building,
and fire prevention codes. These units of the city government shall report the
results of their reviews of the application to the City Manager within a
reasonable period of time not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   If none of the above-listed units of the city government recommends
denial of the requested license, and the City Manager indicates to the Clerk
that no credible material evidence has been submitted to the Manager’s office
as grounds for considering a denial of the application, the City Clerk shall
issue the license upon payment of the prescribed annual license fee.
   (C)   If any unit of the city government recommends denial of an
application, the City Manager shall make the final staff level determination
after reviewing the evaluations submitted by the police department and the
community development division along with any other relevant information
received by the Manager. If the City Manager determines that there is an
absence of credible evidence to support denial or non-renewal of an
application, he or she shall issue his or her determination and direct that the
license be issued. Alternatively, if the City Manager determines that a
sufficient lawful basis exists to consider denial or non-renewal of an
application, the Manager shall refer the application to the City Council for
its consideration at the next regular meeting of the Council.
   (D)   Before deliberating about the approval or denial of the issuance of a
local ABC permit, the Council shall give the applicant an opportunity to appear
and present evidence at a quasi-judicial hearing conducted before the Council.
Any hearing held under the provisions of this chapter shall be upon at least
ten days’ notice to the applicant. All persons who present evidence at such a
hearing shall be sworn and parties shall have the right to cross-examine
witnesses. The Council shall make written findings of fact based upon the
evidence presented at the hearing. If the Council finds that one or more of the
requested license(s) should be issued, the Council will direct the City Manager
to issue the specified license(s). If the Council finds that the application
for one or more local ABC licenses should be denied, the Council will enter its
decision as part of the written findings of fact. The applicant may appeal the
denial of a license to the Randolph County Superior Court by an action in the
nature of certiorari so long as, and on the condition that, notice of appeal is
given within 30 days of the receipt of written findings stating the basis of
the Council’s denial of the requested permit.
   (E)   The City Manager shall establish any administrative policies and
application forms necessary to implement this section.
(Ord. 19 ORD 6-15, passed 6-29-15)
§ 118.04 SUNDAY MORNING SALES.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed
beverages is permitted to begin at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday pursuant to the
licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. § 18B-1001.
(Ord. 07 ORD 4-18, passed 4-5-18)
§ 118.05 ZOO CITY SOCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Zoo City Social District is hereby created and is designated as
shown on a map dated March 14, 2024, and titled "Boundaries of the Zoo City
Social District." The referenced map is available in the office of the City
Clerk. Signage and markings shall be posted in public rights-of-way in order to
clearly delineate the boundaries of the social district established herein.
   (B)   Within this section, the following words and terms shall be defined as
stated in this subsection.
      (1)   SOCIAL DISTRICT means and refers to a defined area in which a
person may consume alcoholic beverages sold by a permittee. A social district
may include both indoor and outdoor areas of businesses within or contiguous to
the defined area of the social district during the days and hours set by this
section of the Code of Asheboro. A social district may include privately owned
property, including permittees and non-permittee businesses, and multi-tenant
establishments, as defined in G.S. § 18B-1001.5, and public streets,
crosswalks, or parking areas whether or not the streets or parking areas are
closed to vehicle traffic.
      (2)   PERMITTEE means and refers to a person holding any of the following
ABC permits issued by the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission:
         (a)   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(1);
         (b)   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(3);
         (c)   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001(5);
         (d)   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(10);
         (e)   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(16); and
         (f)   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1100(5).
      (3)   NON-PERMITTEE BUSINESS means and refers to a business that is
located in a social district and does not hold any ABC permit.
      (4)   PERSON means and refers to an individual, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company, other organization or
group, or other combination of individuals acting as a unit.
      (5)   PREMISES means and refers to a fixed permanent establishment,
including all areas inside  or outside the permitted establishment, where the
permittee has control through a lease, deed, or other legal process.
   (C)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-205.4, the City Council has designated the Zoo
City Social District for use in accordance with G.S. § 18B-300.1.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section, and any person who aids, abets,
encourages, assists in, or contributes to a violation of this section shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4, with a
maximum fine of no more than $500.00.
   (E)   The days and hours during which alcoholic beverages may be consumed in
the Zoo City Social District are Thursday, Friday, and Saturday between the
hours of 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. on each of the listed days. At all other
times, the provisions and terms contained in this section are not in effect,
and all provisions of state and local laws concerning the possession and
consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be in full force and effect.
   (F)   Any alcoholic beverage purchased for consumption in the Zoo City
Social District shall only be consumed in the Zoo City Social District, and,
unless the person is reentering the licensed premises where the alcoholic
beverage was purchased, the beverage shall be disposed of before the person in
possession of the alcoholic beverage exits the Zoo City Social District.
   (G)   A permittee located in or contiguous to the Zoo City Social District
may sell open containers of alcoholic beverages and allow customers to exit the
permittee's licensed premises to the social district in accordance with the
following requirements.
      (1)   The permittee shall only sell and serve alcoholic beverages on its
licensed premises.
      (2)   The permittee shall only sell an open container of an alcoholic
beverage for consumption in the social district and off the premises of the
permittee in a container that meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The container clearly identifies the permittee from which the
alcoholic beverage was purchased;
         (b)   The container clearly displays a logo or some other mark that is
unique to the Zoo City Social District;
         (c)   The container is not comprised of glass;
         (d)   The container displays, in no less than 12-point font, the
statement, "Drink Responsibly – Be 21;" and
         (e)   The container shall not hold more than sixteen (16) fluid
ounces.
      (3)   The permittee shall not allow a person to enter or reenter its
licensed premises with an alcoholic beverage not sold by the permittee.
   (H)   The possession and consumption of an open container of an alcoholic
beverage in the Zoo City Social District is subject to all of the following
requirements.
      (1)   Only open containers of alcoholic beverages purchased from a
permittee located in or contiguous to the Zoo City Social District may be
possessed and consumed.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be in containers meeting the
requirements set forth in subsection (G)(2), except for open containers sold by
a permittee for consumption on the permittee's premises.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be possessed and consumed during the
days and hours set forth in division (E).
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as authorizing the sale
and delivery of alcoholic beverage drinks in excess of the limitation set forth
in G.S. § 18B-1010.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for a person to enter the premises of a non-
permittee business in the social district with an open container of an
alcoholic beverage unless the non-permittee business is displaying uniform
signage indicating that the non-permittee business is included in the social
district and allows alcoholic beverages on its premises when the social
district is active. All non-permittee businesses that are part of a social
district and that allow customers to bring alcoholic beverages onto their
premises shall clearly post signage on any exits that do not open to the social
district indicating that alcoholic beverages may not be taken past that point.
      (6)   No non-permittee business is required to either participate in the
social district or to allow customers to bring alcoholic beverages onto the
premises.
      (7)   A person shall dispose of any open container of an alcoholic
beverage in the person's possession prior to exiting the Zoo City Social
District unless the person is reentering the licensed premises where the
alcoholic beverage was purchased.
   (I)   The City Manager, or the Manager's designee, shall cause the posting
of signage in conspicuous locations to indicate the area included in the Zoo
City Social District, the days and hours during which authorized open
containers of alcoholic beverages may be possessed and consumed in the social
district, the telephone numbers for the city Police Department and the ALE
Division with jurisdiction over the area comprising the social district, and a
clear statement that an alcoholic beverage purchased from a permittee for
consumption in the social district shall (i) only be consumed in the social
district and (ii) be disposed of before the person in possession of the
alcoholic beverage exits the social district.
   (J)   The City Manager, or the Manager's designee, shall establish a
management and maintenance plan for the Zoo City Social District. The social
district shall be maintained in a manner that protects the health and safety of
the general public. The management and maintenance plan shall be posted on the
city's website along with a rendering of the boundaries of the Zoo City Social
District and the days and hours during which open containers of alcoholic
beverages may be possessed. Without limitation, the management and maintenance
plan for the Zoo City Social District shall include the development of uniform
signage, along with devising an operational plan for distributing the approved
signage, indicating that a non-permittee business is included in the social
district and allows alcoholic beverages on its premises when the social
district is active. In developing and implementing the management and
maintenance plan, the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, is
authorized to utilize the services of Downtown Asheboro Inc, a North Carolina
non-profit corporation, to evaluate potential modifications of the management
and maintenance plan. Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, the
final approval authority for the Zoo City Social District Management and
Maintenance Plan shall be exercised by the City Council.
   (K)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, when a special
event is held within the boundaries of the Zoo City Social District and the
special event has been specifically authorized by the City Council, the terms
found within the Council's legislative enactment authorizing the special event
shall supersede the provisions of this section. In addition to events in the
Bicentennial Park and Sunset Theater facilities governed by the City of
Asheboro Cultural and Recreation Services Policy Manual, the City Council
authorization for a special event may take the form of a public street,
sidewalk, alley, and/or parking lot closure.
   (L)   If any subsection, clause, phrase, sentence, or portion of this
section of the Code of Asheboro is held void, invalid, unconstitutional, or
unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, the portion of this
section held to be invalid shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision; and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of the section.
(Ord. 10 ORD 5-22, passed 5-5-22; Am. Ord. 1 ORD 1-23, passed 1-5- 23; Am. Ord.
7 ORD 3-24, passed 3-7-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Regulation of use of firearms or any device designed or used to
project pellets, arrows, or other projectiles
   
130.02   Prohibition of carrying concealed weapons in city buildings and parks
   
130.03   Consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages in certain locations
   
130.04   Loitering for the purpose of controlled substances violations
   
130.05   Aggressive solicitation prohibited
   
130.06   Public urination and defecation prohibited
   
130.07   All-terrain vehicles prohibited on city-owned lands
   
130.08   Curfew established for parks
   
130.09   Regulation of skateboards and inline skates
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 REGULATION OF USE OF FIREARMS OR ANY DEVICE DESIGNED OR USED TO
PROJECT PELLETS, ARROWS, OR OTHER PROJECTILES.
   (A)   Subject to the exceptions listed in division (B), it is unlawful for a
person to discharge any pistol, rifle, gun, or other type of firearm within the
city or within the boundary lines of any city-owned property that is located
beyond the city limits.
   (B)   The prohibition listed above in division (A) does not apply to the
following situations:
      (1)   The discharge of a firearm at a shooting gallery or range that is
operating in compliance with the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   The discharge of a firearm by a sworn law enforcement officer.
      (3)   The discharge of a firearm by a person in self-defense, in the
lawful defense of others, in the lawful defense of property, pursuant to lawful
directions of law enforcement officers, and/or pursuant to a duty established
by federal, state, or local statute or ordinance, specifically including by way
of illustration and not limitation the discharge of a firearm by a duly
appointed animal control officer or his or her designee.
      (4)   Upon receipt of written permission from the Chief of Police or his
or her designee, blank cartridges may be discharged during historical
reenactments, military or similar displays, or during theatrical, athletic, or
like performances. Such written permission from the Chief of Police or his or
her designee cannot be granted unless and until the applicant establishes that
the proposed activity for which the use of blank cartridges is requested will
occur with the consent of the property owner and in compliance with the city's
noise ordinance and zoning ordinance.
      (5)   A person 21 years of age or older may use an exploding device or
similar scare device for the purpose of dispersing birds, fowl, or other
wildlife on the condition that the device does not have the capacity to
physically harm such bird, fowl, or other wildlife and on the additional
condition that the use of the device conforms with all federal and state laws
as well as the regulations adopted by the North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission. The person utilizing such a device shall exercise due care in the
use of the device so as not to cause injury to persons or damage to another
person's property. Prior to the utilization of such a device, the person using
the device shall notify his or her adjacent property owners (or lessees) and
the Asheboro Police Department of the intended use of such a device, including
the location, the date, and the approximate time of day of such use. Such a
device shall not be used between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any
day of the week.
      (6)   The use of a firearm for hunting ducks and dark geese (includes
Canada geese and white-fronted geese) is permitted at Lake Reese when such
hunting is undertaken in compliance with
Chapter 91 of the Code of Asheboro.
   (C)   Subject to the exceptions listed in division (D), it is unlawful for a
person to shoot or project any arrow, shot, pellet, stone, rock, or other hard
substance by means of a bow, air rifle, pellet gun, paintball gun, popgun,
slingshot, bean shooter, or other similar type of device or contrivance within
the city or within the boundary lines of any city-owned property that is
located beyond the city limits.
   (D)   The prohibition listed above in division (C) is subject to the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Archery is permitted at an archery range that is operating in
compliance with the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   The discharge of air rifles, pellet guns, paintball guns, and
similar devices is permitted at shooting galleries or ranges that are operating
in compliance with the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   Activities undertaken by a person in self-defense, in the lawful
defense of others, in the lawful defense of property, pursuant to lawful
directions of law enforcement officers, and/or pursuant to a duty established
by federal, state, or local statute or ordinance, specifically including by way
of illustration and not limitation the use of a device that would otherwise
fall within the scope of division (C) by a duly appointed animal control
officer or his or her designee.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 14-3) (Ord., passed 9-29-49; Am. Ord., passed 8-6-59; Am. Ord. 11
ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord. 47 ORD 10-10, passed 10-7-10; Am. Ord. 19 ORD
8-14, passed 8-7-14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITION OF CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS IN CITY BUILDINGS AND PARKS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The City Manager is authorized and
instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within
each park and each building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed, or controlled by the city, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed
handgun is prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the
exterior of each entrance by which the general public can access the building.
The City Manager shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of signs to be placed on or within appurtenant premises
and parks.
(Ord. 17-95, passed 11-9-95; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN
LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine. It shall be
unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor vehicle to consume a
malt beverage or unfortified wine on any public street, sidewalk, or alley in
the city; or on any other property owned, occupied, or controlled by the city.
   (B)   Possession of open containers of malt beverages and unfortified wine.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor vehicle
to possess open container(s) of malt beverages and unfortified wines on any
public street, sidewalk, or alley in the city; or on any other property owned,
occupied, or controlled by the city. For the purposes of this section, an OPEN
CONTAINER means a container whose seal has been broken or a container other
than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
   (C)   Possession of malt beverages and unfortified wines on public streets,
alleys, or parking lots which are temporarily closed to regular traffic for
special events. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any malt
beverage or unfortified wine on any public street, alley, or parking lot which
has been temporarily closed to regular traffic for a special event.
   (D)   Possession and consumption of fortified wine, spirituous liquor, and
mixed beverages. The possession or consumption of fortified wine, spirituous
liquor, or mixed beverages is hereby prohibited on property owned or leased by
the city.
   (E)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the prohibitions prescribed by the above-
listed divisions of this section, the following acts shall not be deemed to be
unlawful.
      (1)   The possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages by either a
sworn law enforcement officer acting in the performance of his or her official
duties or a person acting under the immediate and direct supervision of a sworn
law enforcement officer discharging his or her official duties.
      (2)   The possession or consumption of malt beverages at McCrary Park as
part of collegiate or professional baseball events hosted by legal entities
with whom the City of Asheboro has entered into a lease agreement for the use
of McCrary Park; provided, however, any such malt beverages found within
McCrary Park must have been obtained in accordance with a sale/distribution
plan developed and implemented by the hosting of legal entity in compliance
with all applicable laws and administrative regulations.
      (3)   The possession or consumption of unfortified wine and malt
beverages on the premises of the Sunset Theatre and Bicentennial Park
facilities, including without limitation the Rotary Pavilion. The possession or
consumption of unfortified wine and malt beverages on these premises will be
lawful only if such possession or consumption is conducted in strict compliance
with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations, specifically including
without limitation the regulations adopted by the city for these facilities
that are part of the municipal cultural and recreation services system,
inclusive of any and all sale/distribution plans specified by the City of
Asheboro Cultural and Recreation Services Policy Manual.
      (4)   The possession of unfortified wine on the premises of the Downtown
Farmers’ Market facility. The possession of unfortified wine on these premises
will be lawful only if such possession occurs as part of the retail sale by an
approved Downtown Farmers’ Market vendor of unfortified wine for off-premise
consumption. The retail sale of unfortified wine shall be conducted in strict
compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances, and regulations, specifically
including without limitation the regulations prescribed for the Downtown
Farmers’ Market in the City of Asheboro Cultural and Recreation Services Policy
Manual.
      (5)   The possession or consumption of unfortified wine and malt
beverages on the premises leased to the nonprofit North Carolina Aviation
Museum and Hall of Fame, Incorporated (these premises are shown as Hangar G and
Hangar L on Schedule C of the Asheboro Regional Airport) during events
conducted by the nonprofit corporation. The sale or service of wine and malt
beverages must be conducted in strict compliance with all applicable laws,
ordinances, and regulations, specifically including without limitation any laws
and regulations pertaining to either alcoholic beverage control or the
operation of the airport by the Asheboro Airport Authority.
      (6)   The possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages within a
designated outdoor dining location on a public street, sidewalk, alley, or
parking lot temporarily closed to regular traffic for a special event within
the city zoning ordinance's Central Business Planning Area (Tier 1). This
exception for outdoor dining within the Central Business Planning Area is
applicable so long as, and only so long as, the following conditions are
satisfied:
         (a)   Alcoholic beverage service must occur within, and not beyond,
the readily observable boundaries of a designated outdoor dining area located
within the public street, sidewalk, alley, and parking lot closure zone
approved by the City Council in response to a request from the non-profit
corporation organizing the special event to be held in the Central Business
Planning Area (Tier 1);
         (b)   The business providing service within the designated outdoor
dining area must provide service in strict compliance with the applicable
alcoholic beverage control laws, specifically including without limitation the
applicable North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission regulations;
         (c)   The business providing service within the designated outdoor
dining area must remain in strict compliance with all applicable health and
safety laws and regulations, specifically including without limitation
gubernatorial executive orders, orders issued by the North Carolina Department
of Health and Human Services, and regulations enforced by the Randolph County
Public Health Department; and
         (d)   Any and all outdoor dining areas seeking the benefit of this
exception must be identified on a map included as part of a special downtown
outdoor dining event application packet submitted to the City Manager for
advance approval. The non-profit corporation organizing the proposed special
downtown outdoor dining event is responsible for submitting this application in
a timely manner. This special downtown outdoor dining event application packet
is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other required approvals such as
approval to use Bicentennial Park facilities that are subject to the City of
Asheboro Cultural and Recreation Services Policy Manual as well as the public
street, sidewalk, alley, and parking lot closure request that must be submitted
to the City Council in a timely manner. In order for the City Manager to
approve the special downtown outdoor dining event application packet, the
packet must contain documentation demonstrating that adequate safety and risk
management planning measures have been taken for the proposed event,
specifically including evidence on the above-referenced map of compliance with
the accessibility requirements in the Americans with Disabilities Act and the
provision of adequate travel lanes for the use of emergency responders within
the event area.
   (F)   Penalties. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
('69 Code, § 14-25) (Ord., passed 6-9-88; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 3-10-05; Am.
Ord. 46 ORD 8-08, passed 8-7-08; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord.
14 ORD 4-09, passed 4-9-09; Am. Ord. 07 ORD 2-10, passed 2-4-10; Am. Ord. 02
ORD 3-14, passed 3–6-14; Am. Ord. 10 ORD 4-19, passed 4-4-19; Am. Ord. 29 ORD
11-20, passed 11-5-20; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, "public place" means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility or the doorways and entrance ways to any building which
fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those places.
   (B)   No person shall remain or wander about in a public place and:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckon to, stop or, attempt to stop passers-by or
repeatedly attempt to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stop or attempt to stop motor vehicles; or
      (3)   Repeatedly interfere with the free passage of other persons for the
purpose of violating any subdivision of G.S. § 90-95.
(Ord., passed 9-14-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.05 AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section:
      (1)   AGGRESSIVE MANNER. Includes:
         (a)   Intentionally or recklessly making any physical contact with or
touching another person in the course of the solicitation without the person's
consent;
         (b)   Following the person being solicited, if that conduct is:
intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily
harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's
possession: or is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person
being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
         (c)   Continuing to solicit within five feet of the person being
solicited after the person has made a negative response, if continuing the
solicitation is: intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear
imminent bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the
person's possession; or, is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate
the person being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation;
         (d)   Intentionally or recklessly blocking the safe or free passage of
the person being solicited or requiring the person, or the driver of a vehicle,
to take evasive action to avoid physical contact with the person making the
solicitation. Acts authorized as an exercise of one's Constitutional right to
picket or legally protest, and acts authorized by a permit issued pursuant to
Chapter 97 of the Code of Asheboro shall not constitute obstruction of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
         (e)   Intentionally or recklessly using obscene or abusive language or
gestures: intended to or likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent
bodily harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's
possession; or, words intended to or reasonably likely to intimidate the person
into responding affirmatively to the solicitation; or
         (f)   Approaching the person being solicited in a manner that: is
intended to or is likely to cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily
harm or the commission of a criminal act upon property in the person's
possession; or, is intended to or is reasonably likely to intimidate the person
being solicited into responding affirmatively to the solicitation.
      (2)   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE. A device, linked to a financial
institution's account records, which is able to carry out transactions,
including, but not limited to: account transfers, deposits, cash withdrawals,
balance inquiries, and mortgage and loan payments.
      (3)   AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE FACILITY. The area comprised of one or
more automatic teller machines, and any adjacent space which is made available
to banking customers after regular banking hours.
      (4)   PUBLIC AREA. An area to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access and includes, but is not limited to, alleys, bridges,
buildings, driveways, parking lots, parks, playgrounds, plazas, sidewalks, and
streets open to the general public, and the doorways and entrances to buildings
and dwellings, and the grounds enclosing them.
      (5)   SOLICIT. To request an immediate donation of money or other thing
of value from another person, regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended
use of the money or other thing of value. The solicitation may be, without
limitation, by the spoken, written, or printed word, or by other means of
communication.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money
or other things of value, or to solicit the sale of goods or services:
      (1)   In an aggressive manner in a public area;
      (2)   Within 15 feet of any entrance or exit of any bank or within 15
feet of any automated teller machine during the hours of operation of such bank
or automated teller machine without the consent of the owner or other person
legally in possession of such facilities. Provided, however, that when an
automated teller machine is located within an automated teller machine
facility, such distance shall be measured from the entrance or exit of the
automated teller machine facility; or
      (3)   On private property if the owner, tenant, or lawful occupant has
asked the person not to solicit on the property, or has posted a sign clearly
indicating that solicitations are not welcome on the property.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Construction and severability.
      (1)   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of
the section. If any sentence, clause, or phrase of this section is held invalid
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then such judgment
shall in no way affect or impair the validity of the remaining portions of this
section.
      (2)   This section is not intended to proscribe any demand for payment
for services rendered or goods delivered.
      (3)   This section is not intended to create a result through enforcement
that is absurd, impossible or unreasonable. The section should be held
inapplicable in any such cases where its application would be unconstitutional
under the Constitution of the State of North Carolina or the Constitution of
the United States of America.
(Ord., passed 8-10-91; Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 12-9-04; Am. Ord. 54 ORD 9-08,
passed 9-4-08; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21,
passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except in designated water closets or toilet facilities, it shall be
unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any public place, sidewalk,
street, alleyway or right-of-way, or in any public building, or on private
property. Having the permission of the owner or person in lawful possession of
the real property shall constitute an affirmative defense to the charge of
urinating or defecating on private property. Any person who violates this
section shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500.
   (B)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 53 ORD 9-08, passed 9-4-08; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord.
36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 130.07 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON CITY-OWNED LANDS.
   (A)   The act of operating any motorized all-terrain vehicle on city-owned
real property is hereby prohibited and declared to be unlawful.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, MOTORIZED ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE is a
two or more wheeled vehicle designed for recreational off-road use.
   (C)   This section is not applicable to employees and contractors of the
City of Asheboro, law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel,
emergency medical services personnel, and emergency management personnel acting
in the course and scope of their official duties.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 58 ORD 11-07, passed 11-8-07; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 130.08 CURFEW ESTABLISHED FOR PARKS.
   (A)   A curfew shall be in effect between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. in each of the following parks and recreation areas:
      (1)   Asheboro Memorial Park, including Nance Little League Field and
Thomas Tennis Center;
      (2)   North Asheboro City Park;
      (3)   Frazier Park;
      (4)   Westwood Park;
      (5)   Hammer Memorial Park;
      (6)   Mini-park at Cross and Brewer Streets;
      (7)   Athletic field at Brewer, Tucker, and Watkins Streets;
      (8)   Park Street Park located on South Park Street;
      (9)   Kiwanis Park off Meadowbrook Road;
      (10)   City ball fields on Farr Street;
      (11)   McCrary Ball Field;
      (12)   Pugh Little League Field on Country Club Drive;
      (13)   Bicentennial Park; and
      (14)   Asheboro Skate Park.
   (B)   No person shall be deemed guilty of violating the curfew if such a
person is present in one of the parks and recreation areas specified in
division (A) above within 30 minutes of the official conclusion of an event
conducted in the parks and recreation areas with the approval of the Asheboro
Parks and Recreation Department.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(‘69 Code, § 14-24) (Ord., passed 8-6-81; Am. Ord. 39-05, passed 9-8-05; Am.
Ord. 43-05, passed 10-6-05; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am. Ord. 36
ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 REGULATION OF SKATEBOARDS AND INLINE SKATES.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, it shall be unlawful for any person
riding on a skateboard or inline skates to ride any such device on the premises
of facilities or lands owned in fee simple or leased by the city.
   (B)   Skateboards and inline skates may be utilized within designated areas
of the Asheboro Skate Park in accordance with
Chapter 98 of the Code.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to authorize any activity
involving skateboards, roller skates, coasters, toy vehicles, or similar
devices that is prohibited by §
70.53.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 18 ORD 03-08, passed 3-6-08; Am. Ord. 11 ORD 3-09, passed 3-5-09; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4, with a maximum fine of no more than $500.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDINGS
         
151.   HOUSING CODE
         
152.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
         
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Fire limits
   
150.02   Restrictions within primary fire limits
   
150.03   Building Inspector; deputies and assistants
Standard Codes
   
150.10   Building and related codes; applicability
   
150.11   Right of city to enact deviations from state code
   
150.12   [Reserved]
   
150.13   [Reserved]
   
150.14   Technical codes
Administration
   
150.25   Permits; fees
   
150.26   Work on applicant's own property
   
150.27   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
150.28   Changes in work
   
150.29   Inspections of work in progress
   
150.30   Stop orders
   
150.31   Revocation of permits
   
150.32   Certificates of compliance
   
150.33   Periodic inspections
   
150.34   Records and reports
   
150.35   Appeals
Unsafe Buildings
   
150.45   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
150.46   Unsafe buildings condemned
   
150.47   Removing notice from condemned building
   
150.48   Action in event of failure to take corrective action
   
150.49   Order to take corrective action
   
150.50   Appeal; finality of order if not appealed
   
150.51   Failure to comply with order
   
150.52   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1126, the primary fire limits of the City of
Asheboro are hereby established and defined as follows:
   Beginning at a point in the center of the intersection of Salisbury Street
(North Carolina Highway 42) and North Fayetteville Street; thence south along
the center line of Fayetteville Street (United States Highway 220 Business) to
a point in the center of the intersection of South Fayetteville Street and
Academy Street; thence west along the center line of Academy Street to a point
in the center of the intersection of West Academy Street and South Church
Street; thence north along the center line of Church Street (North Carolina
Secondary Road 1707) to a point in the intersection of North Church Street and
West Salisbury Street; thence east along the center line of West Salisbury
Street to the point and place of beginning.
('69 Code, § 5-1) (Am. Ord. 23 ORD 11-16, passed 11-10-16; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-
21, passed 12-9-21)
Cross-reference:
   Burning trash within fire limits, see §
95.06
   Burning trash outside fire limits, see §
96.07
§ 150.02 RESTRICTIONS WITHIN PRIMARY FIRE LIMITS.
   Within the primary fire limits of the city, as established and defined by §
150.01, no frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall
hereafter be erected, altered, repaired, or moved (either into the limits or
from one place to another within the limits), except upon the permit of the
Building Inspector approved by the City Council and by the State Commissioner
of Insurance or his designee. The City Council may make additional regulations
for the prevention, extinguishment, or mitigation of fires within the primary
fire limits.
(G.S. § 160A-436)
§ 150.03 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DEPUTIES AND ASSISTANTS.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by state law or this Code, the
Building Inspector shall administer and enforce within the territorial
jurisdiction, specifically including without limitation the extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction, of the city all provisions of this chapter and of the
North Carolina State Building Code, and he shall perform the duties and keep
the records prescribed in Article 11 of Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of
North Carolina for local building and electrical inspectors.
   (B)   The City Council may, by resolution or otherwise, provide for the
appointment or designation of such deputy and assistant building inspectors as
may be considered desirable.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision found within this Chapter, when
undertaking inspections and enforcement actions in connection with unsafe
structures, the city’s Chief Building Inspector and any deputy or assistant
building inspector(s) are authorized to utilize the full scope of authority
found within the most recent enactments of Article 11 of Chapter 160D of the
General Statutes of North Carolina. This division is designed to provide city
building inspectors with the greatest scope of regulatory authority available
under North Carolina law to address unsafe structures and is not to be
interpreted or construed as a limitation on any other regulatory authority
otherwise delegated to a building inspector.
('69 Code, § 5-2) (Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21,
passed 12-9-21)
STANDARD CODES
§ 150.10 BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code shall be in full
force and effect within the territorial jurisdiction, specifically including
without limitation the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, of the city, and
it shall be unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any
provision thereof.
('69 Code, § 5-3) (Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.11 RIGHT OF CITY TO ENACT DEVIATIONS FROM STATE CODE.
   The City Council hereby reserves the right to adopt deviations from the
North Carolina State Building Code and to adopt building codes to replace all
or any part thereof, subject to approval by the State Building Code Council,
pursuant to authority contained in G.S. § 143-138, subsection (e).
('69 Code, § 5-4)
§ 150.12 [RESERVED].
§ 150.13 [RESERVED].
§ 150.14 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   The term technical codes as used herein shall mean the collective
provisions of the North Carolina: Administrative, Building (Accessibility),
Plumbing, Mechanical, Fuel Gas, Energy Conservation, Existing Buildings, and
Residential Codes as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and
Residential Code Council, and the National Electrical Code. The most recent
edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the North Carolina State
Building Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and
Residential Code Council, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein to the extent such code is applicable for safe and stable design,
methods of construction, minimum standards, and use of materials in buildings
or structures erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise constructed or
reconstructed after adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina State Building Code, Existing Buildings, as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
   (C)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Fuel Gas Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
   (D)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Energy Conservation Code, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
   (E)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Residential Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State
Building Code Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
   (F)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Plumbing Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
   (G)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Mechanical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein.
   (H)   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council and Residential Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein.
   (I)   The National Electrical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and Residential Code Council, including all subsequent
amendments, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
('69 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 2 ORD 2- 25, passed 1-9-25)    
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.25 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with:
         (a)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, movement
to another site, removal or demolition of any building or structure,
         (b)   The installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing
system,
         (c)   The installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any
heating or cooling equipment system, or
         (d)   The installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any
electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment, without first securing
from the Building Inspector any and all permits required by the State Building
Code and any other state laws or ordinances of this city applicable to the
work. A permit shall be in writing and shall contain a provision that the work
done shall comply with the State Building Code and all other applicable state
laws or ordinances of this city. No permits shall be issued unless the plans
and specifications are identified by the name and address of the author
thereof, and if the General Statutes of North Carolina require that plans for
certain types of work be prepared only by a registered architect or registered
engineer, no permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications bear
the North Carolina seal of a registered architect or of a registered engineer.
When any provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina or of any
ordinance of this city requires that work be done by a licensed specialty
contractor of any kind, no permit for the work shall be issued unless the work
is to be performed by such a duly licensed contractor. No permit issued under
G.S. Chapter 143 Articles 9 or 9C shall be required for any construction,
installation, repair, replacement, or alteration costing $$40,000 or less in
any single-family residence or farm building unless the work involves: the
addition, repair or replacement of load bearing structures; the addition
(excluding replacement of same size and capacity) or change in the design of
plumbing; the addition, replacement or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning or electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment; the use of
materials not permitted by the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code; or the addition (excluding replacement of like grade of fire resistance)
of roofing. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to division (A) for any land-
disturbing activity, as defined in G.S. § 113A-52, or for any activity covered
by G.S. § 113A-57, unless an erosion and sedimentation control plan for the
site of the activity or a tract of land including the site of the activity has
been approved under G.S. Chapter 113A, Article 4, the Sedimentation Pollution
Control Act.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to division (A)(1) above for any
land- disturbing activity that is subject to, but does not comply with, the
requirements of state law.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued pursuant to division (A)(1)(a) above where
the cost of the work is $40,000 or more, other than for improvements to an
existing single-family residential dwelling unit as defined in G.S. § 87-15.5
(7) that the applicant uses as a residence, unless the name, physical and
mailing address, telephone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail
address of the lien agent designated by the owner pursuant to G.S. § 44A-11.1
(a) is conspicuously set forth in the permit or in an attachment thereto. The
building permit may contain the lien agent’s electronic mail address. The lien
agent information for each permit issued pursuant to this division shall be
maintained by the Building Inspector in the same manner and in the same
location in which it maintains its record of building permits issued.
   (D)   Permit fees.
      (1)   Except as may be provided otherwise by state law in any case, the
applicant for any permit required by this chapter shall pay to the Building
Inspector, prior to the issuance of the permit, such fee therefor as provided
in division (2) of this section.
      (2)   The City Council may, by resolution from time to time, prepare
schedules of fees for permits issued pursuant to this chapter and for which a
fee is not provided or prohibited by state law. Copies of such schedules shall
be posted for public information in the office of the Building Inspector.
      (3)   A fee of $50 for each inspection visit after the required
inspections plus one inspection.
('69 Code, § 5-13) (Ord., passed 9-12-85; Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13;
Am. Ord. 42 ORD 11-24, passed 11-7-24; Am. Ord. 2 ORD 1-25, passed 1-9-25)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Cross reference:
   Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, see
Chapter 152
§ 150.26 WORK ON APPLICANT'S OWN PROPERTY.
   The evaluation of whether a person is required to obtain a permit to perform
work on the individual’s own property shall be controlled by the applicable
statutory and regulatory provisions of the State of North Carolina,
specifically including G.S. § 160D-1110.
(Ord., passed 4-14-88; Am. Ord. 2 ORD 1-25, passed 1-9-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.27 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   A permit issued pursuant to §
150.25 shall expire by limitation six months, or any lesser time fixed by
ordinance of the City Council, after the date of issuance if the work
authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If after commencement the work
is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the permit therefor shall
immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit that has expired shall
thereafter be performed until a new permit has been secured.
(G.S. § 160A-418)
§ 150.28 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application, plans and specifications, or the permit, except where changes
or deviations are clearly permissible under the State Building Code, shall be
made until specific written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been
obtained from the Building Inspector.
(G.S. § 160A-419)
§ 150.29 INSPECTIONS OF WORK IN PROGRESS.
   Subject to the limitation imposed by G.S. § 160D-1104, as the work pursuant
to a permit progresses, the Building Inspector shall make as many inspections
thereof as may be necessary to satisfy him that the work is being done
according to the provisions of any applicable state laws or ordinances of this
city and of the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Building
Inspector shall have a right to enter on any premises within his or her
jurisdiction at all reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action, upon presentation of proper credentials. If a permit has
been obtained by an owner exempt from licensure under G.S. § 87-1(b)(2), no
inspection shall be conducted without the owner being personally present,
unless the plans for the building were drawn and sealed by an architect
licensed pursuant to G.S. Ch. 83A.
(G.S. § 160A-420) (Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21,
passed 12-9-21)
§ 150.30 STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a hazardous
manner, or in substantial violation of any state law or ordinance of this city,
or in a manner that endangers life or property, the Building Inspector may
order the specific part of the work that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped. The stop order shall be in writing, directed
to the person doing the work, and shall state the specific work to be stopped,
the specific reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. The owner or builder may appeal from a stop order involving alleged
violation of the State Building Code or any approved modification thereof made
by ordinance of this city to the North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance or
his designee within a period of five days after the order is issued. Notice of
appeal shall be given in writing to the Commissioner of Insurance or his
designee, with a copy to the Building Inspector. The Commissioner of Insurance
or his designee shall promptly conduct an investigation and the appellant and
the Inspector shall be permitted to submit relevant evidence. The Commissioner
or his designee shall as expeditiously as possible provide a written statement
of the decision setting forth the facts found, the decision reached, and the
reasons for the decision. Pending the ruling by the Commissioner of Insurance
or his designee on an appeal no further work shall take place in violation of a
stop order. In the event of dissatisfaction with the decision, the person
affected shall have the options of:
      (1)   Appealing to the Building Code Council, or
      (2)   Appealing to the Superior Court as provided in G.S. § 143-141.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(b), the violation of a stop order shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-421) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.31 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Building Inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
the requirements of any applicable state law or ordinance of this city; or for
false statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any permit
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state law or ordinance of this
city may also be revoked.
(G.S. § 160A-422)
§ 150.32 CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   At the conclusion of all work done under a permit, the Building Inspector
shall make a final inspection, and if he finds that the completed work complies
with all applicable state laws and ordinances of this city and with the terms
of the permit, he shall issue a certificate of compliance. No new building or
part thereof may be occupied, and no addition or enlargement of an existing
building may be occupied, and no existing building that has been altered or
moved may be occupied, until the Building Inspector has issued a certificate of
compliance. A temporary certificate of compliance may be issued permitting
occupancy for a stated period of specified portions of the building that the
Inspector finds may safely be occupied prior to final completion of the entire
building. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-423)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.33 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may make periodic inspections, subject to the
City Council's directions, for unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous and
unlawful conditions in buildings or structures within the territorial
jurisdiction, specifically including without limitation the extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction, of the city. Except as provided in division (B) of this
section, the Building Inspector may make periodic inspections only when there
is reasonable cause to believe that unsafe, unsanitary, or otherwise hazardous
or unlawful conditions may exist in a residential building or structure. For
purposes of this section, the term REASONABLE CAUSE means any of the following:
      (1)   The landlord or owner has a history of more than two verified
violations of the housing ordinances or codes within a 12-month period;
      (2)   There has been a complaint that substandard conditions exist within
the building or there has been a request that the building be inspected;
      (3)   The Building Inspector has actual knowledge of an unsafe condition
within the building; or
      (4)   Violations of the local ordinances or codes are visible from the
outside of the property.
   (B)   In conducting inspections authorized under this section, the Building
Inspector shall not discriminate between single-family and multifamily
buildings. In exercising this power, the Building Inspector shall have a right
to enter on any premises within his jurisdiction at all reasonable hours for
the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of
proper credentials.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit periodic
inspections in accordance with the State Fire Prevention Code or as otherwise
required by state law.
(G.S. § 160A-424(a)) (Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13)
§ 150.34 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Building Inspector shall keep complete and accurate records in
convenient form of all applications received, permits issued, inspections and
reinspections made, defects found, certificates compliance granted, and all
other work and activities of the Inspector. These records shall be kept in the
manner and for the periods prescribed by the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the City Council and
to the Commissioner of Insurance as they shall by ordinance, rule, or
regulation require.
(G.S. § 160A-433)
§ 150.35 APPEALS.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision, or
determination by the Building Inspector pertaining to the State Building Code
or other State building laws shall be taken to the Commissioner of Insurance or
his designee or other official specified in G.S. § 143-139, by filing a written
notice with him and with the Building Inspector within a period of ten days
after the order, decision, or determination. Further appeals may be taken to
the State Building Code Council or to the courts as provided by law.
(G.S. § 160A-434)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.45 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Building Inspector finds any defects in a building, or finds that
the building has not been constructed in accordance with the applicable state
laws and ordinances of this city, or that a building because of its condition
is dangerous or contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous
conditions, or failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each
immediately remedy the defects, hazardous conditions, or violations of law in
the property he owns.
(G.S. § 160A-425)
§ 150.46 UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED.
   (A)   Residential building and nonresidential building or structure. Every
building that shall appear to the Building Inspector to be especially dangerous
to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad condition of walls,
overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating
system, inadequate means of egress or other causes, shall be held to be unsafe,
and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of the
structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
   (B)   Nonresidential building or structure. In addition to the authority
granted in division (A), the Building Inspector may declare a nonresidential
building or structure within a community development target area to be unsafe
if it meets both of the following conditions:
      (1)   It appears to the Inspector to be vacant or abandoned; and
      (2)   It appears to the Inspector to be in such dilapidated condition as
to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, fire or safety hazard, to
be a danger to children, or to tend to attract persons intent on criminal
activities or other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   (C)   If the Inspector declares a nonresidential building or structure to be
unsafe under division (B) of this section, the Inspector must affix a notice of
the unsafe character of the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior
wall of the building. For the purposes of this section, the term COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT TARGET AREA means: an area that has characteristics of a
development zone under G.S. § 105-129.3A, a nonresidential redevelopment area
under G.S. § 160A-503(10), or an area with similar characteristics designated
by the City Council as being in special need of revitalization for the benefit
and welfare of its citizens.
(G.S. § 160A-426) (Am. Ord. 26-00, passed 12-7-00)
§ 150.47 REMOVING NOTICE FROM CONDEMNED BUILDINGS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D- 1120, if any person shall remove any notice that
has been affixed to any building or structure by the Building Inspector and
that states the dangerous character of the building or structure, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(G.S. § 160A-427) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21; Am. Ord. 4 ORD 1-23,
passed 1-5-23) Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.48 ACTION IN EVENT OF FAILURE TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   (A)   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as
unsafe pursuant to §
150.46 shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the Building Inspector
shall give him written notice, by certified or registered mail to his last
known address or by personal service:
      (1)   That the building or structure is in a condition that appears to
meet one or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Constitutes a fire or safety hazard;
         (b)   Is dangerous to life, health, or property;
         (c)   Is likely to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy,
or danger to children; or
         (d)   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities
or other activities which would constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the inspector at a designated
place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate or demolish the building or structure as appears
appropriate.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot after due diligence be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question
at least ten days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published
in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at least once not later
than one week prior to the hearing.
(G.S. § 160A-428) (Am. Ord. 27-00, passed 12-7-00)
§ 150.49 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in §
150.48, the Building Inspector shall find that the building or structure is in
a condition that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to
life, health, or other property, he shall make an order in writing, directed to
the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to remedy the
defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating or demolishing the
building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within such period, not
less than 60 days, as the inspector may prescribe; provided, that where the
Inspector finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
(G.S. § 160A-429)
§ 150.50 APPEAL; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
150.49 may appeal from the order to the City Council by giving notice of appeal
in writing to the Inspector and to the City Clerk within ten days following
issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Inspector
shall be final. The City Council shall hear and render a decision in an appeal
within a reasonable time. The City Council may affirm, modify and affirm or
revoke the order.
(G.S. § 160A-430) (Am. Ord. 28-00, passed 12-7-00)
§ 150.51 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D- 1124, if the owner of a building or structure fails
to comply with an order issued pursuant to § 150.49 from which no appeal has
been taken or fails to comply with an order of the City Council following an
appeal, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the
discretion of the court.
(G.S. § 160A-431) (Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.52 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor under the
provisions of this chapter, the city, either in addition to or in lieu of other
remedies, may initiate any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate the violation or to prevent the occupancy of the
building or structure involved.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of a nonresidential building or structure declared
unsafe under §
150.46, the city may, in lieu of taking action under subsection (A), cause the
building or structure to be removed or demolished. The amounts incurred by the
city in connection with the removal or demolition shall be a lien against the
real property upon which the cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have
the same priority, and be collected in the same manner as liens for special
assessments provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art.10 (§§ 160A-216 through 160A-239).
If the building or structure is removed or demolished by the city, the city
shall sell the usable materials of the building and any personal property,
fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the building. The city shall
credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition.
Any balance remaining from the sale shall be deposited with the Clerk of
Superior Court of Randolph County, and shall be disbursed by the court to the
person found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
      (2)   Additional lien. The amounts incurred by the city in connection
with the removal or demolition shall also be a lien against any other real
property owned by the owner of the building or structure and located within the
city limits or within one mile of the city limits, except for the owner’s
primary residence. The provisions of division (B)(1) of this section apply to
this additional lien, except that this additional lien is inferior to all prior
liens and shall be collected as a money judgement.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit the
power of the city to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or
abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(G.S. § 160A-432) (Am. Ord. 29-00, passed 12-7-00)
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Finding; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.04   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
151.05   Minimum standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment
and facilities
   
151.06   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
151.07   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
151.08   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.09   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.10   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
151.11   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.12   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
151.13   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.14   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.15   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.16   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.17   Costs, a lien on premises
   
151.18   Alternative remedies
   
151.19   Zoning Board of Adjustment designated to hear appeals
   
151.20   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.21   Violations
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby declared that there exist
in the city dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering such
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety
and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city as authorized by Article 12 of Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum
standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings
used for human habitation as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160D-1205.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter. Whenever the words "dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, premises" are used in this ordinance, they shall be construed as
through they were followed by the words "or any part thereof".
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located party underground, having
direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located party of wholly underground
having an inadequate access to light and after from windows located party or
wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by fining of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part thereof which is wholly or party
used or intended to  be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith. Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not
be regarded as a dwelling. The term shall include within its meaning the terms
rooming house and rooming unit, as hereinafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food.
   GENDER. Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter genders.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or any authorized agent of the
Inspector.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or  severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be
bound to comply with the provisions of this ordinance, and of rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he were the
owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other legal entity.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The city Housing Authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the city or of the county or
the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire, building regulations or
other activities concerning dwellings in the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive times.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or more
of he minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
§ 151.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.09.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, andy dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.04 through
151.09.
§ 151.04 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit:
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches, or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonably household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonably privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
§ 151.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a portable water supply
and to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connect to a portable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the state
plumbing code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
work order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F. measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2) Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating system
is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F. measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner
as determined by the state electrical code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electrical light fixture in the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the state electrical code.
§ 151.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or
any room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such a window shall not be deemed to face direct]y to the outdoors and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such
room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the
total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in, every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
§ 151.07 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the state residential building
code.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet or
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants and at least 75
feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming units every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the
purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms;
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
§ 151.08 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration or moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use could cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the state residential building code.
§ 151.09 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every
window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
providing an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonable insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by city ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of
such dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an approved outside garbage can as required by city
ordinances.
§ 151.10 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy and any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in
the following divisions:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever these facilities are shared.
All such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and
shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not
more than one story removed from any or the persons sharing such facilities.
Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold
water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate
from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall and are accessible
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
§ 151.11 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the owner shall be
responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully, destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or
any part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Note: The respective responsibilities of landlords and tenants under rental
agreements for dwelling units are further enumerated in state law, G.S. Chapter
42, Article 5.)
§ 151.12 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry-out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this chapter. The Building Inspector shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located within the territorial jurisdiction, specifically
including without limitation the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, of the
city, in order to determine which dwellings and dwelling units are unfit for
human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this
chapter with respect to the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings and
dwelling units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
holdings which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed;
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in accordance with §
151.13 and state law, and shall be made in such manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (F)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this chapter
and to delegate any of his functions and powers to such officers, agents and
employees; and
   (G)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
City Council.
(Am. Ord. 08 ORD 4-13, passed 4-4-13)
§ 151.13 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises associated
therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the Inspector
free access to such dwelling and its premises at all reasonable times For the
purposes of such inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part
of such dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Note: When permission to inspect a dwelling or its premises is denied, the
Building Inspector must obtain a warrant to inspect. G.S. § 15-27.2 provides
for the issuance or warrants for the conduct of inspections authorized by law.
The N.C. Court of Appeals, in In Re Dwelling, 24 N.C. App. 17 (1974), has held
that the consent of the tenant-occupant who was in actual possession and
control of the premises was sufficient to authorize an inspection without a
warrant, notwithstanding the fact that the owner had objected to the
warrantless search. When faced with a situation where permission to inspect is
denied, building inspectors are advised to seek the advice of the city or town
attorney.)
§ 151.14 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition, is
filed with the Inspector by a Public Authority or by at least five residents of
the city charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any
dwelling or unit is unfit for human habitation he shall, if his preliminary
investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit a
complaint stating the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be
held before the Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor more
than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in
interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear
in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do
so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After such notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state in writing his determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit
is unfit for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or
dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter, or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90
days. Such order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close such
dwelling or dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations, and improvements
have been made.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he
shall state in writing his findings of fact to support such determination, and
shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order directing
and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve such dwelling or
dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness established by
this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same within a
specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter, or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter or improve or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the City Council at its next regular
meeting a resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the superior court
for an order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. §§ 160D-305 and 160D-1208.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Inspector
within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in the preceding division (1), the Inspector
shall submit to the City Council an ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause
such dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated,
closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the
Inspector, and pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on such
dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203 and §
151.16.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector. An appeal from any decision or order
of the Inspector may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from
the Inspector shall be taken within ten days from the rendering of the decision
or service of the order, and shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and
with the Zoning Board of Adjustment for the City of Asheboro a notice of appeal
which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Said notice of
appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, hereinafter referred to as the
"Board," shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator for the City of Asheboro
on a form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator. Upon the proper filing of any
notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow the person
aggrieved thereby to do any act, his decision shall remain in force until
modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector
requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect
of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the
Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him,
that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished to the appellant), a suspension of his requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written
notice to the Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition
made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(f) and division (E) below.
       (1)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of seven members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (2)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §§
160D-305 and 160D-1208.
(Am. Ord. 68-03, passed 7-10-03; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.15 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may be
made by publishing the same at least once no later than the time at which
personal service would be required under the provisions of this chapter in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city. Where service is made by
publication, a notice of pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
§ 151.16 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an
order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and
upon adoption by the City Council of an ordinance authorizing and directing him
to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203 and §
151.14(C), the Inspector shall proceed to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit
to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed or
demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the City Council, and shall cause
to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or dwelling unit a placard
with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful". Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the
county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S § 160D-1203.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.17 COSTS, A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S §§ 160D- 305 and 160D-1208, the cost of any repairs,
alterations, or improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.15 shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred such lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the
same manner as the lien for special assessments established by Article 10,
Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.18 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, and the enforcement of
any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other
remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.19 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT DESIGNATED TO HEAR APPEALS.
   Pursuant to and in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-305 and 160D-1208, the Board
of Adjustment established by the Asheboro Zoning Ordinance is hereby designated
as the board that shall perform the duties prescribed by §
151.14(D) of the Code of Asheboro. When discharging its duties pursuant to
Chapter 151 of the Code of Asheboro and Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, the Board of Adjustment shall keep an accurate record of all
its proceedings.
(Am. Ord. 68-03, passed 7-10-03; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 151.20 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the city; the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city shall prevail.
§ 151.21 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in such order. Each
day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.14, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing. Each day that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter,
this chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 152: NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Applicability and compliance
   
152.05   Maintenance standards for nonresidential buildings
   
152.06   Duties of the City Enforcement Officer
   
152.07   Powers of the City Enforcement Officer
   
152.08   Inspections
   
152.09   Procedure for enforcement
   
152.10   Limitation ons orders and ordinances; historic landmark or historic
district
   
152.11   Limitations on orders and ordinances; vacant manufacturing facility or
vacant industrial warehouse
   
152.12   Vacated and closed nonresidential buildings
   
152.13   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
152.14   In rem action by the City Enforcement Officer
   
152.15   Costs are a lien on premises
   
152.16   Ejectment
   
152.17   Filing of ordinances
   
152.18   Alternative remedies
   
152.19   Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
152.20   Temporary injunction remedy for aggrieved person
   
152.21   Conflict with other provisions
   
152.22   Violations; penalties
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Nonresidential Building Maintenance Code."
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to and in accordance with the enabling legislation found in G.S. §
160D- 1129, this chapter is enacted for the purpose of protecting the health,
safety, and welfare of the city and its citizens by establishing minimum
standards of maintenance, sanitation, and safety for nonresidential buildings
or structures. Furthermore, this chapter identifies the circumstances under
which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of
nonresidential buildings or structures that are dangerous to the public health,
safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall, unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning, be defined as
follows.
   BASIC STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS. The parts of a building which provide the
principal strength, stability, integrity, shape, and safety of the building,
including but not limited to plates, studs, joists, rafters, stringers, stairs,
sub-flooring, flooring, sheathing, lathing, roofing, siding, window frames,
door frames, porches, railings, eaves, chimneys, flashing, masonry, and all
other essential components.
   BUILDING. Any structure, place, or any other construction built for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind or
any part of such structure, shelter, or property.
   CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City of Asheboro Chief Building Inspector or
the City of Asheboro Code Enforcement Officer.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Any building or portion of a building occupied or intended
to be occupied, in whole
or in part, for a use other than a dwelling, home, residing place, living
space, or sleeping space for one or more human beings, either permanently or
transiently.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who is a tenant or has actual possession of a
nonresidential building or part thereof.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a nonresidential
building or part thereof.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly and severally with others shall have:
      (1)   Title in fee simple to any nonresidential building, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Charge, care, or control of any nonresidential building as owner or
agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix,
trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus representing
the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
and with any rules, regulations, and orders adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a nonresidential building and any who are in
possession thereof.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building or
improvements located thereon.
   SAFE. A condition that is not likely to do harm to humans or to real or
personal property.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay, or
deterioration to the extent that the building or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or placed upon a property which is supported
by the ground or which is supported by any other structure, except a currently
operable licensed vehicle.
   UNSAFE. A condition which is reasonably likely to do harm to humans or to
real or personal property if not corrected or stopped.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building designed for the storage of goods
or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which has not been
used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to
another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building previously used for the lawful
production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for that purpose
for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.04 APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all nonresidential
buildings which are now in existence or which may be built within the corporate
limits of the city.
   (B)   Every nonresidential building and the premises on which such a
building is situated shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether
or not the building shall have been constructed, altered, or repaired before or
after the enactment of this chapter, and irrespective of any permits or
licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or for
the installment or repair of equipment or facilities. This chapter establishes
minimum standards for all nonresidential buildings and does not replace or
modify standards otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration, or use of the building or the equipment/facilities contained
therein.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.05 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All nonresidential buildings shall be free of all conditions that are
dangerous and injurious to the public health, safety, and welfare of occupants
or members of the general public.
   (B)   Without limitation of the foregoing requirement, the existence of any
of the following conditions shall be deemed to be dangerous to the public
health, safety, and welfare:
      (1)   Interior walls, vertical studs, partitions, supporting members,
sills, joists, rafters, or other basic structural members that list, lean, or
buckle to such an extent as to render the building unsafe; that are rotted,
deteriorated, or damaged; and that have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents;
      (2)   Exterior walls that are not structurally sound, free from defects
and damages, and capable of bearing imposed loads safely. Where a wall of a
building has become exposed as a result of the demolition of an adjacent
building, the exposed wall must be painted, stuccoed, or bricked and
sufficiently weatherproofed to prevent deterioration of the wall;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used. Floors or roofs must have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Roofs must be kept
structurally sound and must be maintained in such a manner so as to prevent
rain or other objects from penetrating into the interior of the building;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind, or other causes as to render the
building unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions, or disrepair that is
dangerous to the health and safety of the occupants or members of the general
public;
      (6)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating, or sanitary
facilities to such an extent as to endanger the health, safety, or general
welfare of the occupants or members of the general public;
      (7)   Buildings, including their environs, with an accumulation of
garbage, trash, or rubbish that creates health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste must be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary manner;
      (8)   Buildings with loose and insufficiently anchored overhanging
objects that pose a danger of falling on persons or property;
      (9)   Buildings, including their environs, that have insufficiently
protected holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions, and other such
dangerous impediments on and around walks, driveways, parking lots, alleyways,
and other areas that are accessible to and generally used by persons on or
around the premises;
      (10)   Buildings and structures that have cracked or broken glass, loose
shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic, or
other objects/materials existing in such quantities and/or configurations as to
create dangerous or hazardous conditions;
      (11)   Buildings with objects and elements protruding from walls or roofs
that are unsafe or not properly secured or which can create a hazard such as
abandoned electrical boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other
brackets, and similar objects;
      (12)   Chimneys, flues, and vent attachments thereto that are not
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents, or other draft-producing
equipment that are in use must provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment and must be structurally safe, durable,
smoke-tight, and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases;
      (13)   Exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs, or fire escapes
that are not structurally sound. All exterior porches, landings, balconies,
stairs, and fire escapes must be provided with banisters or railings properly
designed and maintained to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same must be
kept sound, in good repair, and free of defects;
      (14)   Cornices that are not structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions must be repaired and/or replaced. Exposed wood must be treated or
painted;
      (15)   Improperly attached gutters or down-spouts that are located so as
to cause a hazard to pedestrian, vehicular traffic, or adjacent property;
      (16)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding awnings,
marquees and their supporting members, and other similar attachments and
structures that cause a safety hazard to the occupants or members of the
general public;
      (17)   Exterior surfaces that may cause unsafe conditions due to a lack
of maintenance. Exterior surfaces must be painted or sealed in order to protect
the underlying surface from deterioration. All exterior surfaces that have been
painted must be maintained generally free of peeling and flaking. Where 50% or
more of the aggregate of any painted surface has peeling or flaking or previous
paint worn away, the entire surface must be properly prepped, repainted, or
otherwise clad in order to prevent further deterioration;
      (18)   Windows containing broken or cracked glass that could be in danger
of falling or shattering. All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of
proper size and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or
loose mullions;
      (19)   Openings originally designed as windows, doors, loading docks, or
other means of egress or ingress that have been temporarily closed by boarding
or in some other manner that is non-secure and allows unauthorized admittance.
If an opening is temporarily closed by boarding to secure the building or
structure, the boarding must be trim fit, sealed to prevent water intrusion,
and painted or stained to properly conform to the other exterior portions of
the building. The building must be maintained in a state that secures the
building from any unauthorized admittance from humans, animals, or birds; and
      (20)   Any combination of conditions that in the judgment of the City
Enforcement Officer renders a building dangerous or injurious to the health,
safety, or general welfare of occupants or members of the general public.
   (C)   When any of the conditions listed in division (B) of this section are
found by the City Enforcement Officer to exist in connection with a
nonresidential building located within the City of Asheboro, a public necessity
exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of the building, and such
conditions must be corrected in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.06 DUTIES OF THE CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   The City Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as the public
officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties
and powers herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Enforcement Officer:
      (1)   To carry out the objectives of this chapter by inspecting and
investigating the conditions of nonresidential buildings located in the city in
order to determine which nonresidential buildings reflect a lack of adequate
maintenance that, in turn, jeopardizes the health and safety of the building's
occupants or members of the general public;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments,
agencies, and public or private entities, as may be necessary to effect the
repair or demolition of nonresidential buildings that have not been properly
maintained in compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those nonresidential buildings that have not been
properly maintained in compliance with the minimum standards established by
this chapter; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.07 POWERS OF THE CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Enforcement Officer is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To investigate nonresidential buildings located within the city to
determine whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the
minimum standards established by this chapter so that the safety and health of
the occupants and members of the general public are not jeopardized;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided that the entries shall be made in accordance with all
applicable constitutional protections, statutes, ordinances, and regulations
and in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and designate the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as the City Enforcement Officer deems necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.08 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the City Enforcement Officer is
hereby authorized to enter, examine, and survey, at all reasonable times,
nonresidential buildings.
   (B)   If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary,
the entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant
that is obtained and served in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with the
permission of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally
in possession of the premises.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.09 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the City Enforcement
Officer that a nonresidential building has not been properly maintained and
that the safety or health of the building's occupants or members of the general
public is jeopardized due to the failure of the property to meet the minimum
standards established by this chapter, the City Enforcement Officer shall
undertake a preliminary investigation.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation of a
nonresidential building discloses evidence of a violation of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, the City Enforcement Officer shall issue
and cause a complaint to be served upon the owner and the parties in interest
identified during the investigation of the nonresidential building. The
complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a hearing will be
held before the City Enforcement Officer at a place and time on a date
specified within the notice, the said hearing date shall not be less than ten
days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint; that the owner
and parties in interest shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to
appear in person, or otherwise, and to give testimony at the place and time
specified in the complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts
of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the City
Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing, the City Enforcement Officer
determines that the nonresidential building has been maintained so as to meet
the minimum standards established by this chapter, the City Enforcement Officer
shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that determination and
shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof a copy of the
determination.
      (2)   If, after notice and hearing, the City Enforcement Officer
determines that the nonresidential building has not been properly maintained
and, consequently, the safety or health of the building's occupants or members
of the general public is jeopardized by the failure of the property to meet the
minimum standards established by this chapter, the City Enforcement Officer
shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that determination and
shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order in
accordance with the provisions of divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) of this section
and subject to the limitations set forth in §§
152.10 and
152.11.
      (3)   If the City Enforcement Officer determines that the cost of repair,
alteration, or improvement of the building would not exceed 50% of the
building's then current value, then the City Enforcement Officer shall state in
writing the findings of fact in support of the determination and issue an order
that requires the owner, within a reasonable time period that shall be no less
than 60 days and that shall be clearly stated in the order, to either: repair,
alter, or improve the nonresidential building in order to bring the building
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter; or
vacate and close the nonresidential building for any use.
      (4)   If the City Enforcement Officer determines that the cost of repair,
alteration, or improvement of the building would exceed 50% of the building's
then current value, then the City Enforcement Officer shall state in writing
the findings of fact in support of the determination and issue an order that
requires the owner, within a reasonable time period that shall be no less than
60 days and that shall be clearly stated in the order, to either: repair,
alter, or improve the nonresidential building in order to bring the building
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter; or to
remove or demolish the nonresidential building.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order and subsequent action to be taken.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve the nonresidential building or, alternatively, vacate and close the
nonresidential building, the City Enforcement Officer shall submit to the City
Council an ordinance ordering the City Enforcement Officer to either cause the
nonresidential building to be repaired, altered, or improved in order to bring
the building into compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter or to cause the building to be vacated and closed for any use. The
property shall be described in the ordinance. If the City Council adopts the
ordinance, the City Enforcement Officer shall cause the building to be
repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed for any use.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve the nonresidential building or, alternatively, to remove or demolish
the building, the City Enforcement Officer shall submit to the City Council an
ordinance ordering the City Enforcement Officer to cause the nonresidential
building to be removed or demolished. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
removal or demolition of a nonresidential building until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring the building into conformity with
the minimum standards established by this chapter. The property shall be
described in the ordinance. If the City Council adopts the ordinance, the City
Enforcement Officer shall cause the building to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.10 LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS AND ORDINANCES; HISTORIC LANDMARK OR HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the nonresidential
building is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the National
Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated historic
district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of Historic
Places and the City Council determines, after a public hearing, that the
nonresidential building is of individual significance or contributes to
maintaining the character of the district, and the nonresidential building has
not been condemned as unsafe, an order issued by the City Enforcement Officer
pursuant to §
152.09(C) and an ordinance approved by the City Council pursuant to §
152.09(D) may only require that the nonresidential building be vacated and
closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum standards
established by this chapter.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.11 LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS AND ORDINANCES; VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY OR
VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an order issued by the
City Enforcement Officer pursuant to §
152.09(C) and an ordinance approved by the City Council pursuant to §
152.09(D) may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be made to a
vacant manufacturing facility or a vacant industrial warehouse to preserve the
original use. The order and ordinance may require the building to be vacated
and closed, but repairs may be required only when necessary to maintain
structural integrity or to abate a health or safety hazard that cannot be
remedied by ordering the building closed for any use.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.12 VACATED AND CLOSED NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   If the City Enforcement Officer has issued an order and the City
Council has adopted an ordinance requiring a nonresidential building to be
repaired, altered, or improved or, alternatively, to be vacated and closed, and
the building has been vacated and closed for a period of two years pursuant to
the order and/or ordinance, then if the City Council finds that the owner has
abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the building and
that the continuation of the building in its vacated and closed status would be
inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the city in that the building
would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, then the City Council may, after the expiration of
the two-year period, adopt an ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner
setting forth the following:
      (1)   The ordinance shall require that the owner repair, alter, or
improve the nonresidential building in order to bring the building into
compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter within 90
days or, alternatively, demolish and remove the nonresidential building within
90 days.
      (2)   The ordinance shall require that if the owner fails to repair,
alter, or improve the nonresidential building in order to bring the building
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter within
90 days or, alternatively, fails to demolish and remove the nonresidential
building within 90 days, then the City Enforcement Officer shall demolish and
remove the nonresidential building.
   (B)   In the case of a vacant manufacturing facility or a vacant industrial
warehouse, the building must have been vacated and closed pursuant to an order
and/or ordinance for a period of five years before the City Council may take
action under this section.
   (C)   If the owner fails to comply with the requirements of the ordinance
within 90 days, the City Enforcement Officer shall demolish and remove the
nonresidential building.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.13 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the City Enforcement Officer under this
chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or
certified mail and, in conjunction therewith, may be served by regular mail.
When the manner of service is by regular mail in conjunction with registered or
certified mail, and the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused,
but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after
mailing, service shall be deemed sufficient. The person mailing the complaint
or order by regular mail shall certify that fact and the date thereof, and the
certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. If regular mail is
used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises thereby affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owner or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the City Enforcement Officer in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the City Enforcement Officer files an
affidavit to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the
owners or other persons who have not been identified and/or located may be made
by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at least
once no later than the time at which personal service would be required under
the provisions of this chapter. When service is made by publication, a notice
of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.14 IN REM ACTION BY THE CITY ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   After failure of an owner of a nonresidential building to comply with an
order of the City Enforcement Officer issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter and upon adoption by the City Council of an ordinance authorizing and
directing the owner to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1129 and §
152.09(D), the City Enforcement Officer shall proceed to cause the
nonresidential building to be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with the
minimum standards established by this chapter, to be vacated and closed, or to
be removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the City Council. The
City Enforcement Officer may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any
nonresidential building that is to be vacated and closed a placard with the
following words: "This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation of
this building for any purpose is prohibited and unlawful."
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.15 COSTS ARE A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1129(i), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations, or improvements, vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the City Enforcement Officer pursuant
to §§
152.09(D) or
152.12 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the costs were
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, be enforced, and the
costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. The amount of the costs
shall also be a lien on any other real property of the owner located within the
city limits except for the owner's primary residence. The additional lien
provided in this subdivision is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (B)   If the nonresidential building is removed or demolished by the City
Enforcement Officer, such officer shall offer for sale the recoverable
materials of the building and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building and shall credit the proceeds of the sale,
if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining
shall be deposited in the Superior Court by the City Enforcement Officer, shall
be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the
court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of
the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the governing body to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.16 EJECTMENT.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building, the City Enforcement Officer may file a civil action in the name of
the city to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the nonresidential building. The Clerk
of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear
before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not to exceed ten days
from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and
complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be
returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been
duly served and if at the hearing the City Enforcement Officer produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the City Council pursuant to G.S. §
160D-1129(f) and §
152.09(D) to vacate the occupied nonresidential building, the magistrate shall
enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and all persons be
removed. The judgment ordering that the nonresidential building be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered under this
subsection by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the
execution of the judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action
to remove an occupant of a nonresidential building who is a tenant of the owner
may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
subsection unless the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding, that the City Council has
ordered the City Enforcement Officer to proceed to exercise his or her duties
under  G.S. § 160D-1129(f)  and §
152.09(D) to vacate and close or remove and demolish the nonresidential
building.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4-14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.17 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance adopted by City Council pursuant to §§
152.09(D) or
152.12 shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Randolph
County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor
index, as provided by G.S. §§ 160D-1129(f) and (g).
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.18 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, and to utilize any
remedy provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.19 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals that may be taken from decisions or orders of the City
Enforcement Officer pursuant to this chapter shall be heard and determined by
the Board of Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board of Adjustment shall
have the power to set the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary
rules of procedure, and to adopt any other rules and regulations that may be
necessary for the proper discharge of its duties.
   (B)   Appeals shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the City Enforcement
Officer may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the City
Enforcement Officer shall be taken within ten days from the rendering of the
decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by filing with the City
Enforcement Officer and the Secretary to the Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal that shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the
filing of any notice of appeal, the City Enforcement Officer shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all of the papers constituting the record
upon which the decision under appeal was made. When the appeal is from a
decision of the City Enforcement Officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved
thereby to do any act, the City Enforcement Officer's decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
City Enforcement Officer requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board of Adjustment, unless the City Enforcement Officer certifies to the
Board, after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished to the appellant) a
suspension of the requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property,
in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining
order that may be granted for due cause shown, upon not less than one day's
written notice to the City Enforcement Officer, by the Board or by a court of
record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1208(d) and §
152.20.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall set a reasonable time for the hearing
of all appeals, shall give notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify the decision or order appealed from and may make such
decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter. To that
end, the Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers of the City Enforcement
Officer when ruling upon a duly filed appeal. A simple majority of the members
of the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the City Enforcement Officer. When considering an appeal, the Board
of Adjustment shall have the power, when practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to
adapt the application of the ordinance to the necessities of the case by
granting a variance to the end that the spirit of the ordinance shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done;
provided, however, that the concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of
the Board of Adjustment shall be necessary to grant a variance rather than the
simple majority that is sufficient, when the variance power is not utilized, to
reverse or modify a decision or order of the City Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   Every decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to review
by the Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted
within 30 days of the decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.20 TEMPORARY INJUNCTION REMEDY FOR AGGRIEVED PERSON.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the City Enforcement Officer or a
decision rendered by the Board of Adjustment shall have the right within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision to petition the
Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the City Enforcement
Officer pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160D-
1208(d).
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
§ 152.21 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any other ordinance or code of the city, the
provisions that establish the higher standard or more stringent requirement for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the citizens of the
city shall prevail.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14)
§ 152.22 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential building to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, to vacate and
close, or to remove or demolish the same upon order of the City Enforcement
Officer duly made and served in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within the time specified in the order, and each day that any such failure,
neglect, or refusal to comply with the order continues shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
nonresidential building, with respect to which an order has been issued
pursuant to section §
152.09(C), to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration, improvement, or its
vacation and closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies provided by this
chapter, any owner of a nonresidential building that fails to comply with an
order of the City Enforcement Officer within the time specified therein, shall
be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for the first offense, $100
for the second offense in the calendar year, and $250 for the third and
subsequent offenses in the calendar year. Each subsequent offense after the
third will be subject to a civil penalty of $250. Each 30-day period or part
thereof in which a violation is allowed to persist will constitute a separate
and distinct offense.
(Ord. 22 ORD 12-14, passed 12-4- 14; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of city, see §
10.21
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The subdivision ordinance, as readopted May 7, 1987, as amended,
copies of which are on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision found within the above-referenced
subdivision ordinance, the City of Asheboro Subdivision Ordinance shall not
impose any criminal penalties on the basis of the violation of an ordinance
provision adopted under Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
('69 Code, Ch. 20) (Ord., passed 6-7-79; Am. Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
Cross-reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of city, see §
10.21
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The zoning ordinance as adopted January 6, 1966 readopted February 10,
1977, and revised, effective July 1, 2021, to comply with Chapter 160D of the
General Statutes of North Carolina, and as the ordinance may be subsequently
amended, is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as
fully as if set out at length herein.
   (B)   Copies of the City of Asheboro Zoning Ordinance are on file in the
Office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision found within the above-referenced zoning
ordinance, the City of Asheboro Zoning Ordinance shall not impose any criminal
penalties on the basis of the violation of an ordinance provision adopted under
Chapter 160D of the General Statutes of North Carolina, except for those
ordinance provisions related to unsafe buildings.
('69 Code, Ch. 25) (Am. Ord., passed 7-11-91; Am. Ord., passed 12-5-91; Am.
Ord. 36 ORD 12-21, passed 12-9-21)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to General Statutes of North Carolina
References to 1969 Code of Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO GENERAL STATUTES OF NORTH CAROLINA
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                        Code Section
7A-227                              152.16
7A-228                              152.16
                                    38.99,
                                    50.007,
                                    50.027,
                                    50.999,
                                    51.99,
                                    70.60,
                                    70.99,
                                    71.99,
14-4                                90.16,
                                    91.32,
                                    95.07,
                                    96.08,
                                    96.99,
                                    97.99,
                                    98.03,
                                    98.99,
                                    100.99,
                                    118.05
14-288.1(2)                         93.06
14-299.20A                          93.99
15-27.2                             151.13,
                                    152.08
18B-300.1                           118.05
18B-1001                            118.04
18B-1001(16)                        118.05
18B-1001.5                          118.05
18B-1010                            118.05
18B-1100(5)                         118.05
Ch. 20                              35.04
Ch. 20, Art. 7A                     71.04,
                                    71.53
20-4.01                             70.61,
                                    71.53
20-4.01(12a)                        70.61
20-4.01(23)                         70.51
20-4.01(27)                         70.01
20-97                               114.02
20-101                              35.07
20-158                              70.28
20.162.1                            71.99
20-219.11                           90.10
20-309                              35.05
42-5                                151.11
42-29                               152.16
42-30                               152.16
44A-1                               90.12
44A-11.1(a)                         150.25
Ch. 66, Art. 45, Part 1             110.05,
                                    110.06
66-68 et seq.                       113.04
66-399                              110.05
Ch. 67, Art. 1A                     91.17
Ch. 68, Art. 3                      91.03
Ch. 83A                             150.29
87-1(b)(2)                          150.29
87-15.5(7)                          150.25
90-95                               130.04
105-129.3A                          150.46
105-349 - 105-378                   36.02
Ch. 105A                            50.007
Ch. 113A, Art. 4                    150.25
113-274(c)(1a)                      91.08
113, Art. 22A                       91.08
113A-52(6)                          150.25
113A-57                             150.25
130A-190(a)                         91.16
130A-309.131(2)                     51.22
130A-309.131(16)                    51.22
132-1.1(c)                          50.009
132-1.10                            50.009
136-141 et seq.                     90.15
136-143                             90.15
143-9                               150.25
143-9C                              150.25
143-129                             36.30
143-131                             36.30
143-138(e)                          150.11
143-139                             95.07,
                                    150.35
143-141                             150.30
143-213(18)                         52.02
143-215.1                           52.02,
                                    52.21
143-215.3(a)(14)                    52.02
143-215.3C                          52.45
143-215.6B                          52.51
153A-122                            91.03
159-26(d)                           36.32
159-28.1                            36.18
159-29                              30.02
159-30                              36.19
159-31                              36.19
159-31(a)                           36.15
159-31(b)                           36.16
159-32                              36.17
159-55                              36.20
160A, Art. 10                       152.15
160A, Art. 10 (160A-216 - 160A-239) 150.52
160A, Art. 12                       30.07
160A-19                             34.56
160A-58.1(b)                        50.008
160A-148                            10.19
                                    10.99,
                                    38.02,
160A-175                            50.027,
                                    91.32,
                                    113.20
160A-193                            90.01,
                                    96.07
160A-203.1                          91.31
160A-205.4                          118.05
160A-209(d)                         36.01
160A-266(c)                         30.07
160A-302                            71.53
160A-303                            90.01,
                                    90.03
160A-303.2                          90.01,
                                    90.03
160A-312                            52.01
160A-418                            150.27
160A-419                            150.28
160A-420                            150.29
160A-421                            150.30
160A-422                            150.31
160A-423                            150.32
160A-424(a)                         150.33
160A-425                            150.45
160A-426                            150.46
160A-427                            150.47
160A-428                            150.48
160A-429                            150.49
160A-430                            150.50
160A-431                            150.51
160A-432                            150.52
160A-433                            150.34
160A-434                            150.35
160A-436                            150.02
160A-503(10)                        150.46
                                    34.51,
                                    34.54,
Ch. 160D                            34.56,
                                    151.19,
                                    153.01,
                                    154.01
                                    151.14,
160D-305                            151.17,
                                    151.19
160D-404(b)                         150.30
Ch. 160D, Art. 11                   150.03
160D-1104                           150.29
160D-1110                           150.26
160D-1120                           150.47
160D-1124                           150.51
160D-1126                           150.01
160D-1127                           95.07
160D-1129                           152.02,
                                    152.14
160D-1129(f)                        152.16,
                                    152.17
160D-1129(g)                        152.17
160D-1129(i)                        152.15
Ch. 160D, Art. 12                   151.01
160D-1201                           151.01
160D-1203                           151.14,
                                    151.16
160D-1205                           151.01
                                    151.14,
160D-1208                           151.17,
                                    151.19
160D-1208(d)                        152.19,
                                    152.20
166A-19.22                          93.01
166A-19.31                          93.02,
                                    93.07
166A-19.70(c)                       93.07
166A-19.70(d)                       93.07
168-1                               91.30
                                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1969 CODE OF ORDINANCES
1969 Code Section 1991 Code Section
1969 Code Section 1991 Code Section
1-8               10.20
1-10              10.21
2-1               30.01
2-2               30.02
2-3               30.03
2-4               30.04
2-5               30.05
2-6               31.01
2-7               31.02
2-8               31.03
2-9               31.04
2-10              31.05
2-12              31.06
2-13              31.07
2-14              30.06
2-15              32.01
2-16              32.02
2-17              32.03
2-18              32.03
2-19              32.04
2-20              32.05
2-21              32.06
2-22              36.30
2-24              36.31
2-35              34.51
2-36              34.52
2-37              34.53
2-38              34.54
2-39              34.55
2-40              34.56
2-41              34.57
2-42              34.58
2-43              34.59
2-44              34.60
2-45              34.61
2-46              34.62
2-47              34.63
2-48              34.64
2-49              34.65
2-50              34.66
2-50.1            34.01
2-50.2            34.02
2-50.3            34.03
2-50.4            34.03
2-50.5            34.04
2-50.6            34.05
2-71              37.01
5-1               150.01
5-2               150.03
5-3               150.10
5-4               150.11
5-7               150.14
5-13              150.25
6-1               92.01
6-2               92.02
6-5               92.04
6-6               92.05
6-7               92.06
6-8               92.07
6-9               92.08
6-10              92.09
6-14              92.10
6-16              92.12
6-17              92.13
6-18              92.14
6-21              92.17
6-22              92.18
6-23              92.19
6-24              92.20
6-25              92.21
7-1               33.01
7-2               33.02
7.1-1             94.01
7.1-2             94.02
7.1-3             94.03
7.1-4             94.04
7.1-5             94.05
7.1-6             94.06
7.1-7             94.99
7.1-8             94.07
9-1               51.01
9-2               51.02
9-3               51.03
9-4               51.04
9-5               51.05
9-7               51.06
9-8               51.07
9-11              51.16
9-12              51.17
9-13              51.18
9-14              51.19
9-15              51.20
9-16              51.21
9-18              51.22
9-19              51.23
9-20              51.24
11-27             113.02
11-28             113.04
11-32             113.05
11-33             113.09
11-35             113.19
12-1              70.01
12-2              70.02
12-7              70.03
12-13             70.15
12-14             70.16
12-15             70.17
12-16             70.18
12-17             70.19
12-18             70.20
12-19             70.21
12-20             70.22
12-21             70.23
12-22             70.24
12-23             70.25
12-24             70.26
12-25             70.27
12-28             71.01
12-29             71.02
12-30             71.03
12-31             71.04
12-31.1           71.05
12-32             71.06
12-33             71.07
12-34             71.08
12-35             71.09
12-36             71.10
12-37             71.11
12-38             71.12
12-39             71.13
12-42             71.16
12-43             71.17
12-44             71.18
12-45             71.19
12-46             71.20
12-47             71.21
12-48             71.30
12-49             71.31
12-61             71.32
12-62             71.50
12-63             71.51
12-64             71.52
12-66             71.53
12-67             71.54
12-68             71.55
12-69             70.29
12-70             70.29
12-71             70.40
12-72             70.41
12-73             70.42
12-74             70.43
12-75             70.44
12-76             70.45
12-77             70.46
12-78             70.47
12-79             70.48
12-80             70.49
12-84             70.52
12-85             70.52
12-86             70.50
12-88             70.29
12-89             70.53
12-90             70.54
12-92             70.55
12-93             70.56
12-94             70.57
12-95             70.58
12-95.1           70.51
12-104            72.01
12-105            72.02
12-107            72.03
12-108            72.04
12-109            72.05
13-1              96.15
13-2              96.16
14-3              130.01
14-4              130.05
14-21             112.01
14-24             130.08
14-25             130.03
14-50             96.01
14-51             96.02
14-52             96.03
14-53             96.04
14-54             96.05
14-55             96.06
14-56             96.07
14-57             96.08
15-1              97.01
15-2              97.02
15-3              97.03
15-4              97.04
15-5              97.05
15-6              97.06
15-7              97.07
15-8              97.08
15-10             97.10
15-11             97.11
17-11             34.78
17-12             34.78
17-13             34.78
17-14             34.78
17-15             34.78
17-16             34.78
17-21             34.78
18-1              34.15
18-2              34.16
18-7              34.50
19-1              99.01
19-2              99.02
19-3              99.03
19-3.1            99.04
19-3.2            99.05
19-4              99.10
19-5              99.13
19-6              99.14
19-7              99.15
19-8              99.16
19-9              99.17
19-10             99.25
19-11             99.26
19-12             99.27
19-13             99.28
19-14             99.29
19-15             99.30
19-16             99.40
19-16.1           99.41
19-17             99.11
19-18             99.12
19-19             99.50
19-20             99.51
19-22             99.53
Ch. 20            153.01
21-1              36.01
21-3              36.02
21-7              36.15
21-8              36.16
21-9              36.17
21-10             36.18
21-11             36.19
21-12             36.20
22-1              114.01
22-2              114.02
22-3              114.10
22-4              114.11
22-5              114.12
22-6              114.13
22-7              114.14
22-8              114.15
22-9              114.16
22-10             114.17
22-11             114.18
22-12             114.19
22-13             114.20
22-14             114.21
22-15             114.22
22-16             114.23
22-17             114.30
22-18             114.31
22-19             114.32
22-20             114.33
22-21             114.34
22-23             114.37
22-24             114.38
22-25             114.39
22-26             114.40
22-27             114.41
22-28             114.50
22-29             114.51
22-30             114.52
22-31             114.53
22-32             114.54
22-33             114.55
22-34             114.56
22-35             114.57
22-36             114.58
22-37             114.59
23-1              50.001
23-2              50.002,
                  50.003
23-4              50.004
23-4.1            50.005
23-5              50.006
23-6              50.007
23-8              50.015
23-9              50.016
23-10             50.017
23-11             50.019
23-12             50.020
23-13             50.022
23-14             50.023
23-15             50.024
23-16             50.025
23-19             50.026
23-22             50.037
23-23             50.038
23-24             50.039
23-25             50.040
23-26             50.041
23-27             50.042
23-28             50.043
23-29             50.044
23-32             50.055
23-33             50.056
23-34             50.057
23-35             50.058
23-36             50.059
23-37             50.065
23-38             50.066
23-40             50.075
23-41             50.076
23-42             50.077
23-43             50.078
23-44             50.079
23-45             50.080
23-46             50.090
23-47             50.091
23-48             50.092
23-49             50.093
23-50             50.094
23-51             50.095
23-53             50.097
23-54             50.098
23-55             50.099
23-56             50.100
23-57             50.101
23-58             50.102
23-59             50.110
23-60             50.111
23-61             50.112
23-62             50.113
23-63             50.114
23-64             50.115
24-1              115.01
24.1-1            100.01
24.1-2            100.02
24.1-3            100.03
24.1-4            100.04
24.1-7            100.06
24.1-8            100.07
24.1-9            100.99
Ch. 25            154.01
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
157        2-6-41      33.01,
                       33.02
3 RES 3-12 3- -12      91.03
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
165            8-7-41      96.15,
                           96.16
-              7-5-45      112.01
                           114.01,
                           114.02,
                           114.10,
                           114.12,
                           114.13 -
168            10-4-45     114.23,
                           114.30,
                           114.32 -
                           114.34,
                           114.41,
                           114.59
-              3-7-46      114.37
176            7-14-47     50.065,
                           50.066
177            7-14-47     50.110 -
                           50.115
178            7-14-47     92.06
181            9-4-47      51.04
-              11-3-47     114.22
                           114.11,
-              11-13-47    114.18 -
                           114.20
180            1-8-48      51.17 -
                           51.24
186            7-8-48      71.30 -
                           71.32
                           114.18 -
-              9-9-48      114.20,
                           114.37
-              8-4-49      50.007,
                           50.016
-              9-29-49     130.01
-              1-5-50      50.115
-              2-9-50      30.02
-              4-6-50      112.01
                           99.50,
192            6-8-50      99.51,
                           99.53
-              10-5-50     51.06
-              5-10-51     99.40
-              9-6-51      30.01
                           114.31,
                           114.34,
-              1-10-52     114.37,
                           114.39,
                           114.41
-              1-17-52     114.37
-              11-18-53    36.20
-              2-10-55     92.07
-              5-5-55      114.50 -
                           114.58
-              2-9-56      71.50 -
                           71.55
-              12-6-56     30.04
-              6-4-59      150.13
-              6-8-59      50.059
-              7-6-59      71.18
-              8-6-59      130.01
-              1-7-60      34.51 -
                           34.66
-              4-7-60      30.02
-              4-5-62      50.016
-              4-4-63      114.32,
                           114.34
-              10-10-63    30.05
-              9-10-64     50.007
                           36.15 -
-              3-4-65      36.17,
                           36.19
-              7-8-65      99.11
                           97.01 -
-              1-6-66      97.08,
                           97.10,
                           97.11
-              2-10-66     36.20
-              3-4-66      99.11
-              7-7-66      36.18
                           50.092,
-              8-4-66      50.095,
                           50.097 -
                           50.099
-              9-8-66      51.05
-              11-10-66    51.02
                           10.20,
-              9-7-67      34.15,
                           34.16
-              10-9-69     36.17
-              8-5-71      70.51
                           10.21,
-              6-8-72      34.01 -
                           34.05
                           34.50 -
-              6-29-72     34.52,
                           34.54,
                           34.56
-              1-4-73      114.57
-              1-10-74     36.15,
                           36.18
-              3-7-74      34.78
                           50.005 -
-              5-9-74      50.007,
                           50.016
-              7-11-74     51.16
-              12-6-74     50.005,
                           50.006
                           50.065,
-              9-4-75      50.066,
                           50.110
-              1-8-76      114.57
                           94.01 -
-              5-4-78      94.07,
                           94.99
                           100.01 -
                           100.04,
-              9-7-78      100.06,
                           100.07,
                           100.99
-              1-11-79     36.15
-              6-7-79      36.02,
                           153.01
-              10-4-79     71.05
                           113.02,
                           113.04,
-              12-6-79     113.05,
                           113.09,
                           113.19
-              5-8-80      50.065,
                           50.066
-              8-6-81      130.08
-              9-17-81     34.02
-              5-6-82      94.06
-              8-5-82      99.04,
                           99.05
-              4-14-83     99.41
-              10-6-83     96.01 -
                           96.08
-              10-4-84     37.01
-              9-12-85     71.05,
                           150.25
                           50.007,
                           50.016,
-              12-5-85     50.065,
                           50.066,
                           50.110
-              2-20-86     36.15
-              6-4-87      50.110
-              4-14-88     150.26
-              6-9-88      130.03
-              12-12-88    34.02
                           100.01 -
-              4-6-89      100.07,
                           100.99
-              5-24-89     36.15
                           50.065,
-              6-26-89     50.066,
                           50.110
-              9-14-89     130.04
-              3-7-90      114.32
-              4-5-90      50.006,
                           50.007
04-90          4-5-90      90.01 -
                           90.16
07-90          7-12-90     70.01
-              11-8-90     51.35
                           114.14,
                           114.30,
-              3-7-91      114.33 -
                           114.36,
                           114.57
-              7-11-91     154.01
-              8-8-91      Ch. 116
-              8-10-91     130.05
-              9-5-91      94.06
-              12-5-91     154.01
                           71.33 -
-              2-6-92      71.36,
                           71.99,
                           72.02
-              4-9-92      51.35,
                           70.59
-              8-6-92      Charter Secs. 3.3, 3.5, 4.18
-              9-10-92     50.065,
                           50.110
21-92          11-5-92     97.04
03-93          2-11-93     114.57
04-93          3-4-93      Ch. 38
09-93          4-8-93      94.06
                           50.065,
12-93          12-9-93     50.066,
                           50.110
13-93          7-8-93      96.16
15-93          7-8-93      50.037,
                           50.096
07-94          2-14-94     36.15
                           55.065,
13-94          6-23-94     55.066,
                           55.110
-              5-4-95      50.007,
                           50.016
-              5-4-95      50.044
-              6-22-95     50.065,
                           50.110
-              7-6-95      51.16
17-95          11-9-95     130.02
01-96          1-4-96      Charter § 3.3
                           50.065,
04-96          4-4-96      50.066,
                           50.110
06-96          6-6-96      99.18
09-96          6-20-96     50.008
-              10-10-96    70.04
                           50.65,
18-97          11-6-97     50.66,
                           50.110
-              4-9-98      50.007
-              9-10-98     38.01 -
                           38.02
2-99           2-17-99     70.53
6-99           6-24-99     51.35
11-99          11-4-99     38.01,
                           38.02
8-00           8-10-00     114.57
26-00          12-7-00     150.46
27-00          12-7-00     150.48
28-00          12-7-00     150.50
29-00          12-7-00     150.52
07-01          5-10-01     98.01
                           114.33,
11-01          8-9-01      114.34,
                           114.35
13-01          11-8-01     96.16
24-02          7-11-02     34.78
25-02          7-11-02     30.07
26-02          8-8-02      50.027
31-02          9-5-02      96.16
                           51.15,
34-02          10-10-02    51.35,
                           51.36
35-02          10-10-02    50.004
36-02          10-10-02    114.34,
                           114.41
1-03           1-9-03      70.60
                           50.065,
2-03           2-6-03      50.066,
                           50.110
4-03           4-10-03     71.22
                           52.01,
                           52.02,
                           52.05 -
                           52.13,
                           52.15 -
                           52.18,
                           52.20,
                           52.21,
                           52.25 -
5-03           5-15-03     52.37,
                           52.40 -
                           52.42,
                           52.45,
                           52.50 -
                           52.52,
                           52.55,
                           52.60 -
                           52.62,
                           52.99
8-03           8-7-03      71.22
                           50.005 -
                           50.007,
59-03          6-5-03      50.016,
                           50.021,
                           51.36
65-03          6-19-03     50.005,
                           51.35
66-03          6-19-03     71.17
67-03          7-10-03     51.36
68-03          7-10-03     151.14,
                           151.19
72-03          9-4-03      72.02
10-04          3-4-04      50.020
12-04          6-10-04     50.008
12-04          12-9-04     130.05
                           50.006,
22-04          7-1-04      50.026,
                           50.065,
                           50.110
23-04          6-24-04     51.22
25-04          7-8-04      90.02,
                           90.03
29-04          9-9-04      117.01 -
                           117.54
1-05           1-6-05      50.004
09-05          3-10-05     34.55
10-05          3-10-05     92.11
11-05          3-10-05     130.03
15-05          5-5-05      92.05,
                           92.11
29-05          6-9-05      50.006,
                           50.007
30-05          6-9-05      99.05
33-05          7-14-05     72.02
39-05          9-8-05      130.08
40-05          9-8-05      70.53
41-05          9-8-05      70.60
43-05          10-6-05     130.08
                           50.004,
                           50.005,
27 ORD 6-06    6-20-06     50.007,
                           50.016,
                           50.065,
                           50.110
28 ORD 6-06    6-20-06     51.35,
                           51.36
39 ORD 8-06    8-10-06     50.008
40 ORD 8-06    8-10-06     114.57
52 ORD 11-06   11-9-06     98.02
                           71.01,
54 ORD 12-06   12-7-06     71.12,
                           71.13,
                           72.02
04 ORD 1-07    1-4-07      72.02
15 ORD 4-07    4-5-07      98.02
                           50.016,
20 ORD 6-07    6-7-07      50.065,
                           50.110
21 ORD 6-07    6-7-07      51.35,
                           51.36
48 ORD 10-07   10-4-07     50.096
49 ORD 10-07   10-4-07     51.17,
                           51.18
                           50.001,
                           50.004,
                           50.024,
                           50.027,
                           50.057,
57 ORD 11-07   11-8-07     50.058,
                           50.059,
                           50.080,
                           50.111,
                           50.114,
                           50.115
58 ORD 11-07   11-8-07     130.07
63 ORD 12-07   12-6-07     50.027,
                           50.037
64 ORD 12-07   12-6-07     51.15
09 ORD 02-08   2-7-08      35.01 -
                           35.14
                           52.01,
                           52.02,
                           52.05 -
                           52.13,
                           52.15 -
                           52.18,
                           52.20,
                           52.21,
                           52.25 -
10 ORD 02-08   2-7-08      52.37,
                           52.40 -
                           52.42,
                           52.45,
                           52.50 -
                           52.52,
                           52.55,
                           52.60 -
                           52.62,
                           52.99
18 ORD 03-08   3-6-08      130.09
23 ORD 04-08   4-10-08     50.096
24 ORD 04-08   4-10-08     35.05
31 ORD 05-08   5-8-08      38.01
                           50.004,
39 ORD 06-08   6-24-08     50.006,
                           50.007,
                           50.110
                           51.22,
40 ORD 06-08   6-24-08     51.35,
                           51.36
46 ORD 8-08    8-7-08      130.03
53 ORD 9-08    9-4-08      130.08
54 ORD 9-08    9-4-08      70.60,
                           130.05
65 ORD 12-08   12-4-08     50.008
05 ORD 2-09    2-5-09      37.03
                           50.005 -
                           50.007,
06 ORD 2-09    2-5-09      50.020,
                           50.065,
                           50.066,
                           50.110
07 ORD. 2-09   2-5-09      34.79
08 ORD 2-09    2-19-09     50.006
                           130.01 -
                           130.03,
11 ORD 3-09    3-5-09      130.05,
                           130.06,
                           130.08,
                           130.09
12 ORD 3-09    3-5-09      34.52
14 ORD 4-09    4-9-09      130.03
38 ORD 8-09    8-6-09      96.01
41 ORD 9-09    9-10-09     50.044
                           50.001,
                           50.024,
                           50.027,
                           50.057,
42 ORD 9-09    9-10-09     50.058,
                           50.059,
                           50.080,
                           50.111,
                           50.114,
                           50.115
45 ORD 10-09   10-8-09     92.19
                           34.15,
05 ORD 1-10    1-7-10      34.16,
                           98.01,
                           98.02
07 ORD 2-10    2-4-10      130.03
10 ORD 2-10    2-4-10      70.61
28 ORD 5-10    5-6-10      113.01 -
                           113.20
32 ORD 6-10    6-24-10     31.02
                           50.065,
36 ORD 6-10    6-24-10     50.066,
                           50.104,
                           50.110
37 ORD 6-10    6-24-10     51.35,
                           51.36
47 ORD 10-10   10-7-10     130.01
49 ORD 10-10   10-7-10     71.53,
                           72.02
55 ORD 11-10   11-4-10     51.18
02 ORD 2-11    2-10-11     95.01 -
                           95.08
14 ORD 5-11    5-5-11      114.51
15 ORD 5-11    5-5-11      95.07
17 ORD 6-11    6-9-11      35.04,
                           35.07
25 ORD 7-11    7-14-11     51.22
30 ORD 9-11    9-8-11      95.06
32 ORD 10-11   10-6-11     35.09
01 ORD 1-12    1-5-12      51.21
02 ORD 2-12    2-9-12      51.21
15 ORD 6-12    6-7-12      98.03
                           50.065,
                           50.066,
19 ORD 6-12    6-28-12     50.110,
                           51.35 -
                           51.37
20 ORD 7-12    7-12-12     71.53
21 ORD 8-12    8-9-12      50.009
22 ORD 8-12    8-9-12      51.06,
                           51.24
                           52.01,
                           52.02,
                           52.05 -
                           52.13,
                           52.15 -
                           52.18,
                           52.20,
                           52.21,
                           52.25 -
31 ORD 12-12   12-6-12     52.38,
                           52.40 -
                           52.42,
                           52.45,
                           52.50 -
                           52.52,
                           52.55,
                           52.58,
                           52.60 -
                           52.62,
                           52.99
36 ORD 12-12   12-6-12     10.21
37 ORD 12-12   12-6-12     34.80,
                           34.81
01 ORD 1-13    1-10-13     34.50 -
                           34.52
06 ORD 4-13    4-4-13      50.009
07 ORD 4-13    4-4-13      96.07
                           95.01,
                           150.03,
                           150.10,
08 ORD 4-13    4-4-13      150.25,
                           150.29,
                           150.33,
                           151.12
31 ORD 11-13   11-7-13     34.51 -
                           34.53
01 ORD 3-14    3-6-14      98.01 -
                           98.04
02 ORD 3-14    3-6-14      130.03
03 ORD 3-14    3-6-14      71.04
                           50.065,
                           50.066,
13 ORD 6-14    6-26-14     50.110,
                           51.35,
                           51.36
17 ORD 7-14    7-10-14     30.07
19 ORD 8-14    8-7-14      130.01
22 ORD 12-14   12-4-14     152.01 -
                           152.22
02 ORD 1-15    1-8-15      91.01 -
                           91.33
                           50.004,
                           50.006,
                           50.007,
17 ORD 6-15    6-29-15     50.016,
                           50.104,
                           51.35,
                           51.36
                           110.01 -
                           110.07,
19 ORD 6-15    6-29-15     114.02,
                           118.01 -
                           118.03
20 ORD 8-15    8-6-15      93.01 -
                           93.15
25 ORD 11-15   11-5-15     37.01,
                           51.04
03 ORD 3-16    3-10-16     34.25 -
                           34.37
05 ORD 3-16    3-10-16     91.03,
                           91.20
                           91.03,
22 ORD 10-16   10-6-16     91.31,
                           91.32
23 ORD 11-16   11-10-16    150.01
04 ORD 2-17    2-9-17      118.01
04 ORD 1-18    1-11-18     71.99
07 ORD 4-18    4-5-18      118.04
06 ORD 3-19    3-7-19      36.15,
                           36.18
10 ORD 4-19    4-4-19      130.03
31 ORD 11-19   11-7-19     50.008
33 ORD 12-19   12-5-19     31.02
11 ORD 4-20  4-9-20      50.046
12 ORD 4-20  4-9-20      50.010,
                           50.045
13 ORD 4-20  4-9-20      93.01,
                           93.07
15 ORD 6-20  6-4-20      50.006
29 ORD 11-20   11-5-20     130.03
                           10.21,
                           10.99,
                           34.01,
                           34.51,
                           34.54,
                           34.56,
                           50.003,
                           50.019,
                           50.020,
                           50.023,
                           50.024,
                           50.026,
                           50.039,
                           50.076,
                           50.077,
                           50.102,
                           50.999,
                           51.06,
                           51.07,
                           51.21,
                           51.99,
                           70.15 -
                           70.27,
                           70.40 -
                           70.59,
                           70.61,
                           70.99,
                           71.02 -
                           71.13,
                           71.16 -
                           71.20,
                           71.22,
                           71.31,
                           71.35,
                           71.52 -
                           71.54,
                           71.99,
                           90.16,
                           91.06,
                           91.08,
                           91.11 -
                           91.16,
                           91.18,
                           91.20,
                           91.21,
                           91.23 -
                           91.30,
                           91.32,
                           92.04,
36 ORD 12-21   12-9-21     92.13 -
                           92.18,
                           92.99,
                           95.01,
                           95.02,
                           95.04,
                           95.07,
                           96.15,
                           96.16,
                           96.99,
                           97.03,
                           97.10,
                           97.11,
                           97.99,
                           98.02 -
                           98.04,
                           98.99,
                           99.03,
                           99.10,
                           99.13 -
                           99.17,
                           99.25,
                           99.27,
                           99.29,
                           99.30,
                           99.99,
                           100.04 -
                           100.06,
                           100.99,
                           130.01,
                           130.03,
                           130.05 -
                           130.09,
                           130.99,
                           150.01,
                           150.03,
                           150.29,
                           150.30,
                           150.47,
                           150.51,
                           151.01,
                           151.14,
                           151.16 -
                           151.19,
                           151.99,
                           152.02,
                           152.14 -
                           152.20,
                           152.22,
                           153.01,
                           154.01
10 ORD 5-22    5-5-22      118.05
                           50.065,
                           50.066,
36 ORD 6-22    6-28-22     50.104,
                           50.110,
                           51.35,
                           51.36
74 ORD 11-22   11-10-22    71.01,
                           72.02
1 ORD 1-23     1-5-23      118.05
3 ORD 1-23     1-5-23      34.52
4 ORD 1-23     1-5-23      150.47
46 ORD 6-23    6-26-23     51.22,
                           51.35
53 ORD 8-23    8-10-23     51.37
7 ORD 3-24     3-7-24      118.05
                           50.004,
                           50.065,
19 ORD 6-24    6-27-24     50.066,
                           50.104,
                           50.110,
                           50.116
42 ORD 11-24   11-7-24     150.25
1 ORD 1-25     1-9-25      95.03,
                           95.05
                           150.14,
2 ORD 2-25     1-9-25      150.25,
                           150.26
                          
 
 
