TOWN OF BADIN, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 12-3, passed 3-13-2018
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Badin, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the “Code of Badin, North Carolina” and may be
so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Badin, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; and, if the last
day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of Badin,
North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Stanly, North Carolina.
      EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The land lying within one mile in
all directions of the corporate limits of the town, and not located in the
corporate limits of any other municipality, nor within any part of that area
lying within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of any municipality.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GOVERNING BODY. The Town Council of Badin, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Badin.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the town.
      OFFICIALS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE. Whenever reference is made
to an OFFICIAL, a BOARD or a COMMISSION by title only, it shall be deemed to
refer to the official, board or commission of the town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STATUTE REFERENCES. Whenever reference is made, for example, to G.S. §
160A-272, it shall be construed to refer to the General Statutes of North
Carolina, Section 160A-272, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE/TIME. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Badin, in the County of Stanly, North Carolina.
      WRITING/WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.    
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following,
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof
that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed. All such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set forth at length in this code:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town;
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance;
      (17)   Any ordinance relating to Social Security and retirement benefits
for town officers and employees; and/or
      (18)   Any ordinance extending extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Governing body may omit ordinances of limited interest or transitory nature
from code, see G.S. § 160A-77(a)
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   (1)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following:
         “Section                of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Badin,
         North Carolina, is hereby amended as follows...”
      (2)   The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   (1)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be
added, language substantially similar to the following shall be used:
         “The Code of Ordinances, Town of Badin, North Carolina, is hereby
amended
         by adding a section, to be numbered                , which section
shall read as follows:...”
      (2)   The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise
      exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   The history notes following sections and the references scattered
throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the benefit of
the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless a greater amount is specified in an ordinance, an act constituting a
violation of the provisions of any ordinance or a failure to comply with any of
its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $50, which
includes administrative fees. Each day any single violation continues shall be
a separate violation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in an ordinance, a
violation shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 14-4. If the
offender fails to correct a violation by the prescribed deadline after being
notified of said violation, the penalty may be recovered in a civil action in
the nature of a debt.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
30.01   Creation
   
30.02   Composition and vacancies
   
30.03   Organization; rules; meetings and records
   
30.04   Expenditures; incurring indebtedness; donations
   
30.05   Powers and duties
PLANNING BOARD
§ 30.01 CREATION.
   The Town Council hereby establishes the Town Planning Board, under the
authority granted by G.S. § 160A-361. The Board shall constitute, function and
may be referred to as the “Badin Planning Board”.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 2-9-1993)
§ 30.02 COMPOSITION AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, shall
consist of three members. All members of the Board shall be citizens and
residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Town Council. The initial
appointments to the Board shall be made as follows: two members shall be
appointed for a term of three years and one member shall be appointed for a
term of years. As the terms of these three members expire, new appointments for
terms of three years shall be made by the Town Council.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy on the Planning Board, the Town Council
shall appoint a new member to fill the unexpired term of the vacated position.
   (C)   All members of the Planning Board shall have equal rights, privileges
and duties. Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while representing the Planning Board. Regular attendance of
the meetings of the Board is considered a prerequisite for maintenance of
membership of the Board. If a member is absent from more than three consecutive
meetings, the member may be replaced at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (D)   The Town Zoning Administrator shall serve as a non-voting, ex officio
member of the Planning Board.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 2-9-1993)
§ 30.03 ORGANIZATION; RULES; MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from among its regular members, both of whom shall serve for terms
of one year or until re-elected or until their successors are elected. The
Board shall appoint a Secretary, who may be a municipal officer or employee of
the town or a member of the Board and who shall hold office during the term of
the Chairperson and/or until a successor Secretary shall have been appointed.
The Board may create and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business which
are consistent with this subchapter as well as with the general statutes of the
state and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance, and of its
resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be a
public record. The Board shall schedule at least one meeting monthly and all of
its meetings shall be open to the public. There shall be a quorum of two Board
members for the purpose of taking any kind of official action required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 2-9-1993)
§ 30.04 EXPENDITURES; INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS; DONATIONS.
   The expenditures of the Planning Board, exclusive of gifts or grants, shall
be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Town Council, and no
indebtedness for which the town shall be liable shall be contracted or incurred
by the said Board unless an appropriation is made by the Town Council for such
purpose, as authorized by law, and then only to the extent of such
appropriation. The Board shall have the right to accept gifts and donations for
the exercise of its functions, and may expend the money received from such
gifts and donations in a manner which, in the judgment of the Board, is
consistent with the best interest of the planning program.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 2-9-1993)
§ 30.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to perform the following duties:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Town Council concerning the use and amendment of means for
carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Town Council may direct;
   (G)   Review and make recommendations to the Town Council: upon the extent,
location and design of all public structures and facilities; on the acquisition
and disposal of public properties; on the opening, abandonment, widening,
extension, narrowing or other change to streets and other public ways; and on
the construction, extension, expansion or abandonment of utilities. The
Planning Board shall work with and coordinate other boards and advisory groups
as directed by Town Council; and
   (H)   Perform any other related duties that the Town Council may direct.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 2-9-1993)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
[Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   All town-maintained residential streets have the set speed limit of 20 mph
assigned to them.
(Ord. 09-5, passed 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Non-Motorized Vehicles and Skateboards
   
71.01   Declaration and policy statements
   
71.02   Definition
   
71.03   Rules and regulations
Golf Carts
   
71.15   Policy statement
   
71.16   Rules and regulations
   
71.17   Permit stickers; registration form
   
71.18   Approval required
NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 71.01 DECLARATION AND POLICY STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. The
town, by regulating such operation, is merely addressing safety issues. This
subchapter is not to be relied upon as a determination that operation on
streets is safe or advisable, even if done in accordance with this subchapter.
      (2)   All persons operating non-motorized recreation vehicles or
skateboards must be observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and
others, including their passengers, motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians.
   (B)   (1)   All persons who operate or ride non-motorized recreation
vehicles or skateboards on streets inside the town do so at their own risk and
peril.
      (2)   The town has no liability, under any theory of liability, regarding
the use of non-motorized vehicles.
(Ord. 12-3, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 71.02 DEFINITION.
   A NON-MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLE is a vehicle used in certain recreational
activities, such as skateboarding or freestyle bicycling. For the purposes of
this subchapter, NON-MOTORIZED RECREATION VEHICLES include, but are not limited
to, skateboards, freestyle bicycles, scooters, coasters, roller skates, roller
blades, sleds, soap box cars and any other contraption fitting a description
similar to the aforementioned items.
(Ord. 12-3, passed 3-13-2018)
§ 71.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Non-motorized recreation vehicles are hereby regulated in accordance with
the following rules and guidelines.
   (A)   Careless and reckless behavior on any public property, street, alley
or way is prohibited.
   (B)   Any person who persists in operating a non-motorized vehicle within
the incorporated limits of the town takes full responsibility for all liability
associated with its operation and is subject to legal enforcement.
   (C)   Use of non-motorized recreation vehicles on streets is expressly
prohibited from dusk to dawn without reflective safety equipment.
   (D)   Any person participating in a recreational activity when operating a
non-motorized recreation vehicle in a town park is required to be wearing a
helmet professionally intended for recreational safety, elbow pads and knee
pads.
   (E)   Non-motorized recreation vehicles may not be driven or otherwise
operated on N.C. Hwy. 740 in the town.
   (F)   Any person who operates a non-motorized recreation vehicle in the town
must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and all other illegal drugs, as well as all traffic and
other state laws.
   (G)   Non-motorized recreation vehicles must yield the right-of-way to any
and all overtaking vehicles, at all times.
   (H)   Non-motorized recreation vehicles are prohibited from operation on the
sidewalks on the west side of Roosevelt Street in the General Business District
(G-B) and the north side of Falls Road in the Central Business District (C-B)
within the incorporated limits of the town.
   (I)   Town-owned and other real property and parcels where use of non-
motorized recreation vehicles is prohibited includes, but is not limited to:
Town Hall; Police Department; Public Works facilities; Vann Memorial Library;
Vann Memorial Gazebo; Josephine Nelson Memorial Park; Badin Historic Museum;
Badin Fire House Museum; and Badin Quadruplex Museum.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person riding a bicycle, sled, roller
skates, skateboard or any non- motorized vehicle to attach it or himself or
herself to a vehicle which is in motion on a street or any public property.
(Ord. 12-3, passed 3-13-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.15 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This subchapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts,
hereinafter “cart(s)”, are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets and roads, hereinafter “street(s)”, and the town in no way advocates or
endorses their operation on streets. The town, by regulating such operation, is
merely addressing safety issues. This subchapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this subchapter. All persons operating golf carts must be
observant of, and attentive to, the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons who
operate or ride carts on streets inside the town do so at their own risk and
peril. The town has no liability, under any theory of liability, for permitting
carts to be operated on streets under the special legislation granted by the
state legislature, but governed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 07-1, passed - -2007)
§ 71.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Carts may only be operated on streets within the town in accordance with the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Any person who operates a cart in the town takes full responsible for
all liability associated with operating the cart.
   (B)   Any person who operates a cart must be at least 16 years of age or
older.
   (C)   Carts may be driven on streets only from dawn to dusk, unless the cart
is equipped with manufactured headlights, turn signals and brake lights that
have been approved by the Chief of Police.
   (D)   Carts may only be driven on Hwy. 740 and/or Valley Drive in the town,
at marked golf cart crossings. All other areas of Hwy. 740 and/or Valley Drive
are prohibited.
   (E)   Carts must be equipped with a rear vision mirror and at least two rear
reflectors. Red rear reflectors must be at least three inches in height and at
least three inches in width.
   (F)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets in the town must adhere
to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages, and all other illegal drugs, as well as all other state traffic
laws.
   (G)   Cart drivers must yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles, at
all times.
   (H)   (1)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on streets will be one
person per bucket seat or two people per bench seat.
      (2)   Children must be properly seated while a cart is in motion and may
not be transported in a negligent manner.
   (I)   Carts are not allowed to be driven on any sidewalks in the town,
unless otherwise designated by proper signage approved by Town Manager.
   (J)   Carts are only allowed to park in handicapped parking spaces if the
driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking sticker.
(Ord. 07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 PERMIT STICKERS; REGISTRATION FORM.
   (A)   All carts operated on the streets must have a valid permit sticker
from the town’s Police Department. A yearly fee of $10 per cart will be charged
by the town’s Police Department for this permit sticker and to cover the costs
of implementing and maintaining this subchapter. The town’s Police Chief
retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit sticker from any
cart at any time for any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to ensure
the safety and well-being of the citizens of the town.
   (B)   Golf cart owners must complete a registration form. The completed
forms will be maintained by the town’s Police Department. The town’s Police
Department will issue visible proof of compliance that must be attached to
driver’s side of the cart.
(Ord. 07-1, passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.18 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   In all cases, the town’s Police Chief and/or the Town Manager, and/or
their designees, must approve the use of carts on streets in the town.
   (B)   The above fees and requirements may be waived for a temporary time
frame (up to five days) by the Town Police Chief and/or the Town Manager for
events being held within the town.
   (C)   The Town Police Department’s interpretation of the above rules and
regulations are final.
(Ord. 07-1, passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited and restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED PARKING.
Street Location/Side(s) Special Provisions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street     Location/Side  Special Provisions                                                 Ord. Date
           (s)                                                                               No.  Passed
                          Town Council prohibits commercial truck parking, (a COMMERCIAL
                          TRUCK being defined as any vehicle over 8,000 pounds that is used
                          for any type of commercial enterprise), and anything not self-
                          propelled on the streets in the town; Pursuant to the provisions
                          of Article 15, specifically including G.S. §§ 160A-296 and 160A-
           In a           300 and other applicable law
           residential    It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing within a            99-7 12-14-
           zone           residential zone, any commercial truck or trailer on any street         1999
                          from 6:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
                          It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing within a
                          residential zone, anything not self-propelled on any street
                          overnight
                          Vehicles left parked or standing in a prohibited area as a result
                          of emergency stop shall not be in violation of this schedule
Cherry                   Parking allowed only where curbside exists                         05-  10-11-
Street                                                                                       10   2005
           North side;
           from the
           corner of
           Falls Road and
Falls Road Yadkin Court                                                                     05-9 10-11-
           traveling east                                                                         2005
           to the corner
           of Falls Road
           and Spruce
           Street
           Both sides;
           from the
           corner of
           Falls Road and
Falls Road Spruce Street                                                                    05-9 10-11-
           traveling east                                                                         2005
           to the corner
           of Falls Road
           and Stanly
           Street
           East side;
           from the end
           of the school
Henderson  lane to the                                                                            12-14-
Street     corner of                                                                        04-8 2004
           Henderson
           Street and
           Nanatahala
           Street
Lincoln    Both sides                                                                       04-5 10-12-
Street                                                                                            2004
           West side;
           from the
           corner of
           Maple Street
Maple      and Nantahala                                                                    05-2 2-8-
Street     Street                                                                                 2005
           traveling
           south to the
           first alleyway
           on the right
           South side;
           from the
           corner of
           Nantahala
Nantahala  Street and                                                                             11-9-
Street     Boyden Street                                                                    04-7 2004
           traveling east
           to the corner
           of Nantahala
           Street and
           Maple Street
           South side;
           from the
Pine       corner of                                                                              4-13-
Street     Cedar Street                                                                     04-1 2004
           to the corner
           of Spruce
           Street
           East side; all
           traffic
           islands in
Roosevelt  between from                                                                           5-14-
Street     the corner of  Traffic cones will be placed no closer                             02-5 2002
           Washington
           Street and
           Roosevelt
           Street
           Sumpter and
           Roosevelt      The restrictions include allowance for no more than 7-, 8-foot-
           Street, to the wide, 15-feet long, diagonal parking spaces in front of the
           southern end   commercial block. The first parking space shall be placed no
Roosevelt  of the         closer than 15 feet from the south corner of the intersection of
Street     commercial     Sumpter and Roosevelt Streets. The last parking space shall be
           block anchored placed no closer than 10 feet from the southern end of the
           by 507         commercial block. One of the parking spaces shall be designated
           Roosevelt      for handicap parking only
           Street.
           Northeast
           side; from the
           corner of Mayo
Sherman    Street and                                                                             11-9-
Street     Sherman Street Parking allowed on the southwest side (sidewalk side)              04-6 2004
           to the corner
           of Lincoln
           Street and
           Sherman Street
           Northeast
           side; from the
           last driveway
           at 127 Spruce
Spruce     Street running                                                                         5-11-
Street     southwest to                                                                     99-4 1999
           the first
           bridge
           (approximately
           88 feet in
           length)
           Northwest
           side; from the
           corner of
           Spruce Street
Spruce     and Falls Road                                                                   92-  11-10-
Street     running                                                                           14   1992
           southwest to
           the first
           bridge that is
           crossed
           East side;
           from the
           corner of
           Walnut Street
Walnut     and Falls Road                                                                         1-11-
Street     traveling 155                                                                    00-1 2000
           feet northeast
           toward
           Chestnut to
           the end of the
           sidewalk
           South side;
           from the
Walnut     corner of                                                                        02-4 5-14-
Street     Hickory Street                                                                         2002
           to the corner
           of Pine Street
           Northwest
           side; from the
           corner of
           Sherman Street
Washington and Washington                                                                    92-  10-13-
Street     Street running                                                                   12   1992
           northeast to
           the corner of
           Dewey Street
           and Washington
           Street
           Southeast
           side; from the
           corner of
           Dewey Street
           and Washington
Washington Street running                                                                   92-  10-13-
Street     northeast to                                                                      12   1992
           the corner of
           Roosevelt
           Street and
           Washington
           Street
           South side;
           from the
           corner of
           Maple Street
Willow     and Willow                                                                             7-12-
Street     Street                                                                           94-6 1994
           traveling east
           to the corner
           of Spruce
           Street and
           Willow Street
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   SMOKING IN TOWN BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Horses on sidewalks
Confinement and Seizure
   
90.15   Circumstances requiring special preventive measures
   
90.16   Preventive measures
   
90.17   Written order
   
90.18   Failure to comply with written order
   
90.19   Owner’s challenge to written order
   
90.20   Special condition of probation for certain drug offenders; size
limitation
   
90.21   Seizure and disposition of animal
   
90.22   Dogs at large; confinement
   
90.23   Domestic fowl
   
90.24   Prohibited animals
   
90.25   Bird sanctuary
   
90.26   Interference with authority
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 HORSES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person having custody of a horse to allow
or permit said horse to enter or remain upon any public sidewalk within the
municipal limits of the town.
   (B)   The term PERSON HAVING CUSTODY OF A HORSE shall be deemed to include
any person riding, guiding or leading a horse, any owner or other person having
permanent or temporary custody of a horse, any person into whose custody a
horse has been placed or any person having control of a horse.
(Ord. 96-5, passed 11-12-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONFINEMENT AND SEIZURE
§ 90.15 CIRCUMSTANCES REQUIRING SPECIAL PREVENTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   Any officer of the Town Police Department shall have the authority to
require the owner or custodian of a dog to comply with specific preventive
measures, as described in §
90.16 of this chapter, after taking into consideration the following three
circumstances. This provision shall not limit the authority of the Town Police
Department to declare any animal vicious and order its removal from the town
limits:
      (1)   Nature of the particular dog. The behavior, size, temperament,
breed, capacity for inflicting serious injury, the number of dogs or other such
similar factors which would be relevant to a determination of whether or not
additional preventive measures need to be imposed for a particular situation;
      (2)   Adequacy of confinement. The adequacy of the enclosure or
confinement, if any; and
      (3)   Immediate surrounding area. The likelihood that the conditions
pertaining to the particular dog and the dog’s confinement are detrimental to
the safety or welfare of citizens or the peace and tranquility of citizens in
the immediate surround area.
         (a)   A person who knowingly restrains a dog using a chain or wire
grossly in excess of the size or weight necessary to restrain the dog safely or
other type of tethering device in violation of this section is subject to legal
enforcement action.
         (b)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain a dog, or
cause the restraining of a dog, to a tree, fence, post, stake, dog house or
other stationary object for more than nine hours in a 24-hour period. During
periods of tethering that are not unlawful under this section, any tethering
device used shall be at least 15 feet in length and attached in such manner as
to prevent strangulation or other injury to the dog and prevent entanglement
with objects stationary or otherwise. Further, any device to which a dog is
tethered must allow the dog otherwise unrestricted motion without entanglement
to said device.
         (c)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain a dog, or
cause restraining of a dog, to a tree, fence, post, stake, dog house or other
stationary object on the street-facing, front section, front parcel, front yard
or front porch of the dog owner’s property.
         (d)   No person shall confine a dog in such a way that causes the dog
to affect or impede any public walkway, thoroughfare, gathering area or any
property not owned and controlled by the dog owner.
         (e)   No person shall attach a chain or wire or other tethering device
to, cause such attachment to, a choke-type or pronged collar on a dog.
         (f)   No person shall confine a dog in a manner that does not allow
the dog access to potable water and adequate shelter and shade.
         (g)   Notwithstanding the provisions hereof, a person may, subject to
the provisions of divisions (A)(3)(c) and (A)(3)(d) above:
            1.   Tether and restrain a dog while actively engaged in:
               a.   Use of the dog in shepherding or herding livestock;
               b.   Use of the dog in the business of cultivating agricultural
products, if the restraining is reasonably necessary for the safety of the dog;
or
               c.   Use of the dog in lawful hunting activities if the
restraint is reasonably necessary for the safety of the dog.
            2.   After taking possession of a dog that appears to be a stray
dog and after having advised animal control authorities of the capture of the
dog, tether and restrain the dog during such time as the person having taken
possession of the dog is seeking the identity of the owner of the dog; and
            3.   Walk a dog with a handheld leash.
         (h)   Restraining a dog in a manner prohibited by this section
constitutes cruelty, as defined in G.S. § 19A-1(2), and violates humane care of
animals, as defined in County Animal Control Ord. 82-4.
   (B)   In considering whether to order a special preventive measure, an
officer of the Town Police Department is authorized to consider additional
factors as aggravating circumstances that might warrant the ordering of special
preventive measures:
      (1)   Child under the age of seven. There is a child under the age of
seven who lives in such close proximity, or children walk by or are otherwise
in close proximity, to the property occupied by the dog;
      (2)   Bite. The dog has bitten a human being or domestic animal without
provocation or without a trespass, and the person bitten does not ordinarily
reside on the premises;
      (3)   Dog trained for fighting or aggressive attack. The dog is kept
primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dog-fighting or the dog has been
trained for aggressive attacks;
      (4)   Attitude of attack incident. A dog, without provocation or a
trespass, has approached a person in an apparent attitude of attack;
      (5)   Reputation of a dog. The individual dog has a known propensity,
reputation or tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or
to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; or
      (6)   Dangerous animals. Any animal whose behavior constitutes a
reasonable risk of injuring a human or animal or damaging personal property.
That behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal’s biting or attacking
or attempting to attack a human or another animal. However, this definition
shall not apply to any animal that has been subject to provocation or if the
victim has been trespassing, as defined herein, upon the animal owner’s
premises.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 PREVENTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   If the Police Chief determines that the circumstances require special
preventive measures, then the Town Police Department shall have the authority
to require appropriate, specific preventive measures which might include, but
are not limited to, the following: necessary repairs for any fence or
enclosure, measures to ensure that a gate will remain closed, a “fence” or
“secure dog fence”, as described below, or any other similar device such as
electronic electric fence that would provide greater assurance for the
confinement of the dog, all of which are subject to being specifically approved
for their adequacy by the Town Police Department.
   (B)   A fence shall be at least a minimum of four feet high and constitute a
secure-enough enclosure sufficient to contain the dog at all times. The minimum
size of the enclosure may be at least 120 square feet. If the dog is over 15
inches at the shoulder or deemed capable of climbing a standard four-foot
fence, then the Police Chief may require a six-foot fence or may require up to
a 160-square-foot enclosure. The location of the enclosure shall be at the
approval of the Police Chief.
   (C)   A SECURE DOG FENCE means a fence, as immediately described above, that
may also be enclosed on all six sides including the top. The bottom may be
concrete unless the sides of the fence are buried one foot deep in a hard
packed soil. Any reference to “fence” or “secure dog fence” shall be defined as
stated in division (B) above.
   (D)   The Town Police Department shall also have the authority to require
the owner to tattoo the dog at the owner’s expense if that is necessary for
identification, investigative or enforcement purposes.
   (E)   The Town Police Department shall have the authority to require the
owner to procure liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 at the
owner’s expense, or to have the dog tattooed or to display a sign on the
premises warning of the dog on the premises.
   (F)   The Department shall have the authority to require the owner to show
signed written statements about maintaining the liability insurance, the
designated enclosure for the dogs and the duty to notify the Town Police
Department if the dog escapes, and to require the owner to give the Town Police
Department the authority to seize and impound the dog if the owner fails to
comply with the provisions.
   (G)   The Police Chief shall have the authority to waive any or all of these
requirements if the Chief determines that a bite is inconsequential or that
there is no necessity for action.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 WRITTEN ORDER.
   If the Police Chief determines that specific preventive measures must be
complied with by the owner of a dog, the Town Police Department shall make
reasonable efforts to notify the owner of the written order, state the reasons
that preventive measures are required, identify the specific preventive
measures that must be implemented and state the designated time period within
which to comply with the written order. The Town Police Department shall have
the authority to exercise discretion for extensions of time if that is
reasonable in view of the good-faith progress of the owner in implementing the
preventive measures.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 90.18 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH WRITTEN ORDER.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to comply with a written order
within the designated time for compliance stated in the written order or any
extension thereof.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 OWNER’S CHALLENGE TO WRITTEN ORDER.
   (A)   (1)   The owner may submit in writing a challenge to the Town Police
Department’s determination that §
90.15 of this chapter is applicable to the owner’s premises or submit in
writing a challenge to the specific preventive measures required by the
Division.
      (2)   The owner’s written challenge must be received at the office of the
Town Manager at 36 Falls Road, during normal working hours, five days from the
date of the written order, not counting the day of issuance of the written
order.
      (3)   The Town Manager or a designee shall review the written challenge.
The review of the challenge may be done on the basis of the written material
and information received from the Town Police Department regarding the order.
   (B)   The person reviewing the challenge shall have the authority to make
findings of fact and conclusions in respect to the written order. The decision,
the written order and any findings of fact and conclusions shall be final with
the only other appeal made to the general courts of the state.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 90.20 SPECIAL CONDITION OF PROBATION FOR CERTAIN DRUG OFFENDERS; SIZE
LIMITATION.
   (A)   As a special condition of probation, a defendant who is convicted of a
felony offense under G.S. § 90-95 and who is sentenced to community punishment,
intermediate punishment or other incarceration or probation shall not possess a
dog that weighs more than 14 pounds and shall not possess a dog that weighs
more than 14 pounds either on the premises of his or her residence or dwelling
or in a motor vehicle that the defendant is driving.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, it is unlawful for
any person who is convicted of a felony under G.S. § 90-95 to do any of the
following:
         (a)   Possess a dog that weighs more than 14 pounds; or
         (b)   Possess a dog that weighs more than 14 pounds either on the
premises of his or her residence or dwelling or in a motor vehicle that he or
she is driving. The prohibition imposed by this section applies for a period of
six years after the person has completed the sentence imposed on the person for
the felony conviction under G.S. § 90-95.
      (2)   In addition to any penalty imposed when a person is convicted of a
violation of this section, the six-year prohibition imposed under division (B)
(1) above shall restart and shall run a full six years from the date of the
person’s conviction under this section.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMAL.
   The Town Police Department is authorized to request County Animal Control to
seize any animal in violation as provided.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017)
§ 90.22 DOGS AT LARGE; CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AT LARGE. Any dog out of compliance with §
90.15 of this chapter and not under physical restraint.
      DOG. Any and all domestic canines.
      IN ESTRUS. A female dog in what is commonly called “heat”.
      NIGHTTIME. The time from one hour after sunset until one hour before
sunrise.
      OWNER. Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge or taking care of any animal or allowing any
animal to remain on his, her or their property for 120 hours.
      OWNER’S PROPERTY. The owner’s property is that area described in a deed
of conveyance or the area described in a lease. In a situation involving
townhouses or condominiums, Animal Control will treat the “common areas” as
being owned by the homeowner’s association. In a situation involving leased
apartments, animal control will treat the “common areas”, as being owned by the
lessor/property owner.
      PRIOR COMPLAINTS. Any prior verbal or written complaint to Animal Control
about a specific dog being at large, or any verbal or written complaint about
any dogs of an owner being at large, shall constitute a PRIOR COMPLAINT.
      RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT if it is:
         (a)   Inside a secure enclosure that is size appropriate for the dog
contained with sides of sufficient height and depth to prevent the animal from
jumping, climbing or digging out of the enclosure;
         (b)   Inside the primary residence of the owner/harborer when on the
owner’s/harborer’s property;
         (c)   Controlled by a leash of sufficient means to restrain the dog
and under control of a competent person when outside a secure enclosure or
home;
         (d)   Inside an area on the owner’s property secured by a functional,
properly maintained electronic fencing device;
         (e)   Within the passenger area of a vehicle, restrained in a safe
manner to prevent the dog from jumping over the sides or out of an open bed
truck, or in a secure enclosure on a vehicle or trailer;
         (f)   Under the control of a licensed hunter while said dog is in the
act of hunting or training for hunting, as regulated by the state’s Wildlife
Resources Commission;
         (g)   Participating in an animal show, competition or field trial;
         (h)   Sufficiently near the owner or a competent handler on the
owner’s property to be under his or her direct control while playing with or
socializing with the dog and the dog is obedient to that person’s commands;
         (i)   Tethered by means of a size appropriate chain, cable or like
device not less than eight feet in length with swivel fasteners at both ends of
the tether. Tethers shall be fastened to a collar (not choke or pinch collar)
or harness on the dog and attached to a D-ring on the collar or harness. It
shall be unlawful to tether a dog in such a manner as to cause injury or pain
or not permit it to reach shelter, food and water; or
         (j)   On the owner’s property that is three acres or greater and
remains under the control of its owner on that parcel of land. Under these
conditions, the dog does not have to be actively restrained by means of a
fence, tether or other secure enclosure if control can be maintained and the
dog is restricted to the owner’s property.
   (B)   Authority. An animal control officer may, at his or her discretion,
order a more restrictive restraint requirement if circumstances require and it
is not detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the dog.
   (C)   Exemptions. Exemptions to this section are law enforcement working
canines, service dogs, search and rescue dogs and HRD (human remains detection)
dogs.
   (D)   Private remedies. Nothing in this section shall prevent a private
citizen from suing the owner of a dog, which has caused injury to said private
citizen or his or her property, for damages or any other loss resulting from a
dog being at large.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 DOMESTIC FOWL.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section that persons within the town
be permitted to keep chickens or other domestic fowl for personal consumption
of eggs.
   (B)   Number and type limited. A maximum of four domestic chicken or other
fowl hens may be allowed on a single-family lot within residential zoning
districts only. Roosters are prohibited.
   (C)   Coop required. All fowl must be kept in a secure enclosure (a “coop”)
during non-daylight hours. The coop must be appropriately sized for the number
and type of hens. Coops must be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all
times and must be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent offensive odors. During
daylight hours, chickens may be located in a pen. Chickens are not permitted to
roam freely in such a manner that they are able to leave the premises of the
owner. Coops and pens must be located within the rear or side yard and must
meet the minimum setback requirements for accessory buildings within the zoning
district.
   (D)   Feed stock storage. Feed stock shall be stored in a sealed container
that is secure against invasion by rodents and other animals.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.24 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   ANIMALS shall be defined, as referenced in this section, as any
organisms of the animal kingdom, except human beings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep non-domestic animals
within the town. Non-domestic animals shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: pigs; hogs; sheep; cattle; goats; mules; horses; or other livestock.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.25 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area within the corporate limits of the town is designated
as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot or attempt to molest in any
manner any bird or wild fowl or its or their nests.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.26 INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest an
employee of the town, County Animal Control or any other person duly authorized
by this subchapter while in the performance of duty. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to seek release, attempt to release or to release any animal in
the custody of the town or County Animal Control, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this subchapter. The town or animal control officer
may initiate the issuance of a criminal warrant for any person violating this
subchapter.
(Ord. 17-3, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
91.01   Declaration of public nuisances
   
91.02   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance
   
91.03   Abatement procedure
   
91.04   Procedure is alternative
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and are found, deemed and declared to be public
nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the creation, maintenance or
failure to abate any nuisance is hereby declared unlawful:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than 12
inches above the surrounding ground; provided that, the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants;
   (B)   Any accumulation of trash and/or garbage which is the result of the
absence or of overflowing or improperly closed trash or garbage containers;
   (C)   Accumulation in an open place of hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals;
   (D)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, old clothes, rags or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature;
   (E)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or vermin prejudicial to
the public health;
   (F)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (G)   The open storage or public accessibility of any discarded ice box,
furniture, refrigerator, stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or
similar items;
   (H)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Town Manager or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises; and
   (I)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 12-1, passed 1-10-2012)
§ 91.02 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   When any condition in violation of this subchapter is found to exist,
the Enforcement Official or such persons as may be designated by the Town
Manager, or the Town Manager, himself or herself, shall give notice to the
owner of the premises to abate or remove such conditions within ten days. Such
notice shall be in writing, shall include a description of the premises
sufficient for identification and shall set forth the violation and state that,
if the violation is not corrected within ten days, the town may proceed to
correct the same as authorized by this section. The Town Police Chief may, in
certain cases, declare a violation to be an extreme nuisance condition or
public health risk and require no less than 24 hours for immediate abatement of
the violation.
   (B)   Service of such notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner;
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by the methods listed in divisions (B)(1)
and (B)(2) above.
(Ord. 12-1, passed 1-10-2012)
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this section, within ten days after the service of such notice, he or she shall
be subject to prosecution for violation of this subchapter in accordance with
law and each day that such failure continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Town Manager may have the condition described in the notice
abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall
be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall be collected
as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall constitute a lien
against the property on which the work was done.
(Ord. 12-1, passed 1-10-2012)
§ 91.04 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this subchapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this subchapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this subchapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 12-1, passed 1-10-2012)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Administration
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
92.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles pre-towing
notice requirements
   
92.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirements
   
92.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
92.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
92.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
92.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
92.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
92.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
92.14   Exceptions
   
92.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
92.16   Alternative remedies
§ 92.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Town Manager shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and highways within the town
and on property owned by the town. The Town Manager shall be responsible for
administering the removal and disposition of “abandoned”, “nuisance” or “junked
motor vehicles” located on private property. The town may, on an annual basis,
contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store
and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles
in compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the town’s Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, a vehicle
that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Manager, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self- propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be “abandoned”, as
the term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle, as defined in
this chapter, after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing
the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such
findings shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other relevant
factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances; provided, the junked motor vehicle is
entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or abutting
premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60 calendar days. Junked
motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar days shall be kept
inside a completely enclosed building. The Town Manager has the authority to
determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required
by this provision. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be
allowed to deteriorate; and
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Except as set forth in §
92.07 of this chapter, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered
owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is
located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice
shall be given by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall
retain a written record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed and
the date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the
vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by
affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a
notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified
date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the
vehicle is moved by the legal owner or legal possessor prior to that time. With
respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance vehicles and junked
motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the registered owner
or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle, but chooses to
appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a nuisance vehicle or
in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic benefits of removing
the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be made to the Town Council
in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Town Council,
and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal
is heard and decided.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.
         (a)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-
owned property other than the streets and highways and, on private property,
such vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those
circumstances where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt
action to protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   By ways of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, to be removed to a storage garage or area
by the tow truck operator or towering business contracting to perform such
services for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, such notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and such
vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing town
official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of this information set forth in divisions (A)
(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. §§ 20-219.11 et al., as amended.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of such a vehicle shall be earned out in coordination with
the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Manager. The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automatic graveyard” or “junkyard”,
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S.
§§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 92.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.16 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of the terms
of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and remedies,
either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 05-4, passed 4-12-2005)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Burning leaves, timber, trash and the like
   
93.02   Open burn permit required
§ 93.01 BURNING LEAVES, TIMBER, TRASH AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The burning of leaves within the corporate limits of the town is
prohibited.
   (B)   The burning of brush, limbs, cut timber, trash or debris on any public
right-of-way or facility, including any street, sidewalk, gutter, alleyway,
park or any other property owned by the town, is prohibited.
   (C)   The burning of brush, limbs, cut timber, trash or debris within 100
feet of any structure within the corporate limits of the town is prohibited
unless such burning takes place within a confined enclosure which is designed
and adequate to prevent the escape of fire. The unattended burning of any
brush, limbs, cut timber, trash or debris within the corporate limits of the
town is prohibited.
   (D)   The burning of any brush, limbs, cut timber, trash or debris after
dark within the corporate limits of the town is prohibited.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 2-8-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 OPEN BURN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No burning shall take place within the corporate limits of the town if an
open burning permit is required under state law unless such open burning permit
is first obtained from a State Forester, an authorized member of the Town
Volunteer Fire Department or other authorized person. No town permit shall be
required.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 2-8-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: SMOKING IN TOWN BUILDINGS
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Smoking regulated in town buildings and vehicles
   
94.03   Posting signs
   
94.04   Exemptions
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   SMOKING shall mean the inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying of a lighted
pipe, cigar, cigarette or other combustible tobacco product.
(Ord. 93-9, passed 10-12-1993)
§ 94.02 SMOKING REGULATED IN TOWN BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any building or
facility or portion of a building or facility now or hereafter owned, leased,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any vehicle now or
hereafter owned or leased by the town unless all occupants or passengers use
smoking materials and all consent.
(Ord. 93-9, passed 10-12-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Town Manager shall cause each building to be posted with appropriate
signs indicating that smoking is prohibited. Such signs shall be posted in a
conspicuous place designed to give notice to the public as well as to
employees.
(Ord. 93-9, passed 10-12-1993)
§ 94.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   In town-owned buildings or facilities leased to and occupied by
others; and
   (B)   In open air sheds or similar facilities where “smoking permitted”
signs have been placed.
(Ord. 93-9, passed 10-12-1993)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   SPECIAL EVENTS AND PARADES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Sunday sales
§ 110.01 SUNDAY SALES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by S.L. 2017-87, any establishment located
in the corporate limits of and holding an ABC permit issued pursuant to G.S. §
18B-1001 is permitted to sell beverages allowed by its permit beginning at 10:
00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 17-4, passed 9-12-2017)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIAL EVENTS AND PARADES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Permit required
   
111.03   Permit requirements; issuance of permit
   
111.04   Permit standards; denial; notice
   
111.05   Activities prohibited
   
111.06   Picket requirements
   
111.07   Alcoholic beverages on public property; consumption; minors
   
111.08   Exceptions
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume
including, but not limited to, malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified
wine, spirituous liquor and mixed beverages.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   FORTIFIED WINE. Any wine, of more than 16% and no more than 24% alcohol by
volume, made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice or honey; or by
the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure
brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice or honey that is
contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of
the United States.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter and any other brewed or
fermented beverage containing at least 0.5%, and not more than 15%, alcohol by
volume. Any MALT BEVERAGE containing more than 6% alcohol by volume shall bear
a label clearly indicating the alcohol content of the malt beverage.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or on the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PERMIT OFFICIAL. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall serve as the
permitting official.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
   PRIVATE EVENTS. Events open to a limited population based on age, membership
or other pre- qualifying characteristic.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Land and/or structures owned and operated by a private
individual(s), company, social organization or other entity that is not a
governmental organization.
   PUBLIC EVENTS. Events open to the general public with or without an entrance
cost, without any type of prerequisite, membership or qualifying
characteristic.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Land and/or structures owned and operated by a government
entity, including county facilities in and near town, the use of which may have
an impact on town streets and services.
   STREET EVENT. Any public or private event that requires the closure or
partial closure of a public street, right-of-way or involves participants
walking, bicycling or otherwise traveling within the street right- of-way in a
volume, concentration, duration or other manner greater than routine daily use.
   TOWN-SPONSORED EVENT. Any event partially or wholly sponsored by the town
with any use of uncompensated town services beyond that of public safety or
other similar services.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Any wine of 16% or less alcohol by volume, made by
fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice or honey; or by the addition of
pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from the
same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice or honey that is contained in the base
wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of the United States.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 111.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to organize, conduct or
participate in any public assembly, parade, picket line or group demonstration
in or on any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place within the town
unless a special event permit therefor has been issued by the town in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, with the exception of the town
in town-sponsored events unless a street closure is requested. Only civic,
religious and non-profit organizations are eligible for permits; no individual
will be granted a permit for individual or personal use. A recurring organized
sporting event (such as an organized walking/running event) that does not
require town services (including the closure of streets) may apply for all
events within a six-month time span on one permit application with one permit
fee per application.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager, Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits
and, in the issuance thereof, he or she shall do the following:
   (A)   Require a written application for the permit in the prescribed form to
be filed within an acceptable time period determined by the permit official for
all special events consisting of festivals, concerts, performances, block
parties and other such public assembly events that may, but not necessarily,
require a partial or full street closure. The permit official shall consider an
application including that of a first amendment protected parade, picket or
demonstration that is filed within 48 hours before the commencement of the
proposed event where the purpose of such event is a spontaneous response to a
current event or where other good and compelling causes are shown; and
   (B)   An event application shall be made in the prescribed application form
as set by the permit official and be submitted with the prescribed permit fees
applicable for each special request (set and reviewed annually by the permit
official) and a $1,000,000 general liability with the “Town of Badin” listed as
an insured party for any events that propose street closures, alcohol sales,
distribution, consumption or possession and/or events that have pyrotechnics.
An additional $1,000,000 liquor liability policy will be required for all
events that have alcohol sales, distribution, consumption or possession with
the “Town of Badin” listed as an additional insured party.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 111.04 PERMIT STANDARDS; DENIAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a completed special event application with all
requested supporting documentation, the special event permit request will be
reviewed by the permit official with the exception of any special event request
that requires a street closure or partial street closure or alcohol sales,
distribution, consumption and/or possession which must be reviewed and approved
by Town Council. Nothing in this section shall authorize the permit official
and/or Town Council to deny a permit based upon political, social and/or
religious grounds or reasons, or based upon the content of the views expressed
by the applicant.
   (B)   The permit official and/or Town Council may attach reasonable
conditions to any permit approval.
      (1)   Denial. A permit may be denied for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An incomplete or unexecuted document;
         (b)   The proposed event is only for personal or individual use;
         (c)   The applicant failure to submit permit fees;
         (d)   The applicant failure to tender required indemnification
agreements and/or insurance certificates with proper information;
         (e)   An application containing false or misinformation;
         (f)   The applicant is a minor and not legally able to enter a binding
agreement;
         (g)   The applicant legally incompetent to contract or to sue and be
sued;
         (h)   The applicant has made misrepresentations regarding the nature
or scope of the event in prior occasions;
         (i)   An applicant’s failure to obtain proper road closure permit
necessary for roads within jurisdiction of the state’s Department of
Transportation;
         (j)   The applicant has previously permitted a violation or has
violated the terms of a public assembly or parade permit issued to or on behalf
of the applicant;
         (k)   The applicant has damaged town property on prior occasions and
has not paid for such damage in full;
         (l)   A fully executed prior application for the same time and place
has already been received and a permit has been or will be granted to a prior
applicant authorizing uses or activities which do not reasonably permit
multiply simultaneous events;
         (m)   The proposed event would conflict with previously planned
programs organized, conducted or sponsored by the town and previously scheduled
at or near the same time and place;
         (n)   The proposed event would present an unreasonable danger to
public health or safety;
         (o)   The proposed event would substantially or unnecessarily
interfere with traffic;
         (p)   The proposed event and/or associated congregation of people,
animals and/or vehicles at assembly points would likely interfere with the
movement and/or access of emergency response equipment and police protection in
areas contiguous or in the vicinity of the event;
         (q)   The proposed event would be inadequately supplied with
sufficient law enforcement and traffic-control officers in order to adequately
protect participants and non-participants from traffic-related hazards at the
time of the event in light of other demands for police protection at the time
of the proposed event;
         (r)   The applicant has not complied or cannot comply with applicable
licensure requirements, ordinances or regulations concerning the sale or
offering for sale of any goods or services;
         (s)   The use of proposed activity by applicant is prohibited by law;
         (t)   The proposed picket or demonstration is to commence before 6:00
a.m. or terminate after 8:00 p.m.;
         (u)   The proposed parade or demonstration is being held for the sole
purpose of advertising a product, service, good or event and is designed to be
held primarily for private profit;
         (v)   The conduct of a proposed parade, picket or demonstration is
reasonable likely to result in violence to persons or property causing serious
harm to public; and/or
         (w)   For non-First Amendment protected public assemblies or parades,
the following criteria shall also apply in the consideration of permit
applications:
            1.   Extent to which the event contributes to the economic
revitalization and business development of the town;
            2.   Impact of the event to public health, safety and welfare;
            3.   Impact of the event on business and resident populations
within or adjacent to the proposed event site;
            4.   Evaluation of any previous event produced by the event
organizer with regard to planning, quality, public safety and welfare and
payment of invoices; and
            5.   Frequency and timing of event or similar events.
      (2)   Time and notice of decision.
         (a)   The permit official notwithstanding action required by Town
Council shall approve or deny permit applications within a reasonable amount of
time for the applicant to make necessary accommodations and in conjunction with
allowing adequate time for the permit official’s necessary processing of the
application before the commencement of a proposed first amendment protected
public assembly, parade, picket or demonstration where the purpose of such
event is a spontaneous response to a current event or where other good and
compelling causes are shown to have an expedited approval.
         (b)   When action is necessary by Town Council, approvals or denials
on permit applications with street closure requests and/or alcoholic beverage
sales and/or consumption requests should be made within a reasonable amount of
time in accordance to the Town Council’s prescribed agenda schedule before the
requested event date.
         (c)   Notice of approval or denial shall be communicated to the
applicant within five working days of the decision.
         (d)   A notice of denial shall clearly set forth the grounds which the
permit was denied and contain a proposal for measures by which the applicant
may cure any defects in the application or otherwise procure a permit, when
feasible.
         (e)   Where an application is denied because the proposed event would
conflict with another event that has or will be approved previous to the permit
official receiving said application, the permit official shall propose an
alternative place, date and/or time, when feasible.
      (3)   Revocation. The permit official may revoke any permit granted for
special events the violation by any participant, or the failure of any
participant to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
      (4)   Cost and fees. For special events (other than town-sponsored
events), the applicant shall be responsible for all direct costs incurred by
the town associated with the special event including, but not limited to,
hiring and paying for necessary law and fire officials, reimbursing all costs
associated to appropriately close streets (when needed), providing street and
sidewalk cleaning, trash receptacle replacement, trash removal and disposal.
      (5)   Final decision. Findings and determination of the Town Council
shall be considered final.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
§ 111.05 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any special event are hereby prohibited and
declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights
which, by their use, might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed unless otherwise approved;
   (C)   The allowance of sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages of any
kind without proper permits; and
   (D)   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration conducted under authority of a permit issued
by the permit official.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 PICKET REQUIREMENTS.
   The following acts or activities are required when performing within an
organized picket.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than five pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, the words used are not derogatory or defamatory in
nature.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; CONSUMPTION; MINORS.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages can be possessed, consumed, sold or distributed at
special events held partially or wholly at town-owned or town-controlled
property or facilities, and/or on public sidewalks, parks, alleys, streets and
rights-of-way upon the issuance of a special event alcohol permit as set forth
in this section (with exception of Town Hall, any town-owned and/or operated
fire station and/or police station and public housing administrative and
community center facilities, playgrounds/ball fields).
      (1)   Permit issuance. Special event alcohol permits shall be issued in
conjunction with a special event permit and only after applicant has obtained
and provided to the town all appropriate state and local permits allowing the
possession, consumption, sale and distribution of alcohol.
         (a)   Special event alcohol permits may only be issued to a non-profit
corporation duly incorporated in the state and having received its status as a
tax-exempt organization under § 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Service Code,
being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c).
         (b)   Applicants receiving a special event alcohol permit may allow
vendors to sell or distribute alcoholic beverages without such vendors
obtaining a separate permit; provided that, the applicant receiving the special
event alcohol permit shall be responsible for such vendor having all state and
local permits necessary to sell or distribute such alcoholic beverages and the
required insurance in place for the event.
         (c)   Alcoholic beverages as provided in this section can only be
possessed, consumed, sold or distributed in such area as approved by Town
Council or its designee which must be identified and approved by Town Council
as part of the special event application.
         (d)   The event organizer must provide identification devices to be
used by the bearer to purchase alcoholic beverages. Identification devices are
not transferable and can only be worn and used by the person to whom the
identification device was issued by the event organizer. If the event is a
multi-day event, new identification markers must be issued on succeeding days
of the event. Before issuing the identification markers, the event organizer is
responsible for determining the person to be issued the identification device
is of legal age to possess alcoholic beverages. It is unlawful for a person
authorized to purchase an alcoholic beverage to pass on an alcoholic beverage
to any other person not wearing an authorized identification device.
         (e)   It is unlawful for a person to possess or consume an alcoholic
beverage, except as set out herein, unless he or she is wearing the appropriate
identification device designated for the day of the event.
         (f)   The possession, consumption, sell and/or delivery of alcoholic
beverages not obtained or acquired as set out in this section are not permitted
and are considered a violation of this division (A).
         (g)   Town Council or designee may require the event organizer to hire
an off-duty police officer(s) to oversee alcohol sales at the event and may
place other reasonable conditions on a special event alcohol permit.
         (h)   No special event alcohol permit may be issued without the
applicant obtaining an insurance policy in the amount of $1,000,000 displaying
general liability and liquor liability and which names the “Town of Badin” as
an additional-insured. Said policy shall remain in effect for the entire period
of the event.
         (i)   Permits issued in accordance with this division (A) will only be
in effect for the time and period of the event as specified on the application
as approved by Town Council. Permits issued under this division (A) and
approved by Town Council shall not be transferable.
      (2)   Denial or revocation of special event alcohol permits. Town Council
or its designee may deny or revoke a special event alcohol permit if it is
deemed granting the permit would not be in the public’s interest or it is found
the applicant or vendor has conducted one of the following:
         (a)   Made a deliberate misrepresentation or provided false
information on the application;
         (b)   Operating in such as manner as to create a public nuisance or
constitute a hazard to public health, safety or welfare;
         (c)   Failed to keep the sidewalk, park, street or right-of-way clean
and free of refuse;
         (d)   Failed to maintain and health, business or other permit or
license as required by law;
         (e)   Failure to obtain or maintain the amount and type(s) of
insurance required herein; or
         (f)   Violating any terms of this section.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages or
unfortified wine, as defined by G.S. Ch. 18B, on property owned or occupied by
the town, except as authorized by a special event permit approved by Town
Council.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to funeral processions; governmental agencies
acting within the scope of their functions; or students going to and from
classes or participating in educational activities under the immediate
supervision of the proper school authority.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application; investigation
   
112.04   When license refused
   
112.05   License form and content
   
112.06   Certain prohibitions to be observed by licensee and employees
   
112.07   Rules for operation
   
112.08   Licensee responsibility
   
112.09   License revocation
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   A PLACE OF AMUSEMENT OR ENTERTAINMENT, for the purpose of this chapter,
shall be any place of business that operates as a pool hall, billiard hall,
dance hall, carnival, circus, coffee house, cocktail lounge, night club, beer
hall, any similar establishment or any combination of the above mentioned.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to the authority granted the town in G.S. § 160A-181 to regulate
places of amusement and entertainment, it shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain or operate any such business unless the person shall have secured a
license from the Town Council to operate the business. The license shall expire
July 1 of each year and shall not be transferable.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Applications for a license to maintain or operate a place of amusement
or entertainment shall be made upon forms provided by the Town Clerk and shall
contain all information necessary for the Council to act intelligently upon the
applications.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall refer the information furnished by the applicant
to the Chief of Police who shall investigate such applicant and place sought to
be licensed to determine whether said applicant and place is desirable. The
Chief of Police shall furnish the Town Council with all information pertaining
to convictions of any crimes and any other pertinent information pertaining to
the location of the proposed business. After the applicant has appeared before
the Town Council and the investigation made by the Chief of Police has been
furnished to the Town Council, the Town Council may, in any case, by majority
vote of its members refuse the issuance or order the issuance of such license.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
§ 112.04 WHEN LICENSE REFUSED.
   The Council shall not issue a license to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted within the past two years of a felony; or who
has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or narcotic
drugs;
   (B)   Who is not a citizen and resident of the state;
   (C)   Who is a habitual user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs; or
   (D)   Who has, within three years of application, had a previously issued
license for operation of place of amusement and entertainment revoked.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
§ 112.05 LICENSE FORM AND CONTENT.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the premises for
which it is issued, the number of tables, alleys or machines to be operated
thereunder, the name of the owner or operator and dates upon which the license
shall begin and expire. The license shall be posted in a permanent place on the
premises at all times and is not transferable to any other premises. A license
issued pursuant to this chapter is void if the business moves or ceases
operating at the location required to be stated in the application.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
§ 112.06 CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not, and neither shall their employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time,
nor permit the sale of any card or other gambling device;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly, or permit
any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors, as defined in G.S. § 18B-
101, or narcotic drugs to be sold or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
   (D)   Suffer or permit any person under the age of 16 years to enter or
remain on the licensed premises, unless the person is accompanied by a parent
or guardian;
   (E)   Employ in the establishment any person who has been convicted within
the past two years of a felony offense; or any person who has been convicted of
unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; and/or
   (F)   Suffer or permit any keeley board, keno board or any other gambling
device to be attached or placed upon any tables.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operator of places of amusement
and entertainment.
   (A)    All establishments shall close at 12:00 midnight, Monday through
Saturday, and no person other than the owner, operator or employees shall be
permitted on the premises from that hour until 7:00 a.m., the following
morning.
   (B)   No play on any table, alley or machine shall be allowed during the
times when the premises are required to be closed as specified by this chapter.
   (C)   These establishments shall remain closed on Sundays.
   (D)   All establishments shall operate only on the ground floor of a
building and an unobstructed transparent plate glass window or windows at least
six feet by four feet in size shall be located in those parts of the building
facing any street so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
   (E)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance of the room where amusement and entertainment is
had and the rear wall of the room. A clear view from the interior premises from
the entrance to the rear of the premises must be maintained at all times.
   (F)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
   (G)   There must be an adult (18 years of age or older) managing the
business on the premises at all times.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The acts of conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of business covered hereunder shall be deemed to be the acts and
conduct of the licensee.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
§ 112.09 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   A second conviction of a licensee, or his or her agent or employee, for any
violation of any provision of this chapter shall by operation of law constitute
an automatic revocation of the license of the licensee. In addition, the Town
Council may, at any time, for cause, and after a hearing for which licensee
shall be given reasonable notice as the Town Council may direct, revoke the
license of any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-9-1992)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Authority
   
113.02   Sale of merchandise of any description on any street or sidewalk
   
113.03   Peddler refusing to leave
   
113.04   Solicitation of contributions from the public
§ 113.01 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   G.S. § 160A-178 states a town may, by ordinance, regulate, restrict or
prohibit:
      (1)   The solicitation of contributions from the public for any
charitable or eleemosynary purpose; and
      (2)   The business activities of itinerant merchants, salespersons,
promoters, drummers, peddlers, flea market operators and flea market vendors or
hawkers.
   (B)   These ordinances may include, but shall not be limited to,
requirements that an application be made and a permit issued, that an
investigation be made, that activities be reasonably limited as to time and
place, that proper credentials and proof of financial stability be submitted,
that not more than a stated percentage of contributions to solicitation
campaigns be retained for administrative expenses and that an adequate bond be
posted to protect the public from fraud.
§ 113.02 SALE OF MERCHANDISE OF ANY DESCRIPTION ON ANY STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall sell, barter, trade or auction merchandise of any
description on any street or sidewalk in the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 PEDDLER REFUSING TO LEAVE.
   Any peddler or hawker of goods, wares, services or merchandise who enters
upon premises owned, leased or rented by another and willfully refuses to leave
said premises after having been notified by the owner or possessor of said
premises, or his or her agent, to leave the same shall be in violation of this
chapter.
§ 113.04 SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE PUBLIC.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any licensed non-profit agency
holding § 501(c)3 status from soliciting funds in the non-residential zoning
district with permission from the owner of said premises. No door to door
solicitations are allowed in the residential districts without express prior
communication from the resident.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   NOISE AND SOUND LEVELS
      
132.   LOITERING
      
133.   WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Time limits
   
130.03   Exceptions
   
130.04   Adult responsibility
   
130.05   Business establishment responsibility
   
130.06   Enforcement
   
130.07   Adult, guardian or parent aiding and abetting
   
130.08   Custodian refusing to take custody of minor
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTODIAN. A parent, guardian, step-parent, foster parent, house parent or
other person legally responsible for the care and custody of a minor, as
defined by this chapter.
   MINOR. Any person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which is generally open to and used by the public,
whether it be publicly or privately owned, including, but not limited to,
streets, highways, public vehicular areas, places of business and amusement
parks and other common areas open to the public.
   TOWN. The Town of Badin, North Carolina.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 130.02 TIME LIMITS.
   It is unlawful for any minor to be in or upon or remain in or upon any
public place, as defined in §
130.01 of this chapter, within the town or on any property or right-of-way
belonging to the town and located outside the corporate limits of the town
between the hours of midnight Friday and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or between
midnight Saturday and 5:00 a.m. on Sunday or between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following mornings on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
or Thursday.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restrictions provided by §
130.02 of this chapter shall not apply to any minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her custodian, as defined in §
130.01 of this chapter;
   (B)   Accompanied by a responsible person over the age of 18 years of age
who has the written permission of the minor’s custodian to have the minor under
his or her supervision;
   (C)   Traveling in connection with his or her employment, religious activity
or attendance at a function sponsored by the town or school;
   (D)   Temporarily within the town or on town property while engaged in
interstate travels; or
   (E)   Attempting to obtain assistance in a medical emergency.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 130.04 ADULT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any custodian allow or permit any minor to be in or upon,
or remain in or upon a public place within the town or on any property or
right-of-way belonging to the town and located outside the corporate limits of
the town, within the curfew hours set by §
130.02 of this chapter, except as provided in §
130.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating a place of
business or amusement to allow or permit any minor to be in or upon, or to
remain in or upon the premises of such place of business or amusement within
the curfew hours set by §
130.02 of this chapter, except as provided in §
130.03 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this chapter, a police
officer will check with the County Communication Center and the records of the
Town Police Department to determine if the minor is a first offender. If the
minor is a first time offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his
or her custodian. A written warning will be given to the custodian and an
information report will be taken by the officer. The report shall include the
name of the minor and the custodian, the time, date and location of the
offense. This report will be turned into the Police Department Records
Division.
   (B)   If, upon checking with the County Communication Center and the records
of the Town Police Department, the minor is found to be a repeat offender, he
or she will be taken to the residence of his or her custodian and the custodian
may be issued a criminal citation charging him or her with a violation of this
chapter. A report will be turned in to the Communications Center and entered
into the Police Department Records Division.
   (C)   If the minor is found to be a repeat offender and has passed his or
her twelfth birthday, but has not reached his or her sixteenth birthday, the
minor may be treated as a delinquent juvenile. If the minor is found to be a
repeat offender and has passed his or her sixteenth birthday, then a criminal
summons charging a violation of this chapter may be issued to the minor.
   (D)   If the minor is under 12 years of age, a report will be made and a
copy forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005)
§ 130.07 ADULT, GUARDIAN OR PARENT AIDING AND ABETTING.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person over 18 years of age
to aid or abet a minor in the violation of §
130.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08 CUSTODIAN REFUSING TO TAKE CUSTODY OF MINOR.
   If the custodian of a minor found to be in violation of this chapter refuses
to take custody of such minor, the officer having custody of the minor child
shall contact the County Department of Social Services and release the minor to
that agency, pending further investigation by the Police Department and the
Department of Social Services. The custodian may be issued a criminal citation
charging him or her with a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-3, passed 2-8-2005)
CHAPTER 131: NOISE AND SOUND LEVELS
Section
   
131.01   Prohibited behavior
   
131.02   Non-exclusive enumeration
   
131.03   Permit required; application
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or assist
in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the town, taking
into consideration volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics of
sound.
(Ord. 01-1, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 NON-EXCLUSIVE ENUMERATION.
   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but said enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   The playing of any musical instrument or electronic sound
amplification equipment in such manner or with such volume, particularly during
hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., such that a reasonably prudent person
would recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb persons in the vicinity;
   (B)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded or in such manner as to create unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds;
   (C)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels adjacent to
any school, educational facility or church during normal operating hours, which
a reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely to unreasonably interfere
with the working of such institutions; provided, conspicuous signs are
displayed indicating that such area is a school, educational facility or
church;
   (D)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only under the direction
of any appropriate city official;
   (E)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for
advertising or soliciting purposes, except with an appropriate permit;
   (F)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes, except with an
appropriate permit;
   (G)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, fireworks, gunpowder or
other combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of
making noise or disturbance, except with an appropriate permit;
   (H)   The maintenance and operation of radios, amplifiers, phonographs or
other mechanical instruments or devices of any kind whereby the sound therefrom
is cast directly upon the streets or other public places, such that a
reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely to unreasonably disturb
persons in the vicinity; and
   (I)   The keeping of any animal which causes frequent or long-continued
noise that disturbs the comfort and repose of any person in the vicinity.
(Ord. 01-1, passed 2-13-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this chapter may
do so when a specific permit is approved by the Town Manager or his or her
designee. Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the town. The
permit shall not be unreasonably withheld, and may contain appropriate
conditions, including maximum decibel levels, designed to minimize disruptive
impact. Permits for such activities significantly for religious or political
purposes shall be granted, subject only to reasonable time, place and manner
restrictions. Permits issued under this section may specify that the permission
granted will continue for a stated period of days or until revoked after actual
notice. Persons shall not be held in violation of this chapter when acting in
conformity with permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked if it is
determined that the authorized activity has resulted in the generation of
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels.
   (B)   In case an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the Town Manager or
his or her designee, upon submission of a written request. Any person aggrieved
by a matter regulated in this chapter may submit to the Town Manager written
comments, including requests for appropriate relief.
(Ord. 01-1, passed 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Prohibited behavior
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER. A person who has, within the
knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court within the
state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of the substances
referred to in the state’s Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5, or
has been convicted of any violations of any substantially similar laws of any
political subdivision of the state of any other state of federal law or by
professional knowledge of the police officer.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park,
driveway, parking lot or transportation facility or the doorways and entrance
ways to any building which fronts on any of those places or any property owned
by the town.
(Ord. 00-2, passed 2-8-2000)
§ 132.02 PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain on foot or in a motor
vehicle or wander about on foot or in motor vehicle in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in a violation
of any subdivision of the state’s Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Art.
5.
   (B)   Such circumstances shall include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by,
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Such person is known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug-related activity or other unlawful activity;
      (6)   Such person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (7)   Such person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a
police officer; or
      (8)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or is known to be or have been involved in drug-related
activities.
(Ord. 00-2, passed 2-8-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
Section
   
133.01   Unlawful discharge
   
133.02   Exceptions
§ 133.01 UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge within the town
limits a gun, pistol or firearm of any kind, or to discharge any air rifle, air
pistol, BB gun, blow gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot or any device of
any description by whatever name known, that, by means of compressed air,
compressed gas, spring or other means, is capable of discharging shots,
pellets, BBs or any solid object.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, managing conservator,
possessory conservator, custodian or other adult person to permit his or her
child, ward or any other person under the age of 17 years old and subject to
his or her discipline and control, to discharge within the town limits a gun,
pistol or firearm of any kind, or to discharge any air rifle, air pistol, BB
gun, blow gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot or any device of any
description by whatever name known, that, by means of compressed air,
compressed gas, spring or other means, is capable of discharging shots,
pellets, BBs or any solid object.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 6-9-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   Section
133.01 of this chapter shall not apply:
   (A)   When such person or minor is possessing or using such weapons on a
range operated or conducted by any school, educational institution or other
regulated group;
   (B)   When such person or minor is using or possessing such weapons within a
regulated, or supervised course or range provided by the town, under
regulations or ordinances duly promulgated and adopted by Council; or
   (C)   When such person or minor is carrying such weapon, unloaded and
otherwise dismantled, to and from such licensed or authorized course, while in
the presence of any parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person.
(Ord. 98-2, passed 6-9-1998)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
152.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
153.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Abandoned Structures
   
150.01   Finding; intent
   
150.02   Building Inspector; duties and powers
   
150.03   Standards for enforcement
   
150.04   Enforcement procedures; notice; hearing
   
150.05   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.06   Placarding; in rem action by Inspector
   
150.07   Cost of lien on premises
   
150.08   Alternative remedies
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.01 FINDING; INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town abandoned structures
which the Town Council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. §
160A-441, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the repair,
closing or demolition of any such abandoned structures in accordance with the
same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing
or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
§ 150.02 BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Duties of the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector is hereby
designated as the town officer to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. It
shall be the duty of the Building Inspection:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To take such action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary
to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provision of this subchapter; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or
assigned to him or her by the Town Council.
   (B)   Powers of the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector is authorized
to exercise such powers as may be necessary to carry out the intent and the
provisions of this subchapter, including the following powers in addition to
others herein granted:
      (1)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order
to determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (3)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
      (4)   To designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
§ 150.03 STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town’s citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Building Inspector may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structures
which might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents
and insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by at least five residents of the town charging that
any structure exists in violation of this subchapter or whenever it appears to
the Inspector, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in such structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten, nor more than 30, days after the serving of said
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such structure. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and
give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether such structure violates this subchapter.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter or improve such
structure or else remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time
not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, the
Inspector may submit to the Town Council at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an
order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)
(1) above, the Inspector shall submit to the Town Council an ordinance ordering
the Inspector to cause such structure to be removed or demolished, as provided
in the original order of the Inspector, and pending such removal or demolition,
to placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining
the Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §
160A-446(f).
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
§ 150.05 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered mail, but if the whereabouts of such persons
are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect,
and the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may be made by
publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required under §
150.04 of this chapter. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
§ 150.06 PLACARDING; IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and upon
adoption by the town of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or her to do
so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.04(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause such structure
either to be repaired or else removed or demolished, as directed by the
ordinance of the Town Council and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance
of such structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the structure.
Use or occupation of building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.07 COST OF LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446, the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be enforced and
the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
§ 150.08 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary motion or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 10-8-1991)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Right-of-Way Obstructions
   
151.01   Obstructions in street and highway right-of-way prohibited
   
151.02   Trees
   
151.03   Abatement by town
   
151.04   Costs
RIGHT-OF-WAY OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 151.01 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREET AND HIGHWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, OBSTRUCTION means and is defined as
any object, building or sign, whether human-made or natural, including, without
limitation, tall ornamental grasses, bushes, shrubs, dirt and sand berms,
fences, yard decorations, stakes, poles, posts, bulkheads, large stones/rocks
and concrete or other masonry walls.
   (B)   All obstructions are prohibited from the right-of-way of all streets
and highways in the town. For the purposes of this subchapter, RIGHT-OF-WAY is
defined as any public street, way, place, alley, sidewalk, easement, park,
square, plaza and town-owned right-of-way dedicated to public use.
   (C)   Prohibited obstructions include, but are not limited to, leaves, grass
clippings, mulching material, cut vegetation, pruning remnants, limbs, brush or
other foliage, any and all debris left behind by contracted laborers or other
paid service providers deposited onto public property or right-of-way including
all plots, parcels, throughways, easements and real property.
   (D)   The following shall be excluded from prohibition:
      (1)   Storm debris and acts of God;
      (2)   Leaves properly placed curbside for seasonal collection during
municipally-scheduled collection times;
      (3)   Limb and brush debris of no more than ten feet in length and no
more than six inches in diameter placed curbside for monthly collection no more
than one week prior to scheduled collection;
      (4)   Existing trees and anything installed by the town, county, state or
a utility on approved easements or as allowed by other sections of the town
code of ordinances. The town is not responsible for any damage incurred to, by
way of illustration, obstructions, plantings or underground irrigation systems
placed on the town-owned right-of-way when such damage occurs as a result of
any activity conducted by the town in support of its rights-of-way;
      (5)   Garbage/recycling containers, branches, brush and other items
temporarily placed on the right-of-way for scheduled pickup at designated times
by the town or other service provider; and
      (6)   Property-address signs meeting all other town code of ordinances.
   (E)   Placement of signs on the town right-of-way and private property is
regulated by §§
155.145 through
155.156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 12-2, passed 2-14-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.02 TREES.
   (A)   The town, at its discretion, may remove existing trees on town-owned
rights-of-way.
   (B)   Property owners or their agents may also remove trees on the town-
owned right-of-way with the permission of the town, which shall be obtained by
way of the following procedure.
      (1)   A property owner or his or her agent shall complete a request to
remove tree from right-of-way form, which may be obtained from the Clerk at
Town Hall. The property owner or his or her agent’s request to remove a tree
from right-of-way will at least state the following: the requested date of
removal; address of property where removal will occur; type of tree to be
removed (dogwood, oak and the like); approximate height of the tree;
approximate circumference of the tree trunk starting at a point measured at
least four feet from the ground and no more than six feet from the ground;
reason for removal; date for completion of removal.
      (2)   The Town Manager will review the removal request and grant or deny
the request no more than ten working days after the request is submitted. The
town reserves the right to deny or grant a removal request for any reason it
deems necessary to provide for the health, safety and well-being of the town’s
residents and users of town streets. The property owner or his or her agent
will be notified in writing of the Town Manager’s decision.
   (C)   Brush, vines and trees less than four inches in diameter may be
removed without restriction at the discretion and expense of the property
owner.
(Ord. 12-2, passed 2-14-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town recognizes the fact that some obstructions have been placed
on the town-owned right-of-way prior to the enactment of this subchapter. Such
obstructions are allowed to temporarily remain on the right-of-way at the sole
discretion of the town. The town may order the removal of any obstructions at
any time as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   If any person, having been ordered in writing by the Town Council or
Town Manager to abate an obstruction in a town-owned right-of-way, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
obstruction within ten days from receipt of an order to remove an obstruction,
the Town Manager or his or her designee may cause such condition to be removed
or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town or independent
contractors remove or otherwise abate such nuisance at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Any person causing, permitting or allowing an obstruction to exist who
has been ordered to abate or remove the obstruction may, within the time
allowed by this subchapter, request the town in writing to suggest possible
contractors to remove such condition, the cost of which shall be paid directly
to the contractor by the person ordered by the town to remove the obstruction.
(Ord. 12-2, passed 2-14-2012)
§ 151.04 COSTS.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing an obstruction from a
street right-of-way shall be charged to the owner of such lot or parcel of land
that caused, permitted or allowed the obstruction to exist. If such costs
charged in accordance with this section are not paid as herein stated, the
costs shall be a lien upon the land or premises and shall be collected as
unpaid taxes in accordance to G.S. § 160A-193.
(Ord. 12-2, passed 2-14-2012)
CHAPTER 152: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
152.01   Definition
   
152.02   Application
   
152.03   Location of pool relative to side and rear lot lines, buildings
   
152.04   Construction permit required; prerequisites; deposit
   
152.05   Fence required
§ 152.01 DEFINITION.
   The term SWIMMING POOL, as herein used, means a body of water of artificial
construction, used for swimming or recreational bathing, together with the
sides or bottom of the pool, buildings and equipment appurtenant thereto,
having a depth of 30 inches at any point.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall not apply to indoor swimming pools, to portable wading
pools less than 30 inches in depth or to swimming pools regulated or maintained
by the state, either by statute or by rules and regulations of one of its
administrative agencies.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 1-9-2018)
§ 152.03 LOCATION OF POOL RELATIVE TO SIDE AND REAR LOT LINES, BUILDINGS.
   A swimming pool and any accessory building which houses pumping and
filtering equipment shall be considered as an accessory structure and such
structure shall comply with all requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances; provided, however, that, no swimming pool
or swimming pool accessory structure shall be located nearer than ten feet to
the side or rear lot lines or to any house, building or residence.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT REQUIRED; PREREQUISITES; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, association or club shall construct or cause to be
constructed or commence construction on a public or private swimming pool in
the town without first having obtained a permit from the Town Manager.
   (B)   The application for a swimming pool building permit shall be
accompanied by a complete and detailed set of plans and specifications and
shall be approved by the Building Inspector and the County Health Department.
No permit for such construction shall be issued unless the application therefor
shows that such pool, upon completion of construction, shall meet the
requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   All applications for a swimming pool permit shall be accompanied by a
deposit of $10.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 FENCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct, install, maintain or operate a
swimming pool within the town, either an already existing one or one newly
constructed, without constructing and maintaining around the entire perimeter
thereof a fence not less than four feet in height and of sufficient strength to
eliminate unobstructed access thereto, except at properly constructed entrance
gates. The gates shall be of a self- closing type with the latch on the inside
of the gate, not readily available for children to open. It is the intent and
purpose of this section to provide protection to children against injury or
mishap resulting from construction and maintenance of swimming pools. However,
if the entire premises of the residence is enclosed, then this provision may be
waived by the Building Inspector upon inspection and approval of the residence
enclosure. The fence or barrier may enclose either the pool area only or the
full property boundary area or any part of the property which includes the
pool.
   (B)   The fence or barrier shall be designed to meet the following criteria.
      (1)   The fence or barrier shall be at least 48 inches in height.
      (2)   Entrances through the fence or barrier shall be provided with self-
closing gates which have self-latching mechanisms.
      (3)   Openings under and through a fence or barrier with the gate(s)
closed shall be sized so that a four and one-half inch diameter sphere cannot
pass through the openings.
      (4)   Shrubbery or plantings are not acceptable as a fence or barrier.
      (5)   A dwelling house or accessory building may be used as part of such
enclosure. No person in possession of land in the town, either as owner,
purchaser, lessee, tenant or licensee, upon which is situated a swimming pool
shall fail to provide and maintain such barrier as herein provided.
   (C)   Swimming pool owners whose pool or property do not meet the
imperatives of this chapter shall have one year from the date of adoption of
this chapter to become fully compliant with the complete content of this
chapter.
(Ord. 18-1, passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
153.02   Scope
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Housing Inspector; powers and duties
   
153.05   Inspections
   
153.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
153.07   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
153.08   Dwelling not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
153.09   Procedure after hearing; order
   
153.10   Failure to comply with order
   
153.11   Service of complaints and orders
   
153.12   Appeals
   
153.13   Alternative remedies
   
153.14   Violations
Conditions and Standards
   
153.25   Structural standards
   
153.26   Plumbing standards
   
153.27   Heating standards
   
153.28   Electrical standards
   
153.29   Ventilation standards
   
153.30   Space, use and location standards
   
153.31   Safe and sanitary maintenance standards
   
153.32   Insect, rodent and infestation control standards
   
153.33   Rooming house standards
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Structures, see §§
150.01 through
150.08
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals and otherwise inimical to the
welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6, it is the purpose of
this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
   (C)   (1)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the
authority of G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which,
although not meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to
fully comply with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established
herein and, therefore, have present one or more conditions which are inimical
to the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Such conditions, if not corrected can lead to deterioration and
dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof, which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing
housing and to all housing hereafter constructed within the town jurisdiction.
Portable, mobile or demountable buildings or structures, including trailers,
manufactured homes and mobile homes when used or intended for use for housing
within the jurisdiction, shall be subject to the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction,
repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities, except as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Town Council to be a health or safety hazard
as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire
hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or frequent use
by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building, which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located, above the level of the
adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of the
dwelling value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector using the
County Tax Office’s valuation of the structure.
      DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of the
dwelling value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector using the
County Tax Office’s valuation of the structure.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Town Council to carry out
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town, county or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group or rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming house”,
“rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.04 HOUSING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created.
   (B)   The Housing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Council, and
shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
      (1)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions
in the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in such examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   Oaths, witnesses and the like. To administer oaths and affirmations
and to examine witnesses and receive evidence;
      (3)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings for
the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided that, such
entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (4)   Warrants, citations and the like. To swear criminal warrants, issue
civil citations and to take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out
the enforcement procedures of this chapter; and
      (5)   Delegation of functions and the like. To delegate any of his or her
functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he or
she may designate.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector
(on his or her own motion) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and parties
in interest in such dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the town therein
fixed not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, after the serving of the
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   (1)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant
to this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county, to be indexed and cross-
indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of state statutes.
      (2)   The Inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be
served upon the owners and parties in interest in the dwelling at the time of
filing in accordance with G.S. § 160A-445, as applicable.
      (3)   Upon compliance with the requirements of any order issued based
upon such complaint and hearing, the Inspector shall direct the Clerk of
Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.07 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in such dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the town;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard; and
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been “cut off” because of non-payment of the water bill or otherwise
or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
a dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the enumerated standards
of dwelling fitness in §§
153.25 through
153.33 of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.08 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more, but less than seven of enumerated standards of
dwelling fitness in §§
153.25 through
153.33 of this chapter, such dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for human
habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided
for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each such failure
of non-compliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this
chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement
procedures, civil or criminal or both, of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, in making the determination as described in
this section, the Housing Inspector shall not be required to make notice and
hold the hearing as called for in §
153.06 of this chapter, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the
determination of the severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not
clear to the Housing Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.09 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth in §§
153.25 through
153.33 of this chapter, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of
fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close
the dwelling as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector’s
standards for closing dwellings; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or to remove or
demolish such dwelling.
   (B)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation, but is not
in full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A)(1) or (A)
(2) above that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished,
under the provisions of this chapter, notice of the order shall be given by
first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring
dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for such
notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be
given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing.
The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certifications
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for such notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the Inspector to
wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.10 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause such dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished; or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above shall not be exercised until the Town Council shall have by ordinance
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the Housing
Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property
or properties shall be described in this chapter. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Code. For the purposes of this division (C), a period of 90 days following the
date of the Housing Inspector’s order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. If the dwelling is
removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the
materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances
found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale
against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured
in a manner directed by the Court and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to division (C) above
authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling,
the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and
that all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove
an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature
of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division (E) unless such
occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding that the Town Council has ordered the Housing
inspector to proceed to exercise his or her duties under divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.11 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served
upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service
is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustments, acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision
of the Housing inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice
of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that
case, the requirement shall not be suspended, except by a restraining order,
which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written
notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon
petition made pursuant to division (E) below.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustments shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter and, to that end, it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application
of this chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of
this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and
substantial justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court’s calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division (E).
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.13 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he determines that it is fit for human habitation. In addition,
in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary investigation as
provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation, that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes that the occupancy
of such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril to life or
property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until such time
that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance or
code adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain,
correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 153.14 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
153.09 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 153.25 STRUCTURAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle,
shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged and shall not have holes or cracks
which might admit rodents.
   (B)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
   (E)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall
be provided.
   (F)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets
and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by use of
reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be
maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls,
floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed
and maintained so as to be weather- and water-tight.
   (H)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors
on the ground.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.26 PLUMBING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and an adequate supply of both cold
water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes of
this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been “cut off”
because of non-payment of the water bill or otherwise or if the system for any
reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
   (B)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
   (C)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet and
tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.27 HEATING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat in
accordance with either divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) below. Such facilities shall
be maintained in a state of good repair and good working order.
      (1)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 68°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during average winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient
electrical receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby
heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 68°F
measured three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
   (B)   Kerosene heaters. Portable kerosene heaters are not acceptable as a
permanent source of heat as required by division (A)(1) above, but may be used
as a supplementary source in single-family dwellings. An owner who has complied
with division (A)(1) above shall not be held in violation of this section where
an occupant of a dwelling unit uses a kerosene heater as a primary source of
heat.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.28 ELECTRICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor
or wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as
determined by the Electric Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom,
water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room
shall contain at least three floor or wall type electric convenience
receptacles.
   (B)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural light
is not sufficient.
   (C)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed
in accordance with the Electric Code.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.29 VENTILATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any such room and such light obstructions are located less than five feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight type window in the top of such a room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet room. Every bathroom equipped with more than
one water closet compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.30 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the Residential Building Code. (Floor area
shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However, closet area
and wall area within the dwelling may count for not more than 10% of the
required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any room where the
ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall not be considered as a
part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room to determine
maximum permissible occupancy.)
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant. In
every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor area,
and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall
contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant 12 years of age
and over, and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each occupant under 12
years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially water-tight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.31 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof,
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair, shall be capable of affording
privacy and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance of
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wail and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof, shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon and shall be
kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface
and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained
so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be
easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this section shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an
approved listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall provide an
audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and meet the
requirements of UL 217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.32 INSECT, RODENT AND INFESTATION CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
      (1)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space. Except, that sliding doors, doors
with self-closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self-closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision; and
      (2)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with
an opening to outdoor space; except that, this requirement shall not apply for
any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable
and installed heating and air conditioning system.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be free
of any infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a
dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
or her dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in
two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public
parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as required by town
ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with an
approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage
disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an incinerator
unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use of the
occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage container as
required by town ordinances.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.33 ROOMING HOUSE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum
standards and requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming
houses, and to every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or
lets to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as
provided in the following divisions.
      (1)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever such facilities are shared. All
such facilities shall be located within the residence building served, shall be
directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall not be more than
one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
      (2)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
      (3)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (4)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by division (A)(1) above shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
   (B)   FULL COMPLIANCE WITH A STANDARD means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling then that dwelling has
failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For example, in regard to
standard #10: if all standards are met in a dwelling, except that a supply of
hot water is not provided, then the dwelling fails to fully comply with
standard #10.
(Ord. 05-6, passed 4-12-2005)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Applicability
   
154.003   Authority and jurisdiction
   
154.004   When a subdivision plat is required
   
154.005   When a subdivision plat is not required
   
154.006   Recordation of unapproved plat prohibited
   
154.007   Sale of property in violation of chapter prohibited
   
154.008   Classification of applications
   
154.009   Definitions
Application Requirements
   
154.020   General
   
154.021   Major subdivisions
   
154.022   Minor subdivisions
Conditions and Standards
   
154.035   Criteria for subdivision approval
   
154.036   Minor subdivisions
   
154.037   Major subdivisions
Open Space Standards
   
154.050   Applicability
   
154.051   Preservation of open space
   
154.052   Open space characteristics
   
154.053   Access to open space
   
154.054   Public open space
Lot Design Standards
   
154.065   Purpose of site design standards
   
154.066   Minimum lot standards
   
154.067   Blocks
   
154.068   Corner lots
   
154.069   Lot frontage requirements
   
154.070   Flag lots
   
154.071   Cul-de-sac lots
   
154.072   Perimeter buffer yard for residential subdivisions
   
154.073   Infrastructure standards
   
154.074   Environmental protections
Design Standards for Streets and Utilities
   
154.085   General
   
154.086   Water and sewers
   
154.087   Fire protection
   
154.088   Public streets
   
154.089   Standard details and cross-sections; drawings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall officially be known, cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Badin, North Carolina”.
   (B)   As required by G.S. §§ 160A-371 to 160A-376, the purpose of
establishing this chapter is:
      (1)   To ensure the orderly growth and development of the town, including
the requirement that adequate public facilities are available to serve new
subdivisions of land, and the use of techniques such as the timing and
sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in existing
neighborhoods and non-residential areas with adequate public facilities, the
assurance of urban form and open space separation of urban areas, the
protection of environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban
development;
      (2)   To provide for the coordination of streets and highways within
proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways and with
other public facilities;
      (3)   To provide for the dedication or reservation of recreation areas
serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision or for
provision of funds to be used to acquire recreation areas serving residents of
the development or subdivision or more than one subdivision or development
within the immediate area;
      (4)   To provide rights-of-way or easements for street and utility
purposes including the dedication of rights-of-way pursuant to G.S. §§ 136-
66.10 or 136-66.11;
      (5)   To provide for the distribution of population and traffic in a
manner that will avoid congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions
essential to public health, safety and the general welfare; and
      (6)   To provide that the final plat show sufficient data to determine
readily and reproduce accurately on the ground the location, bearing, and
length of every street and alley line, lot line, easement boundary line and
other property boundaries, including the radius and other data for curved
property lines, to an appropriate accuracy and in conformance with good
surveying practice.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1A)
§ 154.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any subdivision, as defined in §
154.009 of this chapter, within the corporate limits of the town or any
extraterritorial jurisdiction established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360.
   (B)   Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date of these
regulations should, whenever possible, be brought within the scope of these
regulations to further the purposes of this chapter. However, all existing
preliminary plats that were approved under the prior ordinance shall remain
valid unless or until the approval expires.
   (C)   Rural subdivisions: any tract of land to be subdivided for the purpose
of residential development within an RA Zone shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1B)
§ 154.003 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning and Zoning Board is vested with the authority to
review and make recommendations to the Town Council on preliminary plats.
      (2)   The Town Council is vested with the authority to review, approve,
conditionally approve and disapprove applications for preliminary plats.
   (B)   The Administrator is vested with the authority to review and approve
sketch plats and to approve, conditionally approve and disapprove applications
for conveyance plats (minor subdivisions).
   (C)   (1)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee is vested
with the authority to review and approve construction plans, subdivision
improvement agreements and maintenance bonds.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee is also granted
the authority to inspect and accept or deny all improvements as required by
this section.
   (D)   The Town Council is vested with the authority to accept all public
dedications including, but not limited to, rights-of-way, easements, park
facilities and open space.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1C)
§ 154.004 WHEN A SUBDIVISION PLAT IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the owner or
proprietor of any tract of land who desires to subdivide land (to create a
“subdivision”) shall be required to submit a plat of such subdivision to the
Administrator, whom is hereby charged with the responsibility for coordinating
the processing of such plats. The subdivision plat submitted to the
Administrator must be made in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall subdivide land without making and recording a plat and
complying fully with the provisions of this chapter and all other state and
local laws and regulations applying to subdivisions.
   (C)   No person shall sell or transfer ownership of any lot or parcel of
land by reference to a plat of a subdivision before such plat has been duly
recorded with the Register of Deeds, unless such subdivision was created prior
to the adoption of this chapter and any other subdivision ordinance applicable
thereto.
   (D)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land which was created by subdivision after the effective
date of this chapter, and no construction of any public or private improvements
shall be commenced, except in conformity with the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   In any matter in which a court orders the partition of land by
dividing the same among the owners, such action shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter; provided that, the town is made a party defendant
to said action and gives its consent or fails to file responsive pleadings to
said division of the property.
   (F)   (1)   A final subdivision plat shall be approved by the Administrator
before the subdivision of a parcel may be recorded.
      (2)   No land may be subdivided through the use of any legal description
other than with reference to a plat approved by the Administrator in accordance
with these regulations.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1D)
§ 154.005 WHEN A SUBDIVISION PLAT IS NOT REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-376, a subdivision plat shall not be required for
any of the following: (See definition of “subdivision” in §
154.009 of this chapter.)
   (A)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the
resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as shown in
this chapter;
   (B)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
   (C)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the widening
or opening of streets; and
   (D)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the municipality, as shown in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1E)
§ 154.006 RECORDATION OF UNAPPROVED PLAT PROHIBITED.
   The Register of Deeds shall not file or record any subdivision plat required
by this chapter until such plat shall have been approved, and such approval
evidenced thereon, in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1F)
§ 154.007 SALE OF PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No land described in this section shall be subdivided or sold, or
transferred until each of the following conditions has occurred in accordance
with these regulations:
   (A)   The subdivider or his or her agent has submitted a conforming sketch
plat of the subdivision to the Administrator; and the subdivider or his or her
agent has obtained approval of the sketch plat, a preliminary plat (when
required), and a final plat as provided in this section; and
   (B)   The subdivider or his or her agent files the final or conveyance plat
with the Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1G)
§ 154.008 CLASSIFICATION OF APPLICATIONS.
   Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the property proposed to be
subdivided, or his or her authorized agent, shall apply for and secure approval
of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedures, which
include two principal steps for an expedited or minor subdivision and three
principal steps for a major subdivision:
   (A)   Minor subdivision (§
154.036 of this chapter):
      (1)   Sketch plat; and
      (2)   Conveyance or final plat.
   (B)   Major subdivision (§
154.037 of this chapter):
      (1)   Sketch plat;
      (2)   Preliminary plat; and
      (3)   Final subdivision plat.
Table 1.1 Classification of Subdivisions
Classification Stage Designated Agency (Decision Time Limit for Processing
                     Maker)
Table 1.1 Classification of Subdivisions
                                                Designated
Classification                  Stage           Agency          Time Limit for
                                                (Decision       Processing
                                                Maker)
                                                Director of
                                                Public Works or
Construction plans              -               his or her      30 days
                                                designee, as
                                                delegated by
                                                this chapter
                                                Planning Board
                                Sketch plat     with            25 working days
                                                Administrator
                                                recommendation
                                                Town Council,
Major subdivision                               after receiving
                                Preliminary     a
                                plat            recommendation  60 - 90 days
                                                from the
                                                Planning and
                                                Zoning Board
                                Final plat      Town Council    25 working days
                                Sketch plat     Administrator   15 working days
                                                Town Council
Minor subdivision               Conveyance plat with            25 working days
                                or final plat   Administrator
                                                recommendation
                                                Town Council,   Reasonable
                                                after receiving period of time,
Exception from chapter (see §                  a               depending on
154.037 of this chapter)        -               recommendation  circumstances
                                                from the        and scope of
                                                Planning and    application
                                                Zoning Board
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1H)
§ 154.009 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words contained in this section are those having a special meaning
relative to the purposes of this chapter. Words not listed in this section
shall be defined by reference to: Chapter 2 of the State Building Code
(Standard Building Code, 1997) or, if not defined therein, in the Webster’s
Third New International Dictionary, unabridged, 1993, which documents are
hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in their entirety herein.
Words and terms not defined in this section, but defined elsewhere in this
chapter, shall be given the meanings set forth therein. Particular uses not
defined herein shall have the meaning assigned in the Use Matrix and the NAICS
Manual.
   (B)   In the interpretation of this chapter, the provisions and rules of
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      (1)   Words used or defined in one tense or form shall include other
tenses and derivative forms.
      (2)   Words in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
words in the plural number shall include the singular number.
      (3)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the feminine
gender shall include the masculine.
      (4)   The word “shall” is mandatory.
      (5)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (6)   The word “person” includes individuals, firms, corporations,
associations, trusts and any other similar entities.
      (7)   The word “town” shall refer to the Town of Badin.
      (8)   The word “Board” shall mean the Board of Adjustment.
      (9)   The words “Planning Board” shall mean the Town Planning and Zoning
Board.
      (10)   The words “Recorder” and “Recorder of Deeds” shall mean the County
Register of Deeds.
      (11)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption, illustration or table, the text shall
control.
      (12)   All provisions of this chapter shall be construed to be in
addition to all other applicable laws, ordinances and rules of the federal
government, the state or the town; and in case of any conflict between this
chapter and any such other law, ordinance or rule, the more restrictive shall
prevail.
      (13)   The words “include” and “including” mean include or including by
way of illustration and not by way of [reserved].
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADVANCEMENT OF CAPACITY. The provision, by an applicant for development
approval or any other entity or person, of a public facility, or funding
sufficient to ensure the acquisition of any necessary right-of-way and
construction of a public facility, prior to the scheduled date of construction
of the public facility in the capital improvements program.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short, dead-end street terminating in a vehicular turn-
around area.
      CURB FACE. The vertical or shaped portion of a curb, facing the roadway
and designed to direct storm waters.
      CURB. A stone, concrete or other improved boundary marking the edge of
the roadway or paved area.
      CURB OUTLET SYSTEM. Curb and gutter installed in connection with storm
water management, as more particularly defined in 15A NCAC 02H.1002, which is
hereby incorporated by this reference.
      CURVILINEAR. Curvilinear grid street pattern is a modified street grid
that provides fewer connections more easily adapts to the terrain.
      DEVELOPER.
         (a)   A person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, groups or organization who shall participate as owner, promoter,
developer or sales agent in the planning, platting, development, promotion,
sale or lease of a development.
         (b)   The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or developed or its
authorized agent who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review
and/or approval under this chapter.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   The division of a parcel of land into two of more parcels; the
construction, reconstruction conversion, structural alteration, relocation or
enlargement of any structure; any mining, drilling, excavation, clearing of
roadways or building sites, landfill or land disturbance and any use or
extension of the use of land. This definition excludes normal earth working
associated with crop farming or landscaping of an individual single-family
residential lot.
         (b)   The term DEVELOPMENT includes all of the activities listed in
the definition of “development” in 15A NCAC 02H.1002, which definition is
hereby incorporated by this reference, and any of the following activities:
            1.   Change in use;
            2.   Construction, clearing, filling, excavating, grading, paving,
dredging, mining, drilling or otherwise significantly disturbing the soil of a
site;
            3.   Building, installing, enlarging, replacing or substantially
restoring a structure, impervious surface or central water system and including
the long-term storage of materials;
            4.   Erection of a permanent sign;
            5.   Any activity increasing the need for parking; and
            6.   Construction, elimination or alteration of a driveway onto a
public street.
      DEVELOPMENT ORDER. Any action granting, denying or granting with
conditions an application for a development permit.
      DEVELOPMENT PARCEL. Any quantity of land capable of being described with
such definiteness that its location and boundaries may be established, which is
designated by its owner or developer as land to be used or developed as a unit
or which has been used or developed as a unit.
      DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any zoning clearance; building permit; home
occupation permit; sign permit; temporary use permit; certificate of occupancy;
conditional use permit; preliminary subdivision plat; final subdivision plat or
other plat approval; preliminary site plan; final site plan; rezoning (change
of zone); Comprehensive Plan amendment; specific plan; or any other official
action of the town or any other state or local government commission, board,
agency, department or official having the effect of permitting development of
land located within the geographic area subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      DEVELOPMENT RIGHT. The potential for the improvement of a parcel of real
property, measured in dwelling units for residential uses or equivalent
dwelling units for non-residential uses, which exists because of the zoning
classification of the parcel.
      DRIVEWAY. A private, vehicular access connecting a house, carport,
parking area, garage or other buildings with the street. A DRIVEWAY is not a
road, street, boulevard, highway or parkway.
      FINAL PLAT. A survey map of record which indicates the boundaries for
streets, blocks, lots and other property divisions which is prepared pursuant
to §§
154.065 through
154.074 of this chapter.
      FLAG LOT. See LOT, FLAG.
      FRONT. Any public street frontage, not including alleys.
      FRONTAGE. The distance in which a property line is common with a public
or private street road right-of-way or a recorded access easement. See §
154.069 of this chapter for provisions regarding access easements.
      FRONTAGE, DOUBLE. A lot which extends from one street frontage to another
street.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Right-of-way pavements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, paths,
bikeways, sedimentation control facilities, re-vegetation, water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, drainways, gas lines, electrical and telephone lines
and appurtenances, street signs, trees and lights, lot pin monuments, range
point boxes and any other similar items required for compliance with the
regulations of this chapter or the conditions of approval.
      LOCAL ROAD or LOCAL STREET. Provides direct access to adjacent land and
access to higher street classifications. All streets or roads not otherwise
classified are local.
      LOT. A parcel of land described by metes and bounds and held or intended
to be held in separate lease or ownership, or shown as a lot or parcel on a
recorded subdivision, or shown on a plat used in the lease or sale or offer of
lease or sale of land resulting from the division of a larger lot, parcel or
tract into two or more smaller lots or units. A LOT includes any piece or
parcel of land or a portion of a subdivision, the boundaries of which have been
established by some legal instrument of record, that is recognized and intended
as a unit for the purpose of transfer of ownership.
      MAJOR SUBDIVISION. All land subdivisions that are not exempted by state
statute or previously described under the minor subdivision procedures shall be
processed as a major subdivision.
      OPEN SPACE.
         (a)   Any space or area characterized by great natural scenic beauty
or whose existing openness, natural condition or present state of use, if
retained, would enhance the present or potential value of abutting or
surrounding urban development, or would maintain or enhance the conservation of
natural or scenic resources.
         (b)   The term OPEN SPACE LAND includes any undeveloped or
predominantly undeveloped land in an urban area that has value for one or more
of the following purposes:
            1.   Park and recreational purposes;
            2.   Conservation of land and other natural resources; or
            3.   Historic or scenic purposes.
         (c)   The term OPEN SPACE USES means any use of open space land for:
            1.   Park and recreational purposes;
            2.   Conservation of land and other natural resources; or
            3.   Historic or scenic purposes.
(G.S. § 160A-407)
      PHASED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan which has been submitted to a town by a
landowner for phased development which shows the type and intensity of use for
a specific parcel or parcels with a lesser degree of certainty than the plan
determined by the town to be a site specific development plan.
(G.S. § 160A-385.1)
      PHASED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION or PHASED SITE PLAN APPLICATION.
         (a)   An application for subdivision or site plan approval in which
the applicant proposes not to immediately subdivide or develop the property,
but to develop the property in one or more individual phase(s) over a period of
time.
         (b)   A phased subdivision application may include an application for
approval of, or conversion to, horizontal or vertical condominiums, non-
residential development projects, planned unit developments, mixed-use projects
and residential developments.
         (c)   A phased subdivision application or phased site plan application
must be filed as part of an application for a specific plan or master
preliminary plan.
      PUBLIC LAND FOR DEDICATION AND OWNERSHIP. Parks, playgrounds, schools,
drainage channels, trails, highways, roads and streets or other areas of land
accepted by the Town Council and dedicated for the public’s use or benefit.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any area on or adjoining a street, road, highway,
alley or pedestrian/bicycle way or other special purpose way or utility
installation owned by, or reserved to, the public for present or future public
use.
      PUBLIC SPACE. A legal open space on the premises, accessible to a public
way or street, such as yards, courts or open spaces permanently devoted to
public use, which abuts the premises and is permanently maintained accessible
to the Fire Department and free of all encumbrances that might interfere with
its use by the Fire Department.
(Source: North Carolina State Building Code, Vol. 1, § 201.3)
      PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.
         (a)   A system for the provision to the public of piped water for
human consumption if the system serves 15 or more service connections or which
regularly serves 25 or more individuals. The term includes:
            1.   Any collection, treatment, storage or distribution facility
under control of the operator of the system and used primarily in connection
with the system; and
            2.   Any collection or pretreatment storage facility not under the
control of the operator of the system which is used primarily in connection
with the system.
         (b)   A public water system is either a “community water system” or a
“non- community water system” as follows.
            1.   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM means a public water system which
serves 15 or more service connections or which regularly serves at least 25
year-round residents.
            2.   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM means a public water system which
is not a community water system.
(G.S. § 130A-313)
      RESERVATION. Reservation of land does not involve any transfer of
property rights. It constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY.
         (a)   A general term denoting land, property or interest therein,
usually in a strip, acquired for or devoted to transportation purposes;
         (b)   The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian; and
         (c)   For purposes of this chapter, the RIGHT-OF-WAY for streets shall
mean and refer to the boundaries of any right-of-way certified and/or
registered by the NCDOT pursuant to G.S. § 136-19.4, a right-of-way recorded by
the town for roads or streets, or a right-of-way reserved in a recorded
subdivision plat. If no such documentation exists, or if such documentation
cannot be located, the RIGHT-OF-WAY shall mean and refer to the edge of the
paved surface of the street.
      ROAD. A public or private highway, hard-surface road, dirt road or
railroad.
(G.S. § 143B-135.146)
      ROADWAY. The improved portion of a street within a right-of-way and/or
easement.
      SEWAGE.
         (a)   Water-carried human waste discharged, transmitted and collected
from residences, buildings, industrial establishments or other places into a
unified sewerage system or an arrangement for sewage disposal or a group of
such sewerage arrangements or systems, together with such ground, surface,
storm or other water as may be present.
(G.S. § 143-213)
         (b)   The term SEWAGE also means the liquid and solid human body waste
and liquid waste generated by water-using fixtures and appliances, including
those associated with flood handling. The term does not include industrial
process wastewater or sewage that is combined with industrial process
wastewater.
(G.S. § 130A-334)
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any plant, system, facility or property used or
useful or having the present capacity for future use in connection with the
collection, treatment, purification or disposal of sewage (including industrial
wastes resulting from any processes of industry, manufacture, trade or business
or from the development of any natural resources), or any integral part
thereof, including, but not limited to, septic tank systems or other on-site
collection or disposal facilities or systems, treatment plants, pumping
stations, intercepting sewers, trunk sewers, pressure lines, mains and all
necessary appurtenances and equipment, and all property, rights, easements and
franchises relating thereto and deemed necessary or convenient by the authority
for the operation thereof.
(G.S. § 162A-2)
      SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force mains,
and all other construction, devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used
for conducting wastes to a point of ultimate disposal. The term SEWER SYSTEM
shall also include both sewers and sewage disposal systems.
(G.S. § 143-213)
      SEWERS. Mains, pipes and laterals for the reception of sewage and
carrying such sewage to an outfall or some part of a sewage disposal system,
including pumping stations where deemed necessary by the authority.
(G.S. § 162A-2)
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street or cross walkway, paved or otherwise
surfaced, intended for pedestrian use only.
      SKETCH PLAN. A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat or site plan
(or final plat or site plan in the case of minor subdivisions or conditional
use permits) to enable the subdivider to save time and expense in reaching
general agreement with the platting authority as to the form of the plat and
the objectives of this chapter.
      STREET. Any public thoroughfare, street, avenue or boulevard which has
been dedicated or deeded to the public for public use. Includes any ROAD.
(Source: North Carolina State Building Code, Vol. 1, § 201.3)
      STREET FRONTAGE. The distance for which a lot line of a lot adjoins a
public street, from one lot line intersecting said street to the furthest
distance lot line intersecting the same street.
      SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVIDE LAND. The act or process of creating a
subdivision.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
         (a)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly,
to be divided into a subdivision;
         (b)   Directly or indirectly, sells, leases or develops, or offers to
sell, lease or develop, or advertises to sell, lease or develop, any interest,
lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision;
         (c)   Engages directly or through an agent in the business of selling,
leasing, developing or offering for sale, lease or development a subdivision or
any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; and
         (d)   Is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development whether immediate or future, and all divisions of land involving
the dedication of a new street or change in existing streets; provided,
however, that, the following shall not be included within this definition:
         (a)   The combination or re-combination of portions of previously
platted subdivided or recorded lots where the total number of lots is not
increased and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this
chapter;
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved;
         (c)   The public acquisition, by purchase, of strips of land for the
widening or the opening of streets; and
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is
no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-
of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of this chapter.
(G.S. § 160A-376)
(Ord. passed - -, App. A)
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.020 GENERAL.
   (A)   The Administrator shall promulgate submittal requirements,
instructions for completing forms and internal procedures for acceptance and
filing of applications. Additional information may be required for particular
applications. Necessary forms for all applications for:
      (1)   Administrative permits;
      (2)   Applications for Board of Adjustment Review;
      (3)   Applications for Planning Board review; and
      (4)   Applications for Town Council review.
   (B)   All such forms/applications shall be shall be maintained at the office
of the Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -, App. B-1)
§ 154.021 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Preliminary plat. The subdivider shall submit 25 folded copies of a
preliminary subdivision plat to the Planning Department for processing and
referral to affected agencies along with the appropriate subdivision plat
review fee and application. One Mylar should be submitted after approval has
been granted by the Planning and Zoning Board and all conditions placed on the
plat have been satisfactorily met. Preliminary plats shall be prepared by a
professional landscape architect, professional engineer and/or registered land
surveyor.
      (2)   Final plat. Once the Town Engineer or his or her designee has
deemed the project to be substantially complete, the subdivider shall submit
five folded copies with the appropriate subdivision review fee. If a
subdivision improvement agreement (letter of credit, cash escrow or surety
bond) is required, the subdivider shall submit all required information with
application. Two Mylars should be submitted after approval has been granted.
Final plats shall be prepared by a professional landscape architect,
professional engineer and/or registered land surveyor.
      (3)   Construction plans. The subdivider shall furnish the town
department ten copies of all construction plans and specifications, prepared
and endorsed by a certified professional engineer, licensed as such by the
state. The construction plans shall delineate and describe in complete detail
all aspects of grading, clearing, drainage and physical improvements proposed
both on and off-site, as required in relation to the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Requirements for a sketch plan.
      (1)   Sketch plans shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than
100 feet to an inch. Supporting information required by this section may allow
for a larger scale.
      (2)   Contents required:
         (a)   Type of development;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of developer and designer;
         (c)   Graphic and written scale;
         (d)   Proposed name of subdivision;
         (e)   Current zoning and district lines;
         (f)   Total acreage of the site;
         (g)   Total number of proposed lots/units and the approximate location
and dimensions of all proposed or existing lots;
         (h)   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision;
         (i)   Whenever the sketch plan covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, the proposed subdivision or
development area, together with its proposed utilities and street system, and
an indication of the probable future street system, and an indication of the
probable future utilities and street and drainage system of the remaining
portion of the tract;
         (j)   Approximate topography; and
         (k)   Existing utilities available to the site and preliminary
proposals for connection with existing water supply and sanitary sewage
systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and sanitary waste
treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for collecting and discharging
surface water drainage.
   (C)   Requirements for preliminary plat.
      (1)   No specific size requirements apply to preliminary plats.
Preliminary plats shall be prepared at a scale of one inch equals 100 feet, or
a scale for which one inch equals a distance less than 100 feet. The
preliminary plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor and shall
depict or contain the information set forth below. Incomplete plans shall be
returned to the subdivider without further review until revised and
resubmitted; provided, however, that, engineering plans required may be
submitted after approval of a preliminary subdivision plat by the Planning and
Zoning Board when such approval is made subject to the submission of said
engineering plans and approval of same by the Director of Engineering and Water
Resources and/or the Director of Electric Systems.
      (2)   Contents required:
         (a)   Legend, title and revision number;
         (b)   Location map showing relationship of subdivision to the city and
surrounding area;
         (c)   Tract boundaries shown by a heavy line including all bearings
and distances;
         (d)   Existing and proposed property lines, any structures,
watercourses, railroads, bridges, culverts and storm drains on the tract and on
adjoining property within 100 feet;
         (e)   Lot lines and scaled dimensions, lot numbers;
         (f)   Proposed street names, right-of-way and pavement widths and
typical cross-sections;
         (g)   Existing streets on subject and adjoining properties including
right-of-way and pavement width;
         (h)   Proposed easements or rights-of-way other than for streets
(e.g., for drainage, storm water detention, utilities, pedestrian ways,
buffers); location, width and purpose;
         (i)   Zoning classification and district lines on the tract and
adjoining properties;
         (j)   Names and PINs of adjoining property owners and subdivisions
both proposed and of record;
         (k)   Site calculations, including:
            1.   Total acreage;
            2.   Number of lots in each phase;
            3.   Total number of lots in the subdivision;
            4.   Acreage in lots;
            5.   Acreage in street rights-of-way;
            6.   Linear feet of each individual street; and
            7.   Anticipated date of final platting.
         (l)   The location and size of parks, school sites, open space areas
and the like and their ownership;
         (m)   Existing topography at a contour interval of two feet;
         (n)   Boundaries of floodways and 100-year floodplains;
         (o)   Proposed location of water, sanitary sewer systems;
         (p)   Building setbacks (in table format); and
         (q)   Proposed street names on the street/subdivision name(s) review
form. See §
154.088(B)(15) of this chapter.
   (D)   Requirements for a final plat; contents required.
      (1)   Legend containing subdivision names, vicinity map, legal
description including township, county and state, the date or dates of survey,
the date of any revisions to plat, a north arrow and declaration, scale in feet
per inch and bar graph, the name and address of the owner(s) and the name,
address, registration number and seal of engineer and/or surveyor;
      (2)   Exact boundary lines of tract in heavy line, full dimensions by
lengths and bearings and intersecting boundaries of adjoining lands;
      (3)   Street names, right-of-way lines, pavement widths of tract and
adjacent streets and the location and dimensions of all easements;
      (4)   Accurate descriptions and locations of all monuments, markers and
control points;
      (5)   Location, purpose and dimensions of areas to be used for other than
residential purposes;
      (6)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved boundary, street and setback line including
dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radius, central angles and tangent
distances for the centerline of curved streets and curved property lines that
are not the boundary of curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the
nearest tenth and angles to the nearest minute;
      (7)   Boundaries of floodways and 100-year floodplains;
      (8)   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision;
      (9)   The names of owners of adjoining properties;
      (10)   Building setbacks (in table format);
      (11)   Site calculations, including:
         (a)   Total acreage;
         (b)   Total number of lots;
         (c)   Acreage in lots;
         (d)   Acreage in street rights-of-way; and
         (e)   Linear feet of each individual street.
      (12)   The following certificates shall appear on all copies of the plat.
Divisions (D)(12)(a) and (D)(12)(b) below shall be signed when submitted.
Divisions (D)(12)(c), (D)(12)(d), (D)(12)(e) and (D)(12)(f) below will be
signed when the plat is approved.
         (a)    Certificate of ownership and dedication.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-726.png]
 
         (b)    Certificate of survey and accuracy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-732.png]
 
         (c)    Certificate of streets, water and sewer system approval and
other improvements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-734.png]
 
         (d)    Certificate of final plat approval.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-736.png]
 
         (e)    Plat Review Officer certificate (as required by G.S. § 47-
30.2).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-738.png]
 
(Ord. passed - -, App. B-2)
§ 154.022 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Final plat.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit 15 folded copies of a minor
subdivision plat or conveyance plat to the Administrator for processing, along
with the appropriate subdivision plat review fee and application.
         (b)   If a subdivision improvement agreement (letter of credit, cash
escrow or surety bond) is required due to incomplete installation of utility
extensions, the subdivider shall submit all required information with
application.
         (c)   Two Mylars should be submitted after approval has been granted.
      (2)   Construction plans (if applicable). If utility extensions are
required, the subdivider shall furnish the town department ten copies of all
engineering plans and specifications, prepared and endorsed by a certified
professional engineer, licensed as such by the state. The engineering plans
shall delineate and describe in complete detail all aspects of grading,
clearing, drainage and physical improvements proposed both on and off-site, as
required in relation to the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Requirements for a sketch plan.
      (1)   Sketch plans shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than
100 feet to an inch. Supporting information required by this section may allow
for a larger scale.
      (2)   Contents required:
         (a)   Type of development;
         (b)   Name, address and telephone number of developer and designer;
         (c)   Graphic and written scale;
         (d)   Proposed name of subdivision;
         (e)   Current zoning and district lines;
         (f)   Total acreage of the site;
         (g)   Total number of proposed lots/units and the approximate location
and dimensions of all proposed or existing lots;
         (h)   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for park or playground use or other public use,
or for the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision;
         (i)   Whenever the sketch plan covers only a part of an applicant’s
contiguous holdings, the applicant shall submit, the proposed subdivision or
development area, together with its proposed utilities and street system, and
an indication of the probable future street system, and an indication of the
probable future utilities and street and drainage system of the remaining
portion of the tract;
         (j)   Approximate topography;
         (k)   Existing utilities available to the site and preliminary
proposals for connection with existing water supply and sanitary sewage
systems, or alternative means of providing water supply and sanitary waste
treatment and disposal; preliminary provisions for collecting and discharging
surface water drainage; and
         (l)   Proposed street names on the street/subdivision name(s) review
form, if necessary.
   (C)   Requirements for a final plat; contents required.
      (1)   Legend containing subdivision names, vicinity map, legal
description including township county and state, the date or dates of survey,
the date of any revisions to plat, a north arrow and declaration, scale in feet
per inch and bar graph, the name and address of the owner(s) and the name,
address, registration number and seal of engineer and/or surveyor;
      (2)   Exact boundary lines of tract in heavy line, full dimensions by
lengths and bearings and intersecting boundaries of adjoining lands;
      (3)   Street names, right-of-way lines and the location and dimensions of
all easements;
      (4)   Accurate descriptions and locations of all monuments, markers and
control points;
      (5)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved boundary, street and setback line including
dimensions, bearings or deflection angels, radius, central angles and tangent
distances for the centerline of curved streets and curved property lines that
are not the boundary of curved streets. All dimensions shall be measured to the
nearest tenth and angles to the nearest minute;
      (6)   Boundaries of floodways and 100-year floodplains;
      (7)   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision;
      (8)   The names of owners of adjoining properties;
      (9)   Building setbacks (in table format);
      (10)   Site calculations, including:
         (a)   Total acreage; and
         (b)   Total number of lots.
      (11)   The following certificates shall appear on the plat. Divisions (C)
(11)(a), (C)(11)(b) and (C)(11)(c) below shall be signed when submitted.
Division (C)(11)(d) below will be signed when plat is approved.
         ( a)    Certificate of ownership and dedication.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-740.jpg]
 
         (b)    Certificate of survey and accuracy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-742.jpg]
 
          (c)   Certificate of final plat approval. Upon approval of the minor
subdivision final plat, by the Planning Director and Town Public Works Director
or designee, the following signed certificate shall be shown on each copy of
the plat reflecting such approval:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-744.jpg]
 
         (d)    Plat Review Officer certificate (as required by G.S. § 47-
30.2).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-746.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -, App. B-3)
CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 154.035 CRITERIA FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter that land to be subdivided shall be
of a character that it can be used safely for building purposes without danger
to health or peril from fire, flood or other menace, and land shall not be
subdivided until adequate public facilities and improvements are existing or
proposed, and proper provision has been made for drainage, water, sewerage and
capital improvements such as schools, parks, recreational facilities,
transportation facilities and improvements. Accordingly, the Administrator or
Town Council shall not approve a subdivision plat unless all of the following
findings with respect to the proposed development are made:
      (1)   The proposed land uses are in accord with the adopted Comprehensive
Plan and the official zoning map, or that the means for reconciling any
differences have been addressed. A preliminary plat may be processed
concurrently with a rezoning request;
      (2)   The proposed subdivision conforms to all relevant requirements of
this chapter and to any variances that have been granted to permit any non-
conformance. The plat shall meet all requirements of this chapter with respect
to lot size and area and in no way create a violation of any applicable current
ordinances, statutes or regulations;
      (3)   The proposed development, including its lot sizes, density, access
and circulation, are compatible with the existing and/or permissible future use
of adjacent property; and
      (4)   The proposed subdivision will not have detrimental impacts on the
safety or viability of permitted uses on adjacent properties.
   (B)   The soils and topography have been adequately studied to ensure that
all lots are developable for their designated purposes. Any land located within
Zone A as shown on the currently adopted Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps of
the Flood Insurance Study, is determined to be suitable for its intended use
and that the proposed subdivision adequately mitigates the risks of flooding,
inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential or any other floodplain-related risks to
the health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the proposed
subdivision in a manner consistent with this chapter, as described in the
Floodplain Ordinance of the town.
   (C)   The proposed name of a subdivision shall be approved by the County E-
911 Coordinator(s) and shall not use a word, or phrase, which is the same as,
similar to or pronounced the same as a word or phrase in the name of any other
subdivision in the county or any municipality or jurisdiction in the county.
Proposed subdivisions may only use a duplicate subdivision name in the event
that the Administrator requires the use of the same name for purposes of clear
identification.
   (D)   In considering an application for a subdivision plat, the decision-
making agency shall consider and may impose modifications or conditions to the
extent that such modifications or conditions are necessary to ensure compliance
with the criteria of this section.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.2)
§ 154.036 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   “Minor subdivision” defined. A MINOR SUBDIVISION is defined as a
subdivision involving no new public street right-of-way dedications (except
widening of existing, platted street rights-of-way).
   (B)   Utility extensions permitted under a minor plat. A utility extension
shall be defined as the extension of a water or sewer line that falls under the
ownership and maintenance of the town and shall require permitting by the state
(or the town if approved by the state for “self-permitting”). Such extension
shall require a right-of-way or easement. If applicable, utility extensions
shall be allowed under a minor plat review; provided that:
      (1)   All construction drawings for utility extensions are submitted and
approved in accordance with §
154.037(K) of this chapter;
      (2)   All lines/improvements are constructed in accordance §
154.037(K) of this chapter; and
      (3)   A final plat shall not be approved until all utility extension
improvements have been inspected and accepted in accordance with §
154.037(K) through (P) of this chapter.
   (C)   General submission requirements. Applications for sketch plat and
final plat approval shall be submitted to the Administrator for completeness
review. Sections
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter outlines the information that is to be submitted with
an application for any type of subdivision plat. The Administrator shall
determine whether the application is complete and complies with the submission
requirements set forth in §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter. If the application is incomplete or the submission
requirements have not been complied with, the Administrator shall so notify the
applicant, specifying the deficiencies. Incomplete and/or non-compliant
submissions shall not be processed.
   (D)   Sketch plat submission requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with the
Administrator to discuss a sketch plan. The Administrator shall also advise the
applicant, when appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision with those
officials who must eventually approve those aspects of the subdivision plat
coming within their jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Administrator, upon consultation with the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, shall issue either the notice to proceed or a
notice of non-compliance not later than 15 days after the date on which the
sketch plat was submitted to the Administrator. The Administrator shall issue a
notice to proceed only if the sketch plat complies with all applicable laws
governing the subdivision of land. The approval shall include, as appropriate,
recommended changes in the sketch plat to be incorporated into the final
(conveyance) plat. Subsequent to an approval, the applicant may proceed
directly to the filing of an application for approval of a final subdivision
plat (conveyance plat) as provided in these regulations. If the sketch plat of
a minor subdivision is denied by the Administrator, the applicant may appeal to
Planning and Zoning Board. The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the
application and shall affirm or reverse the decision of the Administrator. The
applicant shall have one year from the date that the sketch plat is approved to
submit a conveyance plat, after which time a new sketch plat must be submitted
for approval.
   (E)   Final plat submission requirements.
      (1)   In order to provide a simplified review procedure, submission of a
final plat may be in the form of:
         (a)   A standard plat in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter; or
         (b)   A conveyance plat in accordance with the provisions of §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter, subject to the following limitations.
      (2)   If the Administrator finds that the sketch plat meets the
requirements of a minor subdivision and that there are no adverse effects on
the remainder of the parcel or on adjoining property, then the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of a conveyance plat. A subdivision shall be
deemed to have no adverse affects on the remainder of the parcel or on
adjoining property if:
         (a)   The subdivision meets the definition of minor subdivision as set
forth in division (A) above;
         (b)   The subdivision contains no critical areas (see definitions) on
any portion of the property to be subdivided or developed;
         (c)   The conveyance plat shall be recorded in the same manner, and
shall be subject to the same restrictions, as a final plat (see division (F)
below); and
         (d)   The conveyance plat shall comply in all respects with the sketch
plan.
   (F)   Final plat approval. The Administrator, upon consultation with the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall render a determination as
to whether the plat is approved, approved with conditions or denied pursuant to
§
154.035 of this chapter of this application shall be processed within the time
period specified herein. If a plat is approved, the Administrator (Planning
Director) and the Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall certify
such approval by signing the plat. If disapproved, the Administrator shall
advise the subdivider of such action and shall indicate the reasons for denial.
   (G)   Recording a final plat.
      (1)   Within 30 days of final plat approval, the applicant shall file the
plat with the Register of Deeds as provided by law. The final plat approval
shall expire within the above-referenced time period, unless the Administrator
has granted an extension. The Administrator may grant up to two extensions of
final plat approval, each of up to six months. Failure to record the final plat
within the time frame noted shall cause the final plat approval to be void.
      (2)   The applicant shall return a reproducible (Mylar) copy of the
recorded plat to the office of the Administrator.
      (3)   No zoning clearance permit or building permit may be issued or
approved until the expiration of ten business days after a final plat has been
recorded. The purpose of this time period is to permit the assignment of
addresses and PINs (parcel identification numbers) in the Land Records GIS
Office of the county.
Minor Subdivision Plat Review Process
(subdivision does not include water and/or sewer utility extensions)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-748.jpg]
 
Minor Subdivision Plat Review Process
(subdivision does include water and/or sewer utility extensions)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-750.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.3)
§ 154.037 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)    “Major subdivisions” defined. All land subdivisions that are not
exempted by state statute or previously described under the minor subdivision
procedures shall be processed as a major subdivision.
   (B)    General submission requirements. Applications for sketch plat and
final plat approval shall be submitted to the Administrator for completeness
review. Sections
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter outlines the information that is to be submitted with
an application for any type of subdivision plat. The Administrator shall
determine whether the application is complete and complies with the submission
requirements set forth in §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter. If the application is incomplete or the submission
requirements have not been complied with, the Administrator shall so notify the
applicant, specifying the deficiencies. Incomplete and/or non-compliant
submissions shall not be processed.
   (C)   Sketch plat submission procedures for major plats.
      (1)   The applicant shall schedule an appointment and meet with the
Administrator to discuss a sketch plan. The Administrator shall also advise the
applicant, when appropriate, to discuss the proposed subdivision with those
officials who must eventually approve those aspects of the subdivision plat
coming within their jurisdiction.
      (2)   The Administrator shall issue a notice to proceed only if the
sketch plat complies with all applicable laws governing the subdivision of land
and upon recommendation from the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee. The approval shall include, as appropriate, recommended changes in
the sketch plat to be incorporated into the preliminary plat to assist the
applicant in obtaining preliminary plat approval from the Town Council. If the
Administrator determines that the sketch plat does not comply with all
applicable laws governing the subdivision of land and the applicant refuses to
modify the sketch plat, the Administrator shall issue a notice of non-
compliance. The Administrator shall issue either the notice to proceed or a
notice of non-compliance not later than 20 days after the date on which the
sketch plat was submitted to the Administrator. After receipt of a notice of
approval, the applicant shall be eligible to file an application for approval
of a preliminary plat, as provided in these regulations, before filing for
final subdivision plat approval.
   (D)   Preliminary plat submission procedures for major plats.
      (1)   If the Administrator has issued a notice to proceed for a sketch
plat for a major subdivision, then the subdivider may proceed with the
preparation of a preliminary plat.
      (2)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be required for any tract
where the eventual platting of the property involves a major subdivision. No
final plat shall be approved until a preliminary plat for the property has been
approved.
      (3)   Sections
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter establishes the information that is to be submitted
with an application for approval of a preliminary plat.
      (4)   Upon final approval, a preliminary plat shall be made a matter of
record as follows.
         (a)   The reasons for approval, disapproval or approval with
conditions shall be maintained on file with the Administrator.
         (b)   The approved plat shall be indexed and filed by the
Administrator.
   (E)   Scope of preliminary plat approval.
      (1)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Town Council shall allow a
subdivider to proceed with:
         (a)   The preparation of the final plat;
         (b)   Site preparation/grading (subject to obtaining grading permit
and/or erosion control permit as required); and
         (c)   The installation of required improvements (subject to approval
of construction drawings as described in division (E)(7) below).
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Town Council without
approved construction plans as set forth in division (K) below shall not
constitute the necessary approval for submittal of the final plat.
      (3)   Should the plat be approved subject to conditions or labeling
corrections, the plat shall be revised and resubmitted to the Administrator
with all corrections within 60 days of the Town Council’s approval. Failure to
return a corrected plat within this time period shall constitute a violation
and shall be remedied in accordance with §§
154.065 through
154.074 of this chapter. Additionally, no final plat may be approved until a
corrected copy of the preliminary plat has been filed with the Administrator.
      (4)   The preliminary plat shall serve as a guide in the preparation of
the final subdivision plat, which must be submitted for final approval and
recordation upon fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   The preliminary plat shall be valid for the period prescribed
hereby. A preliminary plat shall become void if a final plat is not approved
within the specified time period. Final approval of a phase or portion of a
preliminary plat shall re-establish the date for measuring the time period of a
preliminary plat approval.
      (6)   The Town Council may approve a staging plan extending the effective
period of the preliminary plat approval up to two years where it is the intent
of the landowners to proceed to final plats covering only a portion of the
tract at any one time. Beyond two years, the applicant shall resubmit the
preliminary plat to the Administrator for review by the Planning and Zoning
Board and Town Council.
 
Time Limits for Major Subdivision Plat Approvals
Type of Approval Time Limit of Approval
Preliminary plat Two years to get final plat approved
Final plat       30 days to record
 
      (7)   The Town Council may grant a one-year extension after a review and
recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Board. After expiration of a one-year
extension, a previously approved preliminary plat shall become void.
   (F)   Revising approved preliminary plats.
      (1)   Minor amendments. The Administrator shall have the authority to
approve the following deviations from an approved preliminary plat and subject
to the conditions below and as listed in division (F)(2) below:
         (a)   A change in the location of not more than 10% of the number of
lots;
         (b)   A change in the location of any part of open space acreage of
not more than 10% of the gross acreage;
         (c)   A change in the location of any part of proposed street
alignment and lot configuration of not more than 10% of the gross acreage so
long as the number of external access points is not decreased and the minimum
street connectivity ratio is maintained; or
         (d)   Changes are restricted to within internal parcel boundaries and
shall not affect external property lines.
      (2)   Filing and approval. All other changes to an approved preliminary
plat that do not meet the standards of division (G) below shall require the
filing and approval of a new preliminary plat.
   (G)   Final plat submission procedures for major plats.
      (1)   There shall be a final plat for each subdivision which receives
preliminary plat approval. No final subdivision plat shall be recorded until a
final plat has been approved as provided in this section.
      (2)   The materials required by §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Administrator for a
determination as to whether it complies with the approved preliminary plat. The
subdivider may submit final plat copies for only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which is proposed for recordation and development at that
time, if such portion conforms to all requirements of this chapter. The final
plat shall conform to the approved preliminary plat. Any deviation from the
approved preliminary plat which does not constitute a minor amendment as set
forth in division (F)(1) above shall require additional review the Planning and
Zoning Board and approval by the Town Council.
      (3)   The Administrator may find the application incomplete if:
         (a)   Any of the information required for final plats in §§
154.020 through
154.022 of this chapter is not provided;
         (b)   The final plat does not conform to the conditions attached to
approval of the preliminary plat; or
         (c)   The plat is in conflict with the provisions of this chapter and
no variance been approved.
      (4)   Upon submittal of the copies of the final plat and other required
materials, the Administrator shall review the application for completeness and
shall initiate and coordinate review by affected town and state agencies in
order to determine substantial compliance with the approved preliminary plat
and general compliance with the provisions of this chapter and other applicable
laws and regulations.
      (5)   The final plat and related materials shall be approved or
disapproved by the Administrator within the time period set forth herein.
Approval shall be in the form of a written letter to the subdivider (or contact
person as listed on application) advising that the final plat meets all town
and state requirements and that the original of the final plat may be submitted
to the Administrator.
      (6)   The Administrator shall sign the plat. The action of the
Administrator shall be noted on all copies of the final plat to be retained as
required for records or further action of the department or other affected
agencies of the town or state. Following execution of the final plat, the
applicant shall record it with the Register of Deeds.
      (7)   Except as provided in division (O) below, all applicants shall be
required to complete, to the satisfaction of the Administrator and Director of
Public Works or their designee, all street, sanitary, and other public
improvements of the subdivision as required by this chapter before the final
plat is recorded.
      (8)   As a condition of final plat approval, the Administrator may
require the applicant to: in the event the applicant is unable to complete the
required improvements, and such improvements are deemed necessary for the
preservation of the public health and safety, the town may compel the delivery
of the deed and guarantees in order to complete the improvements as required.
      (9)   (a)    The final subdivision plat application shall be accompanied
by all formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of all streets,
local government uses, utilities, parks and easements, in a form approved by
the Town Attorney; and the subdivision plat shall be marked with a notation
indicating the formal offers of dedication as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-756.jpg]
 
         (b)   The applicant shall deliver a full covenant and warranty deed to
all dedicated lands and improvements in proper form for recording.
      (10)   In addition to the criteria as set forth in §
154.035 of this chapter, the Administrator shall not approve a final plat
unless and until satisfactory evidence is filed that the final plat is in a
form acceptable for recording with the Register of Deeds, and that all
improvements have been satisfactorily installed or subdivision improvement
agreements have been signed by the applicant. The subdivider will also be
required to submit a final subdivision plat fee, payment of all design costs
for improvements, and appropriate performance surety.
      (11)   The final plat shall comply with any staging or sequence plan set
forth in the preliminary plat.
      (12)   The applicant shall place reference monuments in the subdivision
as required by G.S. § 47-30.
   (H)   Phasing of a preliminary plat. Whenever a subdivider applies for
approval of a final plat which contains only a portion of the land encompassed
in the approved preliminary plat, the final plat shall coincide with phase
lines as established on the preliminary plat. Phasing of a preliminary plat
shall not be permitted unless the phase lines are established and approved
under the action of the Town Council.
   (I)   Recording a final plat.
      (1)   Within the time period prescribed hereby, after final plat
approval, the applicant shall file the plat with the Register of Deeds as
provided by law. The final plat approval shall expire within the above-
referenced time period, unless the Administrator has granted an extension.
Failure to record the final plat within the time frame noted shall cause the
final plat approval to be void and shall require a new application.
      (2)   The applicant shall return a reproducible (Mylar) copy of the
recorded plat to the office of the Administrator.
      (3)   Final plats for major subdivisions shall be reviewed by a Review
Officer in the same manner as set forth in G.S. § 47-30(g).
   (J)   Scope of approval for final plat.
      (1)   Approval of the final plat for a subdivision or section thereof
shall not be deemed to be acceptance by the town or state of any street, alley,
public space, utility or other physical improvements shown on the final plat
and engineering plans for the maintenance, repair or operation thereof. (See
division (M) below for acceptance.)
      (2)   No zoning clearance permit or building permit shall be issued or
approved until the expiration of ten business days after a final plat has been
recorded. The purpose of this time period is to permit the assignment of
addresses and PINs (parcel identification numbers) in the Land Records Office
of the county.
   (K)   Construction plans.
      (1)   Following approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant shall
have prepared, by a professional engineer, registered in the state,
construction plans, consisting of complete construction drawings and
specifications of all easements, streets, traffic-control devices, street
lights, sanitary sewers, storm water facilities, water system facilities,
sidewalks and other improvements required by §§
154.085 through
154.089 of this chapter and any additional technical manuals as adopted by the
town. Construction plans shall be submitted to the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee for review and approval as an administrative permit. All
improvements required pursuant to these regulations shall be constructed in
accordance with the applicable requirements of this chapter and, where
applicable, the requirements and authorization of the appropriate state agency,
utility company or local franchisee.
      (2)   The Administrator shall delegate the authority to review and
approve all construction plan applications to the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee.
      (3)   All installations of improvements shall conform to the approved
construction plans. If the applicant chooses to make modifications in design
and/or specifications prior to construction, such changes shall be subject to
review and approval by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee. It
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the Administrator in
advance of any changes to be made from the approved drawings. In the event that
actual construction work deviates from that shown on the approved construction
plans, such unapproved work shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
shall be remedied in accordance with §§
154.065 through
154.074 of this chapter. The applicant shall be required to correct the
installed improvements to conform to the approved construction plans. In
addition, the Administrator may take such other actions as may be deemed
appropriate including, but not limited to, revocation of permits already issued
and/or withholding of future approvals and permits until the violation is
corrected.
      (4)   Prior to final inspection of the required improvements, the
applicant shall submit to the Administrator one electronic version and two
prints of as-built engineering drawings for each of the required improvements
that have been completed. Each set of drawings shall be re-certified by the
applicant’s engineer indicating the date when the as-built survey was made.
         (a)   As-built drawings shall show the constructed vertical elevation,
horizontal location and size of all sanitary and storm sewers, manholes,
inlets, junction boxes, detention basins and other appurtenances or elements of
the sewerage and storm drainage systems constructed to serve the subdivision.
In conjunction with the submittal of engineering plans and specifications, the
subdivider shall be required to demonstrate compliance with the sedimentation
control standards of the overall area proposed to be developed. The subdivider
shall cause all grading, excavations, open cutting and similar land surface
disturbances to be mulched, seeded, sodded or otherwise protected to ensure
compliance with the county’s sedimentation control standards. No work shall be
initiated relative to the preparation of land or the installation of general
improvements until such time as all aspects of the subdivider’s engineering
plans and sedimentation control proposals have received approval.
         (b)   As-built drawings shall depict water lines, valves, fire
hydrants and other appurtenances or elements of the water distribution system
constructed to serve the project. Such information shall include the horizontal
location and size of water lines and location and description of valves with
dimensional ties.
         (c)   As-built drawings shall depict the location of all street
rights-of-way, alignments, widths and vertical elevations.
         (d)   As-built drawings shall show all control points and
monumentation.
   (L)   Inspection of improvements.
      (1)   During the preparation of land and the installation of general
improvements, periodic inspections shall be made to ensure conformity with the
approved plans, specifications and standards. Appropriate agencies of the town
and state may make inspections at any time during the progress of work.
      (2)   All improvements required by these regulations shall be inspected
prior to acceptance by the town. Where inspections are made by individuals or
agencies, other than the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, the
applicant shall provide the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
with written reports of each final inspection. The developer shall pay for a
third party inspector acceptable to the town to perform daily inspections on
all construction performed.
      (3)   Prior to beginning construction, the applicant shall arrange with
the Director of Public Works or his or her designee a pre-construction meeting
for the purpose of coordinating construction activities.
      (4)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee of the commencement of
construction of improvements one full working day prior thereto. Inspections
shall be required at each of the following stages of construction or as
otherwise determined through and owner contract or development improvement
agreement:
         (a)   Site grading/erosion control completion;
         (b)   Underground utility installation;
         (c)   Subgrade preparation prior to aggregate base installation;
         (d)   Aggregate base compaction;
         (e)   Concrete curb and gutter installation;
         (f)   Bituminous binder placing; and
         (g)   Final surfacing prior to seal coat.
      (5)   The applicant or the bonded construction contractor shall bear full
and final responsibility for the installation and construction of all required
improvements according to the provisions of these regulations and the standards
and specifications of other public agencies.
   (M)   Acceptance of improvements.
      (1)   Approval of the installation of improvements by the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee shall not constitute acceptance by the town
of the improvement for dedication purposes. The installation of improvements in
any subdivision shall, in no case, serve to bind the town to accept such
improvements for maintenance, repair or operation thereof. Such acceptance
shall be subject to the existing regulations concerning the acceptance of each
type of improvement.
      (2)   The specific standards for acceptance of easements shall be subject
to the technical design standards of this chapter and any other adopted policy
or manual of the town. All easements shall be in full compliance with this
chapter prior to acceptance.
      (3)   The town shall not have any responsibility with respect to any
street, or other improvement, notwithstanding the use of the same by the
public, unless the street or other improvements have been accepted.
      (4)   Only when improvements have been constructed in accordance with the
requirements and conditions of these regulations and the specifications of this
chapter, a minimum of 80% build-out along the public street has been achieved,
and the applicant has submitted as-built drawings to the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee, shall the Town Council accept the improvements
for maintenance by the town; except that, this shall not apply to improvements
maintained by another entity.
      (5)   These provisions shall not be construed to relieve the subdivider
or the subdivider’s agent or contractor of any responsibility in notifying any
agency for the town of completed work and formal request for inspection of
same. The agency having jurisdiction shall inspect and approve all completed
work prior to the release of any applied performance sureties.
   (N)   Site cleanup. The applicant shall be responsible for removal of all
equipment, material and general construction debris from the subdivision and
from any lot, street, public way or property therein or adjacent thereto.
Dumping of such debris into sewers, onto adjacent property or onto other land
in the town is prohibited.
   (O)   Subdivision improvement agreements.
      (1)   The Administrator shall delegate the authority to review and
approve all subdivision improvement agreements to the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee may delay the
requirement for the completion of required improvements prior to recordation of
the final plat if the applicant enters into a subdivision improvement agreement
by which the applicant covenants and agrees to complete all required on-site
and off-site public improvements no later than one year following the date upon
which the final plat is recorded. Such period may be extended for up to an
additional six months upon its expiration at the discretion of the Director of
Public Works or his or her designee. The applicant shall bear the
responsibility to prepare a subdivision improvement agreement. The Town
Attorney shall approve any subdivision improvement agreement as to form.
      (3)   In order to provide for emergency access, no subdivision
improvement agreement shall be approved, and no performance guarantee shall be
accepted, until the base course for the streets within the applicable phase for
which a final plat is proposed has been installed.
      (4)   At the discretion of the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee may enter into a
subdivision improvement agreement with the applicant for a development
containing multiple final plats concerning the timing and sequence of roadway,
water, wastewater, drainage, public school and park or open space dedication
and improvements. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the
contrary, the subdivision improvement agreement shall determine the time when
the required improvement or dedication for multiple final plat developments
shall occur.
      (5)   Whenever the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
permits an applicant to enter into a subdivision improvement agreement, the
applicant shall be required to provide sufficient security to ensure completion
of the required public improvements, including, but not limited to, storm water
facilities. The security shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit, cash escrow or a surety bond.
      (6)   The letter of credit, cash escrow or surety bond shall be in an
amount approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee as
reflecting 125% of the cost of the improvements in the approved construction
plan and shall be sufficient to cover all promises and conditions contained in
the subdivision improvement agreement.
      (7)   In addition to all other security, when the town participates in
the cost of an improvement, the applicant shall provide a performance bond from
the contractor, with the town as a co-obligee.
      (8)   The issuer of any surety bond shall be subject to the approval of
the Town Attorney and the Director of Public Works, or their designees.
      (9)   If security is provided in the form of a cash escrow, the applicant
shall deposit with the Town Finance Director a cashier’s or certified check
endorsed to the escrow agent for a face value in an amount not less than the
amount specified by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
      (10)   The surety bond or cash escrow account shall accrue to the town
for administering the construction, operation and maintenance of the
improvements.
      (11)   Where oversized facilities are required, the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee and applicant shall specify a reimbursement
procedure in the subdivision improvement agreement.
      (12)   Upon completion of all improvements as covered by the subdivision
improvement agreement, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
shall inspect the work. If the Director determines that the work is
satisfactory and complete, the letter of credit, cash escrow or surety bond
shall be released. The Director shall also require evidence from the subdivider
that all contractors have been paid in full prior to the release of the
performance security.
      (13)   If a subdivision improvement agreement has been executed and
security has been posted and required public improvements are not installed
pursuant to the terms of the agreement, the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee may:
         (a)   Declare the agreement to be in default 30 days prior to the
expiration of the guarantee instrument, and require that all public
improvements be installed regardless of the extent of completion of the
development at the time the agreement is declared to be in default;
         (b)   Obtain funds pursuant to the surety and complete the public
improvements by itself or through a third party;
         (c)   Assign its right to receive funds pursuant to the surety in
whole or in part to any third party, including a subsequent owner of the
subdivision or addition for whom the public improvements were not constructed,
in exchange for the subsequent owner’s agreement to complete the required
public improvements; and/or
         (d)   Any other rights available under the law.
   (P)   Maintenance guarantee.
      (1)   The Administrator shall delegate the authority to review and
approve all maintenance bonds to the Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
      (2)   The applicant shall guarantee the improvements against defects in
workmanship and materials for a period of one year after the final lift of
asphalt has been installed. In exceptional situations, where undue hardship
would otherwise result and the shorter term would not be inconsistent with the
purposes of this chapter, the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
may approve a shorter-term maintenance guarantee. The maintenance guarantee
shall be secured by a surety bond or cash escrow in an amount reflecting 5% of
the cost of the completed improvements.
      (3)   The applicant shall construct and pay for all costs of temporary
improvements required by the Director of Public Works or his or her designee
and shall maintain said temporary improvements for the period specified by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
      (4)   Thirty days prior to the expiration of the maintenance guarantee
instrument, if any defects in workmanship and/or materials are not repaired to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his or her designee, the
subdivider shall be required to make all necessary repairs immediately.
   (Q)   Subdivision exceptions. (Applies only to preliminary plats for major
subdivisions.)
      (1)   Where the Town Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve exceptions to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured; provided that, the exception shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations; and, further provided that, the
Town Council shall not approve exceptions unless it shall make findings based
upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
         (a)   The granting of the subdivision exception will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health or welfare or injurious to other
property;
         (b)   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally to
other property;
         (c)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out; and
         (d)   The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of
the Comprehensive Plan or official map; except that, those documents may be
amended in the manner prescribed by law.
      (2)   In approving a subdivision exception, the Planning and Zoning Board
and Town Council may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the purposes described in §
154.035 of this chapter.
      (3)   A petition for a subdivision exception shall be submitted in
writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for
consideration. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the application
and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall first consider the application
at a public meeting and the Town Council shall hold a public hearing and shall
approve, approve with conditions or deny the subdivision exception. Said
hearings before the Planning and Zoning Board shall be advisory and the Town
Council shall be considered a quasi-judicial proceeding.
      (5)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Board to the Town Council by filing a notice of appeal with the Administrator.
If the applicant submits a notice of appeal, the Administrator shall schedule
the application for a hearing before the Town Council. The Town Council shall
consider the appeal of the decision of the Planning and Zoning Board at a
public hearing and shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application for a variance. Said hearings before the Town Council shall be
considered a quasi-judicial proceeding.
Major Plat Review Process
(Includes step (1) preliminary plat and step (2) construction drawings. The
next figure includes process for step (3) final plat)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-752.jpg]
 
Major Plat Review Process
(includes process for step (3) final plat. The previous figure includes process
for step (1) preliminary plat and step (2) construction drawings)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-754.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.4)
OPEN SPACE STANDARDS
§ 154.050 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)    The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to an application for a
major subdivision plat approval.
   (B)    The Administrator may require connection to a community open space
network and/or trails system if the proposed development is adjacent to the
boundary of an established community public open space as included in the
County Land Use Plan or relevant document as amended, which is hereby
incorporated by this reference as if set forth in its entirety herein. The open
space/trail system shall be maintained by the applicant or subsequent owners;
provided, however, that, the applicant may request to publicly dedicate any
park or trail specifically delineated in the Parks and Trails Plan.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5A)
§ 154.051 PRESERVATION OF OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Required open space shall be reserved for any major subdivision of
land within the zoning districts set forth in the first column of the table at
the end of §
154.054 of this chapter based upon the percentage of net acres in the proposed
development corresponding the zoning district as set forth in the second column
in the table at the end of §
154.054 of this chapter.
   (B)   Subdivisions with less than three dwelling units, located within one-
fourth of a mile of walking distance from an existing town park may be exempt
from the requirements of this section with three or more dwelling units shall
not be exempt.
   (C)   Open-space areas shall be maintained so that their use and enjoyment
as open space are not diminished or destroyed. Open-space areas may be owned,
preserved and maintained as determined by the Town Council by any of the
following mechanisms or combinations thereof:
      (1)   Dedication of open space to the town, an appropriate public agency,
or a non-profit entity (such as a land conservancy) if such an agency or entity
is willing to accept the dedication and is financially capable of maintaining
such open space; and
      (2)   Common ownership of the open space by a property owner’s
association which assumes full responsibility for its maintenance. The
restrictive covenants shall provide that, in the event the homeowner’s
association fails to maintain the open space according to the standards of this
chapter, the town may, following reasonable notice:
         (a)   Demand that deficiency of maintenance be corrected; or
         (b)   Enter the open space to maintain same. The cost of such
maintenance shall be charged to the homeowners association. Delinquent charges
may be attached as a tax lien as allowed by law.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5B)
§ 154.052 OPEN SPACE CHARACTERISTICS.
   Land designated as open space shall be maintained as open space and may not
be separately sold, subdivided or developed except as provided below.
   (A)   Open space provisions and maintenance plan required. Any areas
reserved as open space shall be indicated on a preliminary and/or final
subdivision plat. An open space provision and maintenance plan shall be
submitted as a part of the application for development approval including the
project phasing schedule. This plan shall designate and indicate the boundaries
of all open-space areas required by this chapter. The plan shall:
      (1)   Designate areas to be reserved as open space. The specific design
of open space areas shall be sensitive to the physical and design
characteristics of the site;
      (2)   Designate the type of open space which will be provided (passive or
active). Passive and active open space are defined as follows.
         (a)   ACTIVE OPEN SPACE. Any park and recreational facility that is
not dependent upon a specific environmental or natural resource, which is
developed with recreation and support facilities that can be provided anywhere
for the convenience of the user. ACTIVE OPEN SPACE areas include, but are not
limited to, playgrounds, bicycle trails, walking/exercise trails, baseball or
softball fields, football or soccer fields, basketball courts, swimming pools,
clubhouses, equestrian facilities and tennis courts.
         (b)   PASSIVE OPEN SPACE. Areas in and located due to the presence of
a particular natural or environmental setting and which may include
conservation lands providing for both active and passive types of resource-
based outdoor recreation activities that are less formalized or program-
oriented than activity-based recreation. PASSIVE OPEN SPACE means and refers to
activities requiring a natural condition that cannot easily be duplicated by
man and includes, but is not limited to, boating, fishing, nature trails and
nature study areas.
      (3)   Specify the manner in which the open space shall be perpetuated,
maintained and administered; and
      (4)   The types of open space which may be provided to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter, together with the maintenance required for each
type, are as follows.
         (a)   Passive open space maintenance is limited to removal of litter,
dead tree and plant materials (that is obstructing pedestrian movement) and
brush; weeding and mowing. Natural watercourses are to be maintained as free-
flowing and devoid of debris. Stream channels shall be maintained so as not to
alter floodplain levels.
         (b)   Active open space areas shall be accessible to all residents of
the development and shall be maintained by the developer, and or the property
or homeowner’s association.
   (B)   Greenways.
      (1)   Greenways connecting residences, schools and recreational areas are
encouraged. Maintenance is limited to a minimum removal and avoidance of
hazards, nuisances or unhealthy conditions.
      (2)   If a subdivision occurs along a corridor that has been identified
by the adopted bicycle, pedestrian, and trail/greenway plan as having a future
greenway, the subdivider shall be responsible for developing the greenway as
part of the subdivision process. The greenway shall, at a minimum, meet the
standards set forth in division (C)(7)(d)below. The acreage associated with the
25-foot easement may count toward the acreage required for public open space in
§
154.054 of this chapter.
   (C)   Spacing and dimensional limitations. In order to ensure that all
designated open space has suitable size, location, dimension, topography and
general character, and proper road and/or pedestrian access, as may be
appropriate, to be usable open space, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Open space should be within one-fourth of a mile from any lot upon
which a dwelling is intended to be built.
      (2)   The minimum dimension for usable open space shall be 25 feet in
width.
      (3)   The percentage of open space comprised of inaccessible land as
defined in §
154.054 shall not exceed the amount set forth in the fourth column of the table
at the end of §
154.054 of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain. A maximum of 10% of the overall required active open space
shall be located in the floodplain.
   (E)   Use of storm water detention basins. Storm water retention areas or
detention basins which may be required shall not qualify as an open space area.
These areas shall be considered inaccessible open space.
   (F)   Required active open space. Subdividers shall be responsible for
making certain improvements to the land they dedicate as open space within
their development for park, playground and public active open space purposes as
follows.
      (1)   A minimum of 0.05 acres of active open space per dwelling unit
(lot) shall be provided for all subdivisions. For example, a subdivision
containing 100 dwelling units shall be required to provide five acres of active
open space for the development (0.05 x 100 lots = 5 acres). Active open space
shall be considered a part of the overall open space required for the
development.
      (2)   Subdividers shall provide finish grading and turf establishment for
all disturbed areas and provide landscaping and/or screening.
      (3)   All proposed trails shall be a designed at a minimum width of ten
feet and shall be paved. In addition, a 25-foot easement shall be provided to
the town for any trail systems that are part of the proposed town greenway
system.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5C)
§ 154.053 ACCESS TO OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   All areas to be preserved for open space be accessible to pedestrians
by one of the following:
      (1)   Frontage (width as required in this section) on a public street
right-of-way; or
      (2)   Recorded pedestrian easement (minimum 15 feet wide).
   (B)   Upon review of the design by the Administrator, additional pedestrian
access points may be required.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5D)
§ 154.054 PUBLIC OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Dedication generally; fee in lieu of dedication generally.
      (1)   All major residential subdivision proposals shall, prior to final
approval of the preliminary plat, dedicate a portion of such land, as set forth
in this chapter, for the purpose of public parks, recreation, greenways and
open space sites to serve the residents of the neighborhood in which the
subdivision is located as well as the town.
      (2)   As an alternative to the dedication of a portion of such land by
the subdivider and where it is determined by the Town Council that a dedication
of land is not feasible in a given plat or incompatible with the town’s Land
Use Plan, the subdivider may make provision for an equitable amount of land in
another location, or pay to the town a fee in lieu of dedication as provided in
division (F) below.
   (B)   Criteria for dedication. All land dedicated for recreation and park
development shall substantially meet the following criteria.
      (1)   Unity. The dedicated land shall form a single parcel of land,
except where the Planning Board determines that a connecting path or strip of
land is in the public interest and, in which case, the path shall not be less
than 25 feet wide.
      (2)   Shape. The shape of the dedicated parcel of land shall be
sufficiently square or round to be usable for recreational activities such as
softball, tennis and the like.
      (3)   Location. The dedicated land shall be located so as to reasonably
serve the recreation and open space needs of the subdivision for which the
dedication was made and shall bear a reasonable relationship to the use of the
area by the future inhabitants of the subdivision or residential development.
      (4)   Access. Public access to the dedicated land shall be provided
either by adjoining street frontage or public easement of at least 30 feet in
width.
      (5)   Topography. No more than one quarter of the gross land dedicated
may be comprised of land deemed to be inaccessible per this chapter or within
the 100-year floodplain. This requirement shall be waived if greenway trails
are being proposed as part of the public open space dedication, so long as the
requirements of §
154.052(B)(1) above are met.
      (6)   Usability. The dedicated land shall be usable for recreation; lakes
may not be included in computing dedicated land area. Where the Planning Board
determines that recreational needs are being adequately met, either by other
dedicated parcels of land or existing recreational facilities, then land that
is not usable for recreation may be dedicated as open space.
      (7)   Plans. Municipal and county plans shall be taken into consideration
when evaluating land proposals for dedication.
   (C)   Criteria for determining dedication and fee. Whether the Town Council
accepts the land dedication or requests payment of a fee in lieu thereof, or a
combination of both, shall be determined by consideration of the following:
      (1)   Recommended improvements in the Parks and Recreation Master Plan
and the Comprehensive Bicycle, Pedestrian and Greenway Plan;
      (2)   Topography, geology, soils, access and location of land in the
subdivision available for dedication;
      (3)   Size and shape of the subdivision and land available for
dedication; and
      (4)   The recommendation of the Planning Board and recommendations from
the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board.
   (D)   Procedure for determining between dedication, combination of
dedication and fee, and fee in lieu of dedication. The procedure for
determining whether the subdivider is to dedicate land, pay a fee, or both,
shall be as follows.
      (1)   Subdivider. At the time of filing a preliminary plat for approval,
the owner of the property shall, as part of such filing, indicate whether he or
she desires to pay a fee in lieu thereof. If the desire is to dedicate land for
this purpose, the dedicated area shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Action of town. At the time of the preliminary plat approval, the
Planning Board shall recommend, based upon staff recommendations, the Town
Council shall determine as part of such approval, whether to require a
dedication of land within the subdivision or accept payment of a fee in lieu
thereof or a combination of both. In cases where the amount of open space is
less than one-third acre (0.33 ac), the Planning Board may require fee payment
as the only option.
      (3)   Prerequisites for approval of final plat. Where dedication is
required, such dedication shall be shown upon the final plat submitted for
approval. Where fees are required, the same shall be deposited with the town
prior to the recording of any final plat.
   (E)   Computation of size of area required for dedication. The amount of
land required to be dedicated is to be computed on the basis of the following
formula: area to be dedicated (in acres) equals one-thirty-fifth of an acre
times the number of dwelling units or lots, whichever is greater.
   (F)   Computation of fee payable in lieu of dedication. Where a fee is paid
in lieu of dedication, the amount of such payment shall be the product of the
number of acres to be dedicated and the average fair market value of the land
being subdivided at the time of submission of the preliminary subdivision plat.
Fair market value shall be determined by the Town Council on the advice of the
Planning Board based upon current appraisals and acceptable to the subdivider.
   (G)   Use by town; sale by town; use of funds received in lieu of
dedication.
      (1)   The land received by the town under this chapter shall be used only
for the purpose of providing open space, park and recreational areas, but shall
not be so restricted should the town decide to sell such land as provided by
division (G)(2) below.
      (2)   The town shall have the right to sell any land dedicated to the
town for park and recreation purposes on finding by the Planning Board and the
Town Council that a particular piece of property is not feasible or
incompatible with the town’s Parks and Recreation Master Plan.
      (3)   Fees collected in lieu of dedications and any proceeds from such
transactions or sales shall be held in a special fund by the town, and the
funds shall be used by the town for the purpose of acquiring or developing
recreation, parks, greenways or open space areas as shown in the Parks and
Recreation Master Plan or the Comprehensive Bicycle, Pedestrian and Greenway
Plan, and for no other purposes.
   (H)   Special committee to settle disagreements between town and subdivider.
      (1)   In the event that the town and the subdivider of land cannot agree
upon the location, terrain, size or shape of the land necessary to be dedicated
for a neighborhood recreation area, or cannot agree upon the details of
provisions for an equitable amount of land in another location or where there
is any disagreement between the town and the subdivider, including the amount
of the fee in lieu of land, such disagreement shall be determined by a special
committee.
      (2)   One member of the committee shall be a professional land appraiser
and shall be appointed by the Town Council. The second member shall be a
professional land appraiser and shall be appointed by the subdivider. These two
members shall appoint a third member. The committee shall view the land and
hear the contentions of both the town and the subdivider. The decision of the
committee shall be by majority vote and shall be certified to the Town Council
within 45 days of the time of appointment of the third member of the committee.
The decision of the committee shall be binding on both parties. The costs of
the professional land appraiser appointed by the subdivider shall be borne
entirely by the subdivider. All other costs shall be borne by the town.
Required Open Space for Subdivisions
                                       Required Percentage
Zoning District(s) Required Percentage of Open Space for   Maximum Percent in
                   of Open Space       Conservation        Inaccessible Land*
                                       Districts
Required Open Space for Subdivisions
                                       Required Percentage
Zoning District(s) Required Percentage of Open Space for   Maximum Percent in
                   of Open Space       Conservation        Inaccessible Land*
                                       Districts
C-B, G-B           N/A                 N/A                 N/A
M-1, M-2           N/A                 N/A                 75%
RA                 N/A                 30% - 50%           N/A
                   8% (0 - 2 units per
                   acre)**
R-20, R-10         10% (2.1 - 4 units  30% - 50%           25%
                   per acre)**
                   12% (greater than 4
                   units per acre)**
NOTES TO TABLE:
* “Inaccessible land” shall include:
   • any land where no zoning and/or building construction permits may be
issued (such as dedicated easements and rights-of-way (except those existing
to only protect underground utilities such as water or sewer lines),
wetlands, bodies of water, storm water detention or retention facilities and
the like as determined by the Administrator); or
   • land with a post-development slope greater than 3:1 which severely
limits its usefulness as open space.
** Based on the proposed density of the project subject to the maximum
density of the respective zoning district.
Floodway areas shall not be included in calculating areas to be considered
for open space.
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5E)
LOT DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.065 PURPOSE OF SITE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   This subchapter establishes standards to guide the design and review of
proposed developments involving the layout or development of lots and
relationship to streets and other public facilities.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6A)
§ 154.066 MINIMUM LOT STANDARDS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to any newly created or
proposed lot or parcel resulting from a subdivision of land as provided for
herein.
   (B)   Lots shall meet or exceed zoning district standards and shall be
designed for their potential uses, so that adequate buildable area is provided
and adequate room for required setbacks and buffer yards will exist on the lot.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6B)
§ 154.067 BLOCKS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to discourage long blocks lined with
homes and other buildings, which reduces street connectivity and diminishes the
efficiency of public and safety services, while increasing distances between
residences and non-residential destinations or public gathering places.
   (B)   The maximum and average perimeter of any blocks within a subdivision
shall not exceed that as shown in division (C) below. (A dash [-] indicates
that the requirement is not applicable.)
   (C)   Block lengths shall be measured from intersection to intersection and/
or intersection to end point.
 
Block Size Requirements
Zoning District      Maximum Perimeter (in feet)
R-A                  -
R-20, R-10, G-B, C-B 1,800
I-2                  -
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6C)
§ 154.068 CORNER LOTS.
   Side lot lines of lots abutting a public or private right-of-way shall, to
the extent practicable:
   (A)   Run at right angles to the right-of-way line; or
   (B)   In the case of cul-de-sacs or curvilinear street rights-of-way, radial
to the curve.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6D)
§ 154.069 LOT FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted herein, every lot resulting from a
subdivision of land as provided for herein shall abut and have direct access to
a publicly maintained street or other public right-of-way legally dedicated,
except as provided in this section.
   (B)   (1)   For proposed subdivisions with frontage on a thoroughfare
street, the maximum number of lots to be created shall be limited to five lots.
      (2)   Any proposed subdivision proposing more than five lots shall
require the additional lots to be served by a newly constructed internal public
street.
   (C)   Frontage on a public street shall not be required in the following
situations; provided, however, that, an easement providing access to the public
street shall be recorded and substituted with the application for development
approval:
      (1)   Parcels within non-residential subdivisions;
      (2)   Town home lots where the individual lots are separated from a
public right-of-way by a strip of land under common ownership by the owners of
the town home lots;
      (3)   Lots fronting on approved private streets; and
      (4)   Lots shall be designed with adequate frontage for the purpose of
providing direct physical access to the property from public streets for
vehicles and utilities and for public safety equipment.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6E)
§ 154.070 FLAG LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Flag lots may be developed on a limited basis in
subdivisions where individual development of each lot is contemplated and the
Administrator determines that no future street access through the property will
be needed.
         (b)   Flag lots may be used to better use irregularly shaped
properties or sites with physical limitations, or to eliminate or reduce access
to a thoroughfare or collector street.
         (c)   Flag lots shall not be permitted in any proposed subdivision,
except as provided for in this section.
      (2)   The maximum number of flag lots shall be set forth herein, where
the Administrator finds that the flag lot(s):
         (a)   Allow for the more efficient use of irregularly shaped parcels
of land; or
         (b)   Where the integrated nature of multiple buildings on a site
dictates the need for such lots.
   (B)   The minimum width of the “pole” portion of a flag lot shall be 15 feet
for residential lots and 30 feet for non-residential lots.
   (C)   The “pole” portion of the lot shall have maximum length not exceeding
250 feet.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6F)
§ 154.071 CUL-DE-SAC LOTS.
   A lot located on a cul-de-sac that does not maintain the minimum required
width along the public street frontage shall provide:
   (A)   Lot frontage of at least 50% of the minimum required, but in no case
less than 25 feet;
   (B)   Lot area equal to or greater than the minimum lot area (if one is
specified); and
   (C)   The minimum required lot width at the building line.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6G)
§ 154.072 PERIMETER BUFFER YARD FOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   A buffer yard shall be required along the perimeter of a residential
subdivision in order to separate residential lots from:
      (1)   Abutting thoroughfares; and
      (2)   Abutting non-residential uses.
   (B)   (1)   The buffer yard for abutting non-residential uses shall be
designed and landscaped per
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The buffer yard for abutting a thoroughfare shall be a type buffer
as set forth in
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   All required buffer yards shall be platted as common areas and may be
included as “open space”, subject to the standards and criteria as set forth in
§§
154.050 through
154.054 of this chapter.
 
Maximum Number of Flag Lots
Size of Subdivision Maximum Number or Percentage (%) of Flag Lots
2 - 20 lots         1 lot
Over 20 lots        1 per every 20 lots
NOTES TO TABLE:
- This table does not apply to the RA District. The RA District does not have
a limit on the number of flag lots.
- The Administrator may approve additional flag lots if evidence is presented
that physical hardships prevent development of land using conventional lot
design.
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6H)
§ 154.073 INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards for street design. Public and/or private streets shall be
designed in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Standards for utilities. Standards for the design and installation of
public utilities shall be in accordance with §§
154.085 through
154.089 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6I)
§ 154.074 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS.
   Any new major residential subdivision shall have lots designed so that no
lot includes any portion of a stream buffer or the no-build zone required by
this or any other local, state of federal regulations.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6K)
DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STREETS AND UTILITIES
§ 154.085 GENERAL.
   (A)   Compliance. Except as hereinafter provided, before any final plat of a
subdivision shall be eligible for final approval, and before any street or
utility shall be accepted for maintenance by the town, minimum improvements
shall have been completed and approved in accordance with town engineering
standards and specifications, or their completion shall have been guaranteed
with an irrevocable letter of credit in accordance herewith.
   (B)   Intent of specifications. The intent of the specifications set out in
this subchapter is to prescribe minimum requirements for storm drainage, water
supply, wastewater, sidewalks and street improvements to be undertaken by the
developer within the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction. Satisfactory
completion of these improvements, attested by approval of the town’s Public
Works Director or his or her designee will qualify streets in the town and
utilities in the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction to be accepted for
maintenance by the town.
   (C)   Statement by owner. The owner of land, or his or her authorized agent,
shown on a subdivision plat submitted for approval by the Town Council shall
sign a statement on the plat stating whether or not any land shown thereon is
within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the Town Council.
   (D)   Effect of plat approval on dedications. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-374,
the approval of a plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the
acceptance by the town or public of the dedication of any street or other
ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on the plat.
However, the Town Council may, by resolution, accept any dedication made to the
public of lands or facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines or other
public purposes, when the lands or facilities are located within its
subdivision regulation jurisdiction. Acceptance of dedication of lands or
facilities located within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction but outside
the corporate limits of the town shall not place on the town any duty to open,
operate, repair or maintain any street, utility line or other land or facility,
and the town shall in no event be held to answer in any civil action or
proceeding for failure to open, repair or maintain any street located outside
its corporate limits.
   (E)   Abrogation. It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate,
annul, impair or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed
restrictions, agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law. However, where this chapter imposed greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
   (F)   Inspections of utilities.
      (1)   The office of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee shall be notified 24 hours in advance of the work to be started so
that an authorized representative of the town’s Public Works Director or his or
her designee may be assigned to make any and all necessary inspections of the
work performed.
      (2)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee, or his or
her representative, shall be allowed access to all parts of the work, and shall
be furnished with every reasonable facility to ascertain whether or not the
work is performed in accordance with the specifications.
      (3)   No material shall be placed, nor any work performed, except in the
presence of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee, or his or
her authorized inspector, without special permission of the town’s Public Works
Director or his or her designee. Such inspections, however, shall not relieve
the contractor from any obligation to perform all of the work strictly in
accordance with the specifications.
      (4)   In case of any dispute arising as to the material furnished or the
manner of performing the work, the Inspector shall have authority to reject
materials or suspend work until the question at issue can be referred to and
decided by the town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee. The
contractor shall remove any work or material condemned as unsatisfactory by the
town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee and shall rebuild and
replace same to the standard required by the specifications, all at his or her
own expense.
      (5)   The office of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee will be responsible for all inspection.
      (6)   When conflicts occur between State Department of Transportation
standards and the town standards, the town standard will apply.
      (7)   All contracts for the performance of work to construct required
improvements must be approved by the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee.
   (G)   Improvements variance.
      (1)   The Town Council, with a recommendation from Public Works, may
grant a variance from the terms of these improvements regulations when such
variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, because of the
existence of unusual physical conditions, strict compliance with the provisions
of this chapter would cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship on the
subdivider. Such variance shall not be granted if it has the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. Furthermore, such
variance shall not be granted by the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee unless and until a written application for an improvements variance is
submitted to the office of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee on forms provided by that office demonstrating:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structures or required subdivision improvements involved and which
are not applicable to other lands, structures or required subdivision
improvements;
         (b)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of these regulations
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties with
similar conditions;
         (c)   The special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant; and
         (d)   The granting of the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by these regulations to other
lands, structures or required subdivision improvements under similar
conditions. No existing conditions on neighboring lands which are contrary to
these regulations shall be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (2)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee shall make
findings that the requirements of this section have been met.
      (3)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee shall
further make a finding that the reasons set forth in the application justify
the granting of the variance that would make possible the reasonable use of the
land, buildings or other improvements.
      (4)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee shall make
further finding that the granting of the variance would be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of these regulations, will not be injurious to the
surrounding territory or otherwise be detrimental to the public welfare.
      (5)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee shall make
all findings required by this section within seven days of the date of receipt
of the written application.
      (6)   An appeal from the finding of the town’s Public Works Director or
his or her designee may be taken to the Town Council by any person aggrieved.
An appeal is taken by filing with the Zoning Administrator a written notice
requesting a subdivision variance and specifying the grounds therefor, as set
forth herein.
      (7)   An appeal must be taken within seven days after the date of the
findings by the town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee.
      (8)   The Town Council may reverse or affirm (wholly or partly) or may
modify the findings appealed from and shall make any order, requirements,
decision or determination that, in its opinion, ought to be made in the case
before it.
(Ord. passed - -, App. C-1)
§ 154.086 WATER AND SEWERS.
   (A)   Design standards and specifications for water and/or sewer
improvements shall conform to the most current adopted version of the town’s
water and sewer policy. A copy of the policy is available at the office of the
Administrator or the office of the Public Works Director. The town may refer
any other providers policy as it applies to the project on a case by case
basis.
   (B)   Plans for a proposed utility extension must be prepared by registered
professional engineer and submitted to the town and appropriate state agencies
for their approval. The minimum distance for any extension of a water main or
sanitary sewer main shall be determined by the town. In general, the minimum
distance for an extension shall be across the entire frontage of the property
being developed, or as otherwise determined by the Public Works Director or
designee. Extensions will not be approved unless located within a town or
state-maintained road right-or-way or irrevocable easement obtained for such
extension. Such easements shall be signed, be in recordable form and shall be
submitted prior to plan approval. Notwithstanding, the Town Council may approve
a deviation in extreme hardship cases, which shall be supported by findings of
fact.
   (C)   When two-inch water lines are utilized (i.e., for all cul-de-sac
applications), the Rehau MUNICIPEX water service line, or equal, shall be
installed. This material shall meet AWWAC904, ASTMF876 PEXa with a 200 psi
working pressure. The manufacturer will co-extrude, blue-colored ultraviolet
(UV) shield on exterior and issue a one-year warranty for UV protection of the
water service line. The utility provider may allow a substitute on a case by
case basis.
   (D)   Private water and sewer utility systems shall meet all town or local
utility provider’s design and construction standards.
(Ord. passed - -, App. C-2)
§ 154.087 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fire hydrants.
      (1)   Applicants shall install fire hydrants in accordance with town or
the local utility provider’s specifications and requirements.
      (2)   The town or utility provider may contract with a developer to
install additional fire hydrants required, but in all cases, the full cost of
providing for such hydrants shall be borne by the developer.
      (3)   Any hydrant connected to the town’s or local provider’s water
system constructed pursuant this section, shall constitute dedication to the
town of such hydrant.
      (4)   All newly installed fire hydrants shall be five and one-fourth inch
barrel hydrants. All foot valves shall be five and one-fourth inch in diameter.
Only three-way hydrants shall be installed with pumper connections. Hydrants
shall meet AWWA C502, five and one-fourth inch barrel hydrants with the Storz
quick connection and cap, with two two and one-half inch hose outlets and one
five and one-fourth inch main valve opening. All hydrants shall be delivered
with a primer coat. After hydrant installation, the primer shall be touched up
and then painted yellow (two coats).
      (5)   (a)   All newly installed fire hydrants shall be spaced at 400-foot
intervals in residential zoning districts, except as provided herein. In
commercial, industrial and multi-family construction developments, hydrants
shall be spaced at 400-foot intervals. No application for development approval
shall be approved for any building unless a hydrant is installed within 400
feet of the most remote area of the building. Structures with sprinkler systems
shall provide fire hydrants within 200 feet of the Fire Department connection.
Mains shall be sized to provide 500 gpm exterior hose streams.
         (b)   Exceptions to hydrant spacing:
            1.   For Group R-3 and Group U occupancies, the distance
requirement shall be 600 feet (183 m); and
            2.   For buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with the distance requirement shall be
600 feet (183 m).
      (6)   All newly installed fire hydrants shall be tested by the town’s
Fire Department, or the fire department in whose jurisdiction it is located.
The water authority shall notify the town’s Fire Department, upon completion of
the system and its availability for testing. No construction shall be allowed
in the protected area until the water system has been tested and approved
unless otherwise allowed by the authority having jurisdiction. In phased
construction or development, the minimum loops sizes or applicable performance
specifications required by these regulations, must be completed before
construction of the structures can commence. The flows indicated as required
for one- and two-story single-family dwellings are based upon the minimum
distance allowed from structure to structure. A greater amount may be required
based upon the following spacing:
 
More than 30 feet 750 gpm @ 20 psi
30 - 13 feet      1,000 gpm @ 20 psi
12 - 0 feet       1,200 gpm @ 20 psi
 
   (B)   Fire protection facilities.
      (1)   Connections. Connections for fire protection systems shall be made
in compliance with the Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control
Ordinance. Fire protection water facilities installed upon the owner’s private
property are for the use of the owner, and any local utility including the
Water and Sewer Authority of the county assumes no responsibility for such
facilities. No water service, other than fire protection, will be taken from
water mains intended to provide fire protection only. Metering may be required
of systems that are run periodically for testing with the water going to waste.
Notification of testing shall be given a minimum of 48 hours prior to testing.
Violation of this notification may require the installation of approved
metering devices and appurtenances as specified. The local utility or Water and
Sewer Authority of the county reserves the right to make necessary inspections
to ensure compliance with these regulations. No pumps may be directly connected
to the local utility or Water and Sewer Authority of the county’s system.
      (2)   Cold water meters - fire service type size six-inch, eight-inch and
12-inch. All meters shall fully comply with the AWWA specification C-703-79.
Fire service meters shall consist of a combination of main line meter of the
proportional type, having an unobstructed waterway of essentially the full pipe
size for measuring high rates of flow, and a by-pass meter of appropriate size
for measuring low rates of flow. The meter shall have an automatic valve
mechanism for diverting low rates of flow through the by-pass meter. Meters
must be approved by the National Fire Protection Association and listed by the
Underwriters Laboratories. Loss in-head not to exceed for psi.
      (3)   Casing. Main casing shall be either of copper alloy containing not
less than 75% copper or of cast iron protected by a corrosion resistant coating
or other anti-corrosion treatment. Main-case connections shall be flanged.
Flanges shall be of the round type, faced and drilled, and shall conform to
ANSI B16.1, Class 125. Companion flanges are not required.
      (4)   Registers. Registers shall be straight reading type and shall read
in cubic feet. Registers will be provided with a center-sweep test hand.
Registers will be perma-sealed.
      (5)   Automatic valves. The automatic valve shall be of a type suitable
for the purpose. It shall close by force. The weight of the valve and any
supplemental force imposed on it shall offer sufficient resistance to the
incoming water to diver all small flows through the by-pass meter until such
time as the rate of flow through the meter is great enough to ensure efficient
operation of the main measuring section. Test plugs must be comparable to meter
size.
      (6)   Test outlet. A minimum two-inch outlet shall be provided on the
downstream side of the meter.
      (7)   Piping sizes.
         (a)   Brass piping: three-fourths inch and two inches; and
         (b)   Ductile iron (cement lined) piping: three inches to ten inches.
   (C)   Fire service requirements.
      (1)   Requirements in residential zoning districts.
         (a)   The minimum size of fire service water mains in residential
developments shall be six inches. All six-inch mains must be looped. Dead-end
mains shall be eight inches or greater. Exceptions: mains installed may meet
minimum performance specifications for the expected demand upon the system.
Mains shall be designed to provide the following flow rates at 20 psi:
residential: 1,000 gpm.
         (b)   Mains in residential subdivisions may be designed to provide 50%
of the required flow in gpm if the homes are provided with an approved
sprinkler system in compliance with NFiPA 13D. In any case, the flow shall not
be designed to provide less than 500 gpm at 20 psi. Single-family dwellings
shall be provided with supply lines which will support the sprinkler system.
Minimum service lines shall be one inch.
      (2)   Requirements in non-residential zoning districts.
         (a)   The minimum size of fire service water mains in commercial and
multi-family dwelling areas shall be eight inches. All eight-inch mains shall
be looped. Dead-end mains shall be 12 inches. The minimum size of fire service
water mains in industrial areas shall be 12 inches.
         (b)   All 12-inch mains shall be looped. Dead-end mains shall provide
the minimum fire flow as required in this section. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, mains installed may meet minimum performance specifications for the
expected demand upon the system in lieu of the minimum size requirement.
            1.   Individual large structures with life safety hazards or extra
hazardous operations shall, where required, be provided with on-site hydrants
and water mains designed to provide the required fire flow as determined by the
ISO formula and the State Fire Code.
            2.   A waiver of these standards may be allowed by the town during
approval of the preliminary plat only in extreme cases where limited frontage,
natural features (slope, topography) or similar circumstances preclude the
required connections and there is no substantial impact noted regarding
emergency service delivery.
            3.   The Fire Marshal is authorized to reduce the fire-flow
requirements for isolated buildings or a group of buildings in rural areas or
small communities where the development of full fire-flow is impractical.
         (c)   The Fire Marshal is authorized to increase the fire-flow
requirements where conditions indicate an unusual susceptibility to group fires
or conflagrations. An increase shall not be more than twice that required for
the building under consideration.
   (D)   Access.
      (1)   Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every
facility, building or portion of a building constructed or moved into or within
the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall extend to within 150
feet (45,720 mm) of all portions of the facility or all portions of the
exterior wall of the first story of the building as measured by an approved
route around the exterior of the building or facility.
      (2)   Exception: the code official is authorized to increase the
dimension of 150 feet (45,720 mm) where:
         (a)   The building is equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with § 903 of the North Carolina State
Building Code, Fire Prevention Code 2002.
         (b)   Fire apparatus access roads cannot be installed due to location
on property, topography, waterways, non-negotiable grades or other similar
conditions and an approved alternative means of fire protection is provided.
         (c)   There are not more than two Group R-3 or Group U occupancies.
            1.   Facilities, buildings or portions of buildings shall be
accessible to Fire Department apparatus by way of an approved fire apparatus
access road with an asphalt, concrete or other approved all weather driving
surface capable of supporting the imposed load of the fire apparatus.
            2.   Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width
of not less than 20 feet (6,096 mm), except for approved security gates in
accordance with § 503 of the North Carolina Building Code, Fire Prevention Code
2002, and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet six
inches (4,115 mm).
            3.   The code official shall have the authority to require an
increase in the minimum access widths where they are inadequate for fire or
rescue operations.
            4.   The required turning radius of a fire apparatus access road
shall be determined by the code official.
   (E)   International Fire Code. The latest version of the North Carolina
International Fire Code, and all appendices, are hereby adopted into this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. passed - -, App. C-3)
§ 154.088 PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Street classification.
Street Type Description ADT*
Street Type        Description                                            ADT*
                   An alley provides access to adjacent land, typically
Alley              to the rear of parcels. Alleys are typically used for  100
                   utilities, garbage service and garage access in
                   residential areas
                   A road that serves intra-county travel corridors and
Collector          traffic generators and provides access to the freeway/ 3,000
                   expressway system
                   Highway system serving travel, having characteristics
Freeway/expressway of substantial statewide or interstate travel and      8,000
                   exist solely to serve traffic
Major thoroughfare Streets that provide for expeditious movement of high  8,000
                   volumes of traffic within and through urban streets
                   Streets that perform the function of collecting
                   traffic from local access roads/streets and carrying
Minor thoroughfare it to the major thoroughfare; minor thoroughfares may  4,000
                   be used to supplement the major thoroughfare system by
                   facilitating minor through traffic movements and may
                   also serve abutting property
Residential lane   A local street serves to provide access to adjacent    250
                   land, over relatively short distances
                   A road that provides service to small local
Residential street communities and traffic generators and provides access 1,000
                   to the major collector system
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Refers to the minimum average daily traffic (ADT) typically experienced by a
given street classification.
Design Standards for the various Classes of Streets
Characteristic Thoroughfare Collector Local Alley
Design Standards for the various Classes of Streets
Characteristic   Thoroughfare      Collector     Local              Alley
                                   6% level      0.5% min. grade
                 See Comprehensive 9% rolling    12% max.
Maximum grade    Transportation    12% hilly     9% level           12% max.
                 Plan              5% within 100 12% rolling
                                   feet of an    5% within 100 feet
                                   intersection  of an intersection
Minimum          See Comprehensive               30 ft.; except
intersection     Transportation    30 ft.        that, a 15-ft.     35 ft.
corner radius    Plan                            radius may be used
                                                 with a 25-ft. toe
Minimum          See Comprehensive
horizontal       Transportation    230 ft.       150 ft.            90 ft.
centerline curve Plan
radius
Minimum tangent  See Comprehensive
between reverse  Transportation    200 ft.       100 ft.            0
curves           Plan
Typical design   See Comprehensive
speed            Transportation    25 - 35 mph   25 - 35 mph        15 mph
                 Plan
NOTES TO TABLE:
Sources: Comprehensive Transportation Plan; North Carolina Division of
Highways, Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards (Jan. 2010 or
most current version as amended)
 
   (B)   Construction standards and specifications for street, sidewalks and
storm drainage.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   Intent of these specifications is to prescribe minimum
requirements for streets, sidewalks and storm drainage within the governing
limits of the town. Detail drawings and standards cross-sections are
illustrated in division (G) below.
         (b)   Satisfactory completion of these improvements, attested by
approval of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee will
qualify streets in the town to be accepted for maintenance by the town.
Additional information is available in the design standards of the subdivision
regulations.
      (2)   Grading.
         (a)   All streets shall be graded to their full right-of-way width or
to a minimum of 50 feet. Finished grade, cross-section and profile of the
roadway shall be designed by a professional engineer or registered land
surveyor and approved by the town Public Works Director or his or her designee.
         (b)   Longitudinal grades shall have a minimum grade of 0.5% and a
maximum grade of 12%.
         (c)   Transverse grade or crown shall be one-fourth inch to one foot
slope. The maximum slope for cuts shall be two to one and for fill embankments,
two to one. Fill embankments shall be formed of suitable materials placed in
successive layers of not more than six inches in depth for the full width of
the cross section, including width of slope area. No stumps, trees, brush,
rubbish or other unsuitable materials or substances shall be placed in the
embankments within any right-of-way or easement. Each successive six-inch layer
shall be thoroughly compacted by a sheep foot roller, ten-ton three-wheel power
roller, pneumatic-tired roller or other method approved by the town’s Public
Works Director or his or her designee. Embankments over and around all pipes
and culverts shall be of select material, placed and thoroughly tamped and
compacted as directed by the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee or his or her representative. Any soft spots or rolling areas must be
removed and replaced in the manner stated above until satisfactory compaction
is achieved.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac streets.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs in the town are not strictly prohibited but strongly
discouraged due to the historic nature of the town. Connectivity through
curvilinear streets and their related connections are encouraged.
         (b)   Cul-de-sacs shall be subject to the same design guidelines as
local roads above, except as modified herein.
         (c)   In no event shall more than 20 equivalent residential units
(ERUs) take access from a cul-de-sac. ERUs are determined by standard practice.
         (d)   The preliminary and final site plan shall show a stub connecting
the cul-de-sac to adjoining areas or parcels where future roadways are
delineated in the Thoroughfare Plan or Collector Street Plan, or on a recorded
subdivision or site plan (provided reasonable connection can be achieved
without the need for a bridge or other feature to negate substantial
differences in topography). The stub shall be improved as a pedestrian walkway,
trail or bikeway.
         (e)   The radius for the circular terminus, or turnaround, shall be
not less than 40 feet. An island may be planted in the center of the turnaround
in accordance with the standards as set forth in the division (G) below. The
island shall maintain a minimum of ten-foot radius.
         (f)   In no event shall the cul-de-sac exceed the lengths set forth
below:
 
District   Length
RA         1,000 ft.
R-20, R-10 800 ft.
G-B, C-B   500 ft.
M-1, M-2   1,500 ft.
 
         (g)   Cul-de-sac length shall be measured from the first point of
intersection with an existing street or the street providing access for the
cul-de-sac.
      (4)   Sight triangles.
         (a)   A sight triangle shall be maintained on each corner of property
at the intersection of two streets, a street and an alley, a street and a
railroad, and also at the point where driveways, private drives or entrances to
common parking areas intersect with a public or private street right-of-way.
The sight triangle is a triangular area connecting the following points: the
intersection of the right-of-way lines and the end points of the sight distance
for the intersecting streets as set forth in the state’s Department of
Transportation, Subdivision Roads - Minimum Construction Standards (January
2010).
         (b)   In the event that a proposed new street connection is located on
a site near an adjoining property not under the ownership of the developer, the
town shall have the authority to acquire right-of-way (as set forth in G.S. Ch.
40-A) on the adjoining property for such area as necessary to establish a sight
triangle.
         (c)   A ten-foot site triangle shall be maintained where a private
driveway intersects a public street.
         (d)   The following are the distances used to establish a sight
triangle as measured from an intersecting right-of-way:
 
Right-of-Way Width   Distance (feet)
10 - 50 ft.          25 ft.
60 ft.               30 ft.
70 ft.               35 ft.
80 ft.               40 ft.
90 ft.               45 ft.
100 ft. (or greater) 50 ft.
 
   Typical Sight Triangle
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-758.jpg]
 
         (e)   A sight triangle shall contain no fence, structure, earth bank,
hedge, planting, wall or other obstruction between a height greater than two
feet above the property line grade as established by the town Public Works
Director or his or her designee. The following are exempted from this
provision:
            1.   Public utility poles;
            2.   Trees trimmed (to the trunk) to a height at least nine feet
above the level of the intersection;
            3.   Other plant species of open growth habit that are not planted
in the form of a hedge and which are so planted and trimmed as to leave in all
seasons a clear and unobstructed cross-view;
            4.   A supporting member or appurtenance to a permanent building
lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter;
            5.   Official warning signs or signals; and
            6.   Signs which conform to the Sign Ordinance mounted ten feet or
more above the ground with supports that do not encroach on the clear-vision
area.
         (f)   The Administrator (or his or her designee) may waive this
provision where the natural contour of the ground is such that there can be no
cross-visibility at the intersection.
         (g)   The requirements for sight triangles shall not apply in the CB
District.
      (5)   Roadway and curb and gutter design. All new streets and streets
providing access to a new subdivision shall have concrete curbs and gutters
constructed to town standards. Concrete drive entrances shall be built as shown
in this subchapter. Topography and drainage will be the main factors in
addition to the existing curb type required in the decision on whether curb and
gutter or valley gutter will be used. The requirement that curb and gutter be
constructed on access streets may be waived by the Town Public Works Director
when the construction of curb and gutter would not be feasible or warranted.
      (6)   Curve radius. Property lines at the intersection of minor streets
shall be rounded with a minimum radius and a maximum radius as follows:
 
Underlying Zoning District Minimum Radius Maximum Radius
G-B, C-B, M-1, M-2         30 feet        n/a
R-10, R-20                 30 feet        45 feet
RA                         30 feet        n/a
 
      (7)   Roadway base.
         (a)   The material for base course shall be crusher-run stone with
aggregate ranging from one and one-half inches to dust. The material shall
consist of tough durable aggregate, containing sufficient fines to ensure a
well and uniformly bonded base after compaction. The aggregate shall be free
from an excess of flat, elongated, soft disintegrated pieces and shall not
contain clay, silt, vegetable or other objectionable matter. The base shall not
be less than that required by town standards. The mixing and shaping of the
base course material shall be done with a power driven motor grader, equipped
with a blade not less than ten feet long, and of a size equal to a 212
Caterpillar. (See standard drawing(s).)
         (b)   The base shall be compacted by rolling with ring or temping
roller and with pneumatic tired roller. When completed, the base course shall
be smooth, hard, dense, unyielding and well bonded.
         (c)   Materials shall conform to the requirements of the State Highway
Specifications, § 401. Construction methods shall conform to § 51. (See
standard drawing(s).)
      (8)   Roadway surface. Plant mix asphalt shall conform in all respects to
State Highway Specifications, § 140.
      (9)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be provided for the safe movement of
pedestrians, separate from the movement of vehicular traffic, through
residential areas, as well as to commercial, industrial and public places.
Sidewalks shall be constructed along both sides of all new streets in a
subdivision and along any street that provides access to the subdivision.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall:
            1.   Have a minimum of five feet in width;
            2.   Be constructed of not less than 3,000 psi concrete;
            3.   Be a minimum four inches thick, except that where a sidewalk
crosses a driveway, it shall be six inches thick;
            4.   Shall be constructed on an adequately compacted and properly
graded base;
            5.   Shall have a lateral slope of one-quarter inch per foot toward
the street;
            6.   Shall be steel trowelled and light broom finished and cured
properly. Tooled joints shall be provided at intervals of not more than five
feet and expansion joints at intervals of not more than 40 feet;
            7.   Shall be constructed along all frontage roads providing access
to the development for the full frontage of the development; and
            8.   Shall be extended across any water ways, streams, creeks,
rivers or other water bodies, at the expense of the developer, to continue
pedestrian connectivity along the frontage of the development. Connectivity may
be provided across existing bridges or structures with the permission of the
State Department of Transportation, or via a separate pedestrian bridge to be
provided by the developer.
      (10)   Drainage system requirements.
         (a)   A drainage system shall be provided for by means of culverts
under roadways and other drainage structures or outlet ditches that are
necessary to provide adequate drainage of storm water for all streets in the
subdivisions and for adjoining property where necessary. All such drainage
systems shall be designed in accordance with sizes and specifications
established in this subchapter for municipal streets and the State Department
of Transportation for state-maintained roads. Storm drainage systems shall be
designed by a professional engineer according to specifications of the Public
Utilities Department of the town and approved by the town’s Public Works
Director or his or her designee. Installation of same shall be in accordance
with town specifications and standards.
         (b)   Adequate storm drainage shall be provided throughout by means of
pipes or graded channels; storm drain pipe shall be placed at all low points in
the street grade to transmit storm water transversely across the street with
catch basins being constructed on both sides of the street at the low points.
In no case, shall storm water be transmitted more than 500 feet in the gutter
line. No open ditches will be permitted within the limits of the street rights-
of-way, except for pre-existing stream channels which may be approved by the
town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee.
         (c)   The minimum size pipe shall be 15 inches, regardless of drainage
area. The minimum cover for all pipe shall be two feet. Subdrainage shall be
provided where ground water table is within two feet of the subgrade. Six-inch
corrugated black plastic pipe or corrugated metal pipe with open joints or
perforations laid on six inches of clean sand or washed stone, covered with six
inches of clean sand or washed stone shall be used to lower water table.
Ditches shall be minimum of 36 inches deep and two feet in width.
         (d)   All surface drainage pipe shall be concrete conforming to State
Highway Commission Standard Specification of Road and Structures. For special
conditions, pipe recommended by the manufacturer for the type installation
involved, and approved by town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee
will be considered. Any concrete pipe laid between the concrete curbs shall be
reinforced. All pipe shall be laid with the bell or groove upgrade and joint
entirely interlocking.
         (f)   Catch basins shall be built as shown on the standard drawings.
Improvised grates will not be acceptable. Catch basins walls shall be built
straight with inside joints struck smooth. Precast catch basins may be
acceptable with the approval of the town’s Public Works Director or his or her
designee.
      (11)   Sign installation.
         (a)   Standard street signs installed by the town. In all subdivisions
which include public streets, except as provided for in town for full costs of
installation. Initial installation shall be the responsibility of the
developer. The developer shall be responsible for maintenance and replacement
of the street signs while construction is ongoing, until such time when the
town accepts the street improvements. Once the town or NCDOT has accepted the
roads, the maintenance and replacement of signs shall be the responsibility of
the town.
         (b)   Custom street signs installed by the developer. In all
subdivisions with architectural standards, restrictive covenants and a property
owner’s association, custom street signs may be installed by the developer with
all costs of installation, maintenance and replacement paid by the developer
and/or homeowner’s association and as set forth below.
         (c)   Such street signs shall comply with the Manual on Uniform
Traffic-Control Devices, published by the state’s Department of Transportation,
and may be installed only after written approval by the Town Public Works
Director or his or her designee. Submission requirements for consideration of
custom street signs shall include detailed color drawings, plans and
specifications of the proposed street signs and a written statement describing
funding for installation, maintenance and replacement.
         (d)   Replacement of lost or damaged regulatory or warning signs, as
defined by the Uniform Manual, shall be accomplished immediately by the town
using standard street signs until the developer or property owner’s association
installs replacement custom street signs. If the developer or property owner’s
association fails to install replacement custom street signs for regulatory and
warning signs within 90 days, the replacement by the town shall be considered
permanent and full costs shall be paid by the developer or property owner’s
association. Replacement of lost or damaged guide signs, as defined by the
Uniform Manual, shall be accomplished by the developer or property owner’s
association within 90 days or the town shall install standard street signs with
full costs paid by the developer or property owner’s association.
      (12)   Street intersections.
         (a)   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at an angle of 90
degrees for a minimum of 50 feet from the roadway intersection. In no case
shall the angle be less than 65 degrees. Intersections having more than four
corners shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Proposed streets which intersect opposite sides of another
street (either existing or proposed) shall be laid out to intersect directly
opposite each other. Intersections which cannot be aligned shall be separated
by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
         (c)   Property lines at intersections shall be established so that the
distance from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property line
will be at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to the
property line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be
established as a radius or as a sight triangle.
      (13)   Median and islands.
         (a)   Where median widths are specified, a median of not less than the
designated width shall be provided and shall be landscaped at a density
equivalent to a Class “A” buffer as set forth in the landscaping standards of
this chapter.
         (b)   Entrance roads shall include a median in conformance with these
requirements.
         (c)   Islands and medians shall be a minimum of 75 square feet in
size.
         (d)   Structures, permanent materials or plantings within the island
shall not obscure the visibility of cars entering a cross street for a distance
of 20 feet back from the curb face of the cross-street, unless a larger setback
is needed due to inadequate sight distance created by horizontal or vertical
curve alignment.
         (e)   Required medians may be waived upon determination of the Public
Works Director.
         (f)   Underdrain is required for drainage with median installation.
      (14)   Unopened dedicated streets.
         (a)   Streets for which right-of-way has been dedicated by subdivision
plat or deed to the state’s Department of Transportation or the town recorded
with the county’s Register of Deeds, but which have never been constructed,
shall not be constructed or maintained by the town until the following
conditions have been met.
            1.   Right-of-way shall be dedicated, and surveyed if necessary,
sufficiently wide for the street and utilities, as determined by the town’s
Public Works Director or his or her designee.
            2.   Right-of-way shall be cleared and graded to meet town
standards for slope and drainage.
            3.   Roadway shall be improved with a surface of crusher-run stone
to a depth of not less than six inches, two inches of HB binder, and one and
one-half inches of I-2 asphalt. Width of roadway shall be not less than 18
feet.
         (b)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee or his
or her authorized representative shall inspect all work.
         (c)   The town’s Public Works Director or his or her designee or his
or her authorized representative shall issue a certificate of completion for
the required improvements.
      (15)   Street names.
         (a)   Proposed street names shall not duplicate nor too closely
approximate phonetically the name of any street within the town and county.
         (b)   Where proposed streets are extensions of existing streets, the
existing street names shall be used, except where a new name can reasonably be
used to facilitate proper house numbering or to avoid further street name
duplication.
         (c)   A street name review form is to be submitted to the county’s
Planning Department for review prior to or not later than the preliminary plat
submittal.
         (d)   Cul-de-sacs or streets terminating in a similar dead-end shall
be designated as courts if oriented east-west or places if oriented north-
south.
      (16)   Greenway and bicycle facilities design. When a greenway or bicycle
facility is part of a development, all greenways and bicycle facilities should
be constructed in accordance with the design and construction standards in the
adopted Bicycle, Pedestrian and Greenway Plan, and shall be maintained for
public access whether by easement or by public dedication.
   (C)   Certification to as builts and construction management.
      (1)   The town shall require a third party construction management to
observe all construction daily for all improvements installed for consideration
for the town acceptance.
      (2)   The developer shall bear the total cost of the construction
management and the person or company hired shall be acceptable to the town in
advance.
      (3)   Daily, weekly and monthly logs shall document the daily work,
deficiencies, corrections and changes from the approved construction plans.
      (4)   The log shall be property of the town.
      (5)   The engineer for the project shall confer with the construction
management and concur any discrepancies in the final as-builts for the project.
      (6)   Any changes shall be approved in advance by the Public Works
Director or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed - -, App. C-4)
§ 154.089 STANDARD DETAILS AND CROSS-SECTIONS; DRAWINGS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-762.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-764.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-766.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-768.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-770.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-774.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-772.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-776.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-778.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-780.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-782.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-784.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-786.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-788.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-790.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-792.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-794.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-796.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/679285ee247440afe1c902069381017409a7a7d1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-798.jpg]
 
(Ord. passed - -, App. C-7)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Authority and purpose
   
155.003   Jurisdiction
   
155.004   Relation to other ordinances
   
155.005   Separability
   
155.006   Effective date
   
155.007   Definitions; interpretation of terms, words and zoning district
boundaries
Zoning Districts
   
155.020   Introduction
   
155.021   Zoning districts established
   
155.022   Table of uses
   
155.023   Supplemental use regulations
   
155.024   Yard, bulk, height and screening standards
Non-Conformities
   
155.035   Purpose and applicability
   
155.036   Non-conforming uses
   
155.037   Non-conforming principal structures
   
155.038   Non-conforming accessory structures and uses
   
155.039   Non-conforming lots
   
155.040   Non-conforming screening and landscaping
   
155.041   Non-conforming off-street parking and loading
   
155.042   Non-conforming signs
   
155.043   Non-conforming junk yards
Supplemental Provisions
   
155.055   Application
   
155.056   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
155.057   Relationship of building to lot
   
155.058   Fences or walls permitted
   
155.059   Lot to abut a dedicated street
   
155.060   One principal building
   
155.061   Temporary structures and uses
   
155.062   Telecommunication towers and facilities
   
155.063   Accessory structures and uses
   
155.064   Manufactured homes and similar structures
   
155.065   Height limitations and exceptions
   
155.066   Construction begun prior to adoption of chapter
   
155.067   Uses not expressly permitted or conditional
   
155.068   Yards and setbacks on irregular lots, corner lots and through lots
   
155.069   Vibration
   
155.070   Noise
   
155.071   Odor
   
155.072   Parking of commercial and recreational vehicles
   
155.073   Recreational vehicles
   
155.074   Yard and garage sales
   
155.075   Manufactured homes
   
155.076   Adult establishments, video stores and hotels/motels
   
155.077   Zero lot line (side yards) developments; zero side setbacks
   
155.078   Front yard setbacks for dwellings
   
155.079   Outdoor lighting and reflectivity
   
155.080   Planned residential development
   
155.081   Awnings and canopies
Screening and Landscaping
   
155.095   Intent
   
155.096   Between certain districts and structures and businesses
   
155.097   Industrial property located across from residential property
   
155.098   Open storage and unenclosed structures
   
155.099   All zoning districts
   
155.100   Screen and buffer strip standards
   
155.101   Plant standards and plant installation standards
   
155.102   Walls, fences and berms
   
155.103   Relief to requirements
   
155.104   Maintenance
   
155.105   Visibility at intersections
   
155.106   Implementation prior to occupancy
   
155.107   Existing screened areas
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.120   Compliance; certificate of occupancy
   
155.121   Location of required parking
   
155.122   Cooperative parking
   
155.123   Parking space dimensions
   
155.124   Required widths of parking area aisles and driveways
   
155.125   Space for the disabled
   
155.126   General design requirements
   
155.127   Off-street parking area surfaces
   
155.128   Off-street parking lot usage
   
155.129   Off-street parking space requirements
   
155.130   Landscaping within off-street parking areas
   
155.131   Off-street loading requirements
Signs
   
155.145   General intent
   
155.146   Sign illumination
   
155.147   Unsafe signs
   
155.148   Sign area
   
155.149   Sign height
   
155.150   Permit required
   
155.151   Signs not requiring permit
   
155.152   Prohibited signs
   
155.153   Signs permitted in residential districts (R-A, R-20, R-10)
   
155.154   Signs permitted in the Central Business District (C-B)
   
155.155   Signs permitted in all G-B, M-1 and M-2 Districts
   
155.156   Specifications for signs requiring a permit
Conditional Uses
   
155.170   General
   
155.171   Procedures
   
155.172   Planning Board review and recommendation
   
155.173   Public hearing
   
155.174   Town Council action
   
155.175   Additional review criteria
   
155.176   Effect of approval
   
155.177   Binding effect
   
155.178   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.179   12-month limitation on reapplication
   
155.180   Change in conditional use permit
   
155.181   Implementation of conditional use permit (CUP)
Amendments
   
155.195   Purpose
   
155.196   Authority
   
155.197   Initiation
   
155.198   Filing of petitions; determination of completeness
   
155.199   Content of application
   
155.200   Planning Board review and recommendations
   
155.201   Submittal and review periods
   
155.202   Town Council action
   
155.203   Notification of decision
   
155.204   Re-submission of petition
Administration
   
155.215   Zoning Administrator
   
155.216   Zoning permit
   
155.217   Certificate of occupancy
   
155.218   Right of appeal
   
155.219   Remedies
   
155.220   Complaints regarding violations
   
155.221   Early vesting of development rights upon approval of site plan
Board of Adjustment
   
155.235   Authority
   
155.236   Membership
   
155.237   Meetings, hearings and procedures
   
155.238   Staff
   
155.239   Initiation of appeals and variances
   
155.240   Administrative review, appeals and interpretation
   
155.241   Variances
   
155.242   Non-conformities
   
155.243   Temporary use permits and special exceptions
   
155.244   Application procedure
   
155.245   Public notification
   
155.246   Decision or recommendation
   
155.247   Appeals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Badin, North Carolina” and shall be known as the “Badin Zoning Ordinance” and
the zoning map, which is identified by the title, “Official Zoning Map, Badin,
North Carolina”, shall be known as the “zoning map” or “official zoning map”.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be maintained in the town and may
consist of a series of maps. The official zoning map, or copies, shall be
available to the public for viewing. Copies of the map and this chapter shall
also be made available for sale to the public.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.1)
§ 155.002 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   In pursuance of authority granted by the general assembly of the
state, in G.S. §§ 160A-381 to 160A-392, and for the purpose of promoting the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
town, this chapter contains regulations designed to:
      (1)   Address future needs, growth and change in the jurisdiction;
      (2)   Conserve land and water resources;
      (3)   Secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers;
      (4)   Provide adequate light and air;
      (5)   Provide adequate transportation, water supplies, sewer service,
schools, parks, open space and public facilities;
      (6)   Conserve the value of buildings;
      (7)   Examine the most appropriate use of the land;
      (8)   Regulate the location of business and industry;
      (9)   Regulate the height and bulk of buildings;
      (10)   Regulate the area of yards and open spaces for buildings;
      (11)   Protect historic sites and areas;
      (12)   Promote orderly development of the community;
      (13)   Lessen congestion in the roads and streets;
      (14)   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
      (15)   Avoid undue concentration of population;
      (16)   Preserve the natural environment; and
      (17)   Ensure the development of a future environment that realizes the
greatest possible use and enjoyment of individual properties.
   (B)   The zoning districts and maps have been made with due consideration of
future growth, development and change in land development according to
objectives expressed in the comprehensive plan, as well as with due
consideration of existing development and uses of land in the town.
   (C)   These regulations and districts represent consideration of the
character of the particular suitability for particular uses of land and have
been made with a view to preserve the existing environment and/or assure the
development of a future environment that realizes the greatest use and
enjoyment of the land on individual properties. This is balanced against the
necessary protection of values of buildings and land and the use and enjoyment
of land on adjacent properties and with the objective of promoting and
protecting the public welfare through the regulation of land use and the
process of land development.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.2)
§ 155.003 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of
the town and within the extraterritorial area, as defined by ordinance and as
now or hereafter fixed, and any property thereto annexed in the future.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.3)
§ 155.004 RELATION TO OTHER ORDINANCES.
   (A)   It is not intended that this chapter shall in any way repeal, annul or
interfere with the existing provisions of any other law or ordinance, except
any ordinance which these regulations specifically replaces.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations shall interfere with any
easements, covenants or other agreements between parties.
   (C)   However, if the provisions of these regulations impose greater
restrictions or higher standards for the use of a building or land, for yards,
or for the size of structures than is called for by other ordinances, permits,
easements or agreements, then the provisions of these regulations shall
control.
   (D)   In the event of any conflict in limitations, restrictions or standards
applying to a project or developments, the more restricted provision shall
apply.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.4)
§ 155.005 SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   If any section or specific provision or standard of this chapter or
any zoning district boundary that may exist in the future is found by a court
to be invalid for any reason, the decision of the court shall not affect the
validity of any other section, provision, standard or district boundary of
these regulations except the provision in question.
   (B)   The other portions of these regulations not affected by the decision
of the court shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.5)
§ 155.006 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These regulations became effective on 11-10-1999.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1.6)
§ 155.007 DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION OF TERMS, WORDS AND ZONING DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Interpretation of terms and words.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words
used in the plural number include the singular.
      (3)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, trust and company as well as an individual.
      (4)   The word “lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel”.
      (5)   The word “building” includes the word “structure”.
      (6)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      (7)   The words “used” or “occupied” as applied to any land or building
shall be construed to include the words “intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied”.
      (8)   The word “map”, “zoning map” or “Badin Zoning Map” shall mean the
“Official Zoning Map of the Town of Badin, North Carolina”.
      (9)   Any word denoting gender includes the female and the male.
      (10)   The term “Town Council” shall mean the “Town Council of Badin,
North Carolina”.
      (11)   The term “Planning Board” shall mean the “Planning Board of Badin,
North Carolina”.
      (12)   The term “Board of Adjustment” shall mean the “Board of Adjustment
of Badin, North Carolina”.
      (13)   The term “Badin Land Development Plan” shall mean the Badin Land
Development Plan adopted by the Badin Town Council on                     ,
1999.
      (14)   The term “Zoning Administrator” shall mean the “Zoning
Administrator of Badin, North Carolina”.
   (B)   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries.
      (1)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any district shown
on the official zoning map, the Zoning Administrator shall employ the following
rules of interpretation.
         CENTERLINE. Where a boundary line lies within and follows a street or
alley right-of-way, a railroad right-of-way or utility easement, the boundary
shall be construed to be in the center of such street or alley right-of-right,
railroad right-of-way or utility easement forming the boundary between two
separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication, the district
boundaries shall be construed as following the CENTERLINE of the abandoned or
vacated road bed or utility easement.
         EDGE LINE. Where a boundary line follows the edge of a street or alley
right-of-way, a railroad right-of-way or utility easement, the boundary shall
be construed to be on the edge of such street or alley right-of-way, railroad
right-of-way or utility easement. If such a street or alley right-of-way,
railroad right-of-way or utility easement forming the boundary between two
separate zoning districts is abandoned or removed from dedication, the district
boundaries shall be construed as following the EDGE of the abandoned or vacated
road bed or utility easement.
         EXTENSIONS. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of
street or alley rights-of-way, utility easements, lot lines, city limits,
county lines or extraterritorial boundaries shall be so construed.
         LOT LINE. Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines. In the event that a district
boundary line divides a lot or tract, each part of the lot or tract so divided
shall be used in conformity with the regulations established by this chapter
for the district in which said part is located.
         SCALING. In a case where a district boundary does not coincide with
any boundary lines as above and no distances are described by specific
ordinance, the boundary shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing
on the map.
         TOWN LIMITS. Boundaries indicated as approximately following town
limits or extraterritorial boundary lines shall be construed as following the
town limits or extraterritorial boundary lines.
         WATERCOURSES. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be
construed to follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Where the Zoning Administrator determines that physical features
existing on the ground, or actual property lines or other human-made boundary
lines used to depict zoning district boundaries, are at variance with those
shown on the official zoning map, the Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to interpret zoning district boundaries in accordance with §§
155.235 through
155.247 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2.1)
   (C)   Definitions of terms used in this chapter. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED. The intentional or unintentional cessation of use, or
maintenance of a building, structure or lot.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling that exists as part of a principal
dwelling or on the same lot as the principal dwelling and is subordinate to the
principal dwelling.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure that exists on the same
lot with the principal use or structure and is customarily subordinate to or
incidental to the principal use.
      ACTIVE RECREATION. Leisure activities usually of an organized nature,
often performed with others and often requiring equipment, taking place at
prescribed places, sites or fields.
      ADJACENT. Property abutting directly on the boundary of, touching or
sharing a common point.
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure or use of land which meets the
definition of “adult establishment”, as outlined in G.S. § 14-202.10, and
including adult video stores and adult hotels and motels.
      ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL.
         (a)   A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
            1.   Provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions that depict or describe “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” as one of its principal business purposes;
            2.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than ten hours; or
            3.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent a
sleeping room for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
         (b)   A business as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10(2). This definition
includes adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion
picture theaters, adult live entertainment businesses or massage businesses.
These uses are further defined in G.S. § 14-202.10 and the definitions are
adopted by reference. However, those massage businesses where all employees
associated with massage meet the ethical and educational requirements specified
by the American Massage Therapy Association, or equivalent national or state
standards, are exempt from this definition.
      ADULT VIDEO STORE. Any store which receives a majority of its gross
income during any calendar month from the sale or rental of films, motion
pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions, slides, computer media or
other visual representations that depict or describe “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined in G.S. § 14-202.10.
      AGENCY. A sales or service establishment dealing in services or
intangible commodities, or commodities not on site, such as a broker’s office,
travel agency, temporary employee agency and the like.
      AGRICULTURAL USES.
         (a)   The commercial production, keeping or maintenance, of plants and
animals useful to humans, including, but not limited to: forages and sod crops;
grains and seed crops; dairy animals and dairy products, poultry and poultry
products; livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules
or goats or any mutuations or hybrids thereof, including the breeding and
grazing of any or all of such animals; bees and apiary products; fur animals;
trees and forest products; fruits of all kinds, including nuts; vegetables;
nursery, floral and ornamental products; or lands devoted to a soil
conservation or forestry management program.. Also land used as pasture or in
the commercial production of fish hatcheries or aquaculture.
         (b)   Also for the purposes of this chapter, the keeping of livestock
for commercial or non-commercial purposes is defined as an AGRICULTURAL USE.
Livestock includes, but is not limited to, poultry and hoofed animals such as
cattle, horses, swine, goats and sheep. Also included in this definition of
AGRICULTURAL USES are agricultural accessory buildings, and sales of
agricultural products grown or raised on the premises. Not included in this
definition are the commercial slaughtering of animals for marketing and farm
tenant dwellings. Other uses which shall not be deemed as AGRICULTURAL USES
include:
            1.   Zoos;
            2.   Kennels; and
            3.   Riding stables and academies.
      AIRPORT. A place where aircraft may takeoff and land, be repaired, take
on or discharge passengers or cargo, be stored or refueled. Includes customary
accessory uses.
      ALTERATION. A change in the size, configuration or location of a
structure; or a change in the use of a structure or lot from a previously
approved or legally existing size, configuration, location or use.
      AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A commercial facility providing recreational activities
that typically include coin-operated amusement machines such as pinball
machines, electronic video games and skeetball machines. A facility shall be
deemed an AMUSEMENT ARCADE if it has eight or more of such machines.
      AMUSEMENT/FUN PARK. A permanent, outdoor, pedestrian-oriented facility
containing a cluster of structures and facilities which house devices for
entertainment, including, but not limited to, rides, booths for the conduct of
games, food and souvenir stands, buildings for shows and entertainment
(movies), video games, go-carts, remote control cars track and miniature golf.
      ANIMAL GROOMING FACILITY. An indoor facility where household pets,
primarily dogs and cats are bathed, clipped and styled. No overnight care is
given and no outside runs or kennels are permitted.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL (INDOOR). A place where animals are given medical or
surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is incidental to the hospital
use. All facilities associated with an ANIMAL HOSPITAL shall be located
indoors.
      ANIMAL KENNEL. A commercial enterprise where more than six dogs or other
domesticated animals are groomed, bred, boarded, trained or sold.
      ANIMAL SHELTER. A public, non-profit or not-for-profit facility at which
dogs, cats and other domesticated animals are kept (primarily outdoors) for
purposes of distribution to the general public.
      ANIMAL SUPPLY STORE. A retail establishment whose business is limited to
the sale of supplies (e.g., feeds and pharmaceutical) and equipment (e.g.,
bridles, barbed wire) related to the keeping of horses and farm animals.
      ANTENNA. A device used to receive or transmit electromagnetic waves,
including, but not limited to, directional antennas, such as panels, microwave
dishes and satellite dishes, and omnidirectional antennas, such as whip
antennas.
      APPLICANT. A person seeking an action or approval under provisions of
this chapter.
      ART GALLERY. A commercial establishment where individual pieces of art
are sold to the general public on a retail basis.
      AUCTION HOUSE. A facility which is used for the purpose of having
auctions on a regularly established basis.
      AUTOMOBILE BODY SHOP. Any building, premises and land in which or upon
which a business is conducted that primarily involves the painting of vehicles
or external repairing of damaged vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE BROKER. A business dealing with the trading of automobiles
without the use of a sales lot.
      AUTOMOBILE DETAILING SHOP. An establishment primarily engaged in the
hand-cleaning and waxing of automobiles. Such activities may take place both
indoors and outdoors. Such facilities are distinguished from “auto washes” in
that there is typically no automated equipment involved with the cleaning and
waxing of vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE PARTS SUPPLY STORE. An establishment which sells new and/or
rebuilt automobile parts and accessories, but does not include junk yards, used
auto parts sales or the installation of such parts.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP. Any building, premises and land in which or upon
which the primary use of land is a business which involves the maintenance or
servicing of vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. See JUNK YARD AND AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A use where vehicular fuels are sold at the
retail level and where the installation of such automotive items as lubricants,
tires, batteries and similar accessories takes place and where minor automobile
repair and maintenance work is conducted.
      AUTOMOBILE TOWING AND WRECKING SERVICE. An establishment primarily
engaged in the towing of motor vehicles and vehicular storage associated with
vehicle accidents and violations. This shall not include vehicular salvaging
operations nor the sale of salvaged vehicular parts. This use is not to be
construed as a junk yard, nor an automobile salvage yard.
      AUTOMOBILE WASH, CLASS 1 (SELF-SERVICE CAR WASH). A commercial
establishment primarily engaged in the washing of automobiles, motorcycles and
pick-up and panel trucks. Such washing shall be done manually by the customer
or by fully automated machines (i.e., the use of chain conveyors or other
devices which move the vehicle through a washing device shall not be
permitted). Accessory self-vacuuming facilities shall be allowed.
      AUTOMOBILE WASH, CLASS 2 (AUTOMATIC CAR WASH). A commercial establishment
primarily engaged in the washing of automobiles, motorcycles and pick-up and
panel trucks using a combination of personnel and automated systems to wash the
vehicle. The retail sale of fuels and related automotive goods may also be
provided on-premises on accessory basis.
      AWNING. A structure made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be raised or retracted from a
building to a flat position against the building, but not to include a canopy.
      BAKERY (RETAIL). The use of a structure or building for the production of
bakery products including, but not limited to, breads, cakes, pastries and
doughnuts. When identified in this chapter as a retail use, the bakery products
produced are for the direct sale to the consumer with no wholesale production
or sales.
      BANK TELLER MACHINE. A machine which dispenses cash and allows the user
to make bank transactions without personal contact and without entering a bank
or other financial institution. Use of machines is generally not limited to
specific hours of operation. Unit may be associated with a financial
institution or free-standing either outdoor or within a building.
      BANNER. A sign intended to be hung either with or without a frame,
possessing characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to
plastic or fabric of any kind, excluding flags and emblems of political,
professional, religious, educational or corporate organizations.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A use that:
         (a)   Takes place within a building that prior to such establishment,
was designed and used as a single-family residence;
         (b)   Consists of renting one or more dwelling rooms on a daily basis
to tourists, vacationers and similar transients;
         (c)   Where the provision of meals, if provision of meals is made, is
limited to the breakfast meal, available only to guests; and
         (d)   Where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted primarily by
persons who reside in the dwelling unit, with the assistance of not more than
the equivalent of one full-time employee.
      BLOOD RELATIVE. For the purposes of this chapter, the great-grandparents,
grandparents, parents, children, brothers, sisters and their spouses and the
parents-in-law of the owner/occupant of the principal structure.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, rooming house or bed and
breakfast inn, containing not more than nine guest rooms. At least one meal is
provided to guests. Individual guest rooms may not contain kitchens.
      BOOK STORE. A commercial establishment where books are the primary item
sold. An establishment which sells books and meets the definition of “adult
use”, as herein defined, shall not be considered a BOOK STORE.
      BROADCAST TOWER. An above-grade tower or similar structure more than 35
feet in height, intended for communications equipment principally intended for
the transmittal or reception of commercial, governmental, educational and
public television and radio signals. Towers or similar structures installed on
or attached to tops of buildings, water tanks or similar facilities shall be
included in this definition. This definition includes accessory buildings and
related equipment required for BROADCAST TOWERS.
      BUFFER. A strip of land with natural or planted vegetation located
between a structure and a side or rear property line intended to separate and
partially obstruct the view of two adjacent land uses or properties from one
another. A BUFFER AREA may include any required screening for the site.
      BUILDING. A temporary or permanent structure having a roof supported by
exterior walls or constructed columns and which can be used for residence,
business, industry or other public or private purposes or accessory thereto.
The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the words “or parts
thereof”.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A structure that is customarily or typically
subordinate to and serves a principal use or structure; is clearly subordinate
in area, extent or purpose to the principal use or structure served; and is
located on the same lot as the principal use or structure. In no event shall
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE be construed to authorize a principal use or structure not
otherwise permitted in the district in which the use is located.
      BUILDING FRONT. The side of the building closest to and most nearly
parallel with the street which provides access to the lot. In the case of a
corner lot or through lot, either side abutting a street may be considered to
be the front; provided, the building is situated so that it meets all front,
side and rear yard requirements.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use
on the lot on which said building is situated. In any residential (R) zoning
district, any structure containing a dwelling unit shall be deemed to be the
PRINCIPAL BUILDING on the lot where it is located.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of the building to the highest point of a flat
roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING AND HOME MATERIALS CENTER. (I.e., hardware stores.) A retail
establishment which may sell various household goods, paints, building and
hardware products, household animal supplies, nursery and yard goods and
durable goods (e.g., lawn mowers, appliances and the like). Such an
establishment shall be a gross leasable area of no greater than 15,000 square
feet. All retail stock (except plant materials) which is stored outside must be
screened in accordance with §
155.098 of this chapter.
      BUILDING LINE. The edge of a building closest to the street.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line establishing the minimum allowable distance
between the nearest portion of any building (or any attached appurtenance
thereof), including eaves and overhangs, and the nearest edge of the street
right-of-way when measured perpendicular thereto.
      BULK STORAGE. Storage material in containers or tanks for sale to retail
dealers, distributors or outlets or for storage prior to disposal.
      BULLETIN BOARD. A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held
on the premises of a church, school, auditorium, library, museum, community
recreation center or similar non- commercial places of public assembly.
      BUS TERMINAL, PASSENGER. Any premises for the transient housing or
parking of motor-driven buses and the loading and unloading of passengers going
on inter-city bus trips.
      BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign that directs attention to a
business, profession or industry located upon the premises where the sign is
displayed; to the type of products sold, manufactured or assembled; and/or to
services or entertainment offered on said premises, but not a sign pertaining
to the preceding if such activity is only minor and incidental to the principal
use of the premises.
      BUSINESS PARK. A development on a tract of land which contains two or
more separate office buildings, constructed and managed in an integrated and
coordinated basis. A BUSINESS PARK may also be cited as an OFFICE PARK.
      BUSINESS SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in rendering services
(which are not listed elsewhere in this chapter) to business establishments on
a contract or fee basis. These services include, but are not limited to:
advertising; claims adjusters; and computer software development.
      CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Land containing two or more
campsites which are located, established or maintained for occupancy by people
in temporary living quarters, such as tents, recreation vehicles or travel
trailers which are solely used for recreation or vacation purposes. A
“manufactured home park” shall not be deemed a CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARK.
      CAMPSITE. Any plot of ground within a campground intended for the
exclusive occupancy by a cabin, recreational vehicle or tent.
      CANOPY. A permanent structure other than an awning made of cloth, metal
or other material attached or unattached to a building for the purpose of
providing shelter to patrons or automobiles, or as a decorative feature on a
building wall. A CANOPY is not a completely enclosed structure.
      CARNIVAL. A traveling enterprise offering outdoor amusements, games,
rides and shows for entertainment purposes.
      CEMETERY. Property used for the interment of the dead, which use may
include the commercial sale and location of burial lots, crypts or vaults for
use exclusively on the subject property. A CEMETERY shall not be used for the
preparation or embalming of bodies or the cremation of bodies. Setback for
CEMETERIES shall be measured from the nearest structure or gravesite. This
definition shall be construed to include bona fide pet cemeteries.
      CENTERLINE OF STREET. The centerline of a right-of-way, as defined or
surveyed by the state’s Department of Transportation.
      CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A statement, signed by an administrative
officer, setting forth that a building, structure or use complies with this
chapter and Building Codes and that the same may be used for the purposes
stated on the permit.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate allowing the occupancy or use of
a building and certifying that the structure or use has been constructed or
will be used in compliance with this chapter and all other applicable
regulations.
      CHANGEABLE COPY. The display area of a sign where characters, letters or
illuminations can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface
of the sign.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS. Non-profit organizations which are supported
primarily by charity and whose principal function is the performance of
charitable works or religious activities. This definition shall include, but
not be limited to: churches; mosques; synagogues; or other religious
institutions. Not included in this definition are social organizations and
clubs.
      CHURCH (OR OTHER HOUSE OF WORSHIP). A building or structure, or group of
buildings or structures, which by design and construction are primarily
intended for conducting organized religious services whose site may include an
accessory area for the interment of the dead. Day care centers (which have
enrollment capacities in excess of 25 enrollees) and/or schools operated by the
church on the facilities of the church shall be considered separate principal
uses.
      CLINIC. Establishments where humans receive treatment of illnesses or
pregnancy, or examinations by a doctor, dentist, optician, psychologist or
other similar medical professional on an out- patient basis.
      CLUB or LODGE. A building or site used by a non-profit membership
organization for recreational or social purposes.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project.
      CLUSTER HOUSING. Dwelling units grouped on lots with smaller dimensions
than normally permitted within a zoning district in exchange for the provision
of permanent open space within the same development.
      COLLEGE or UNIVERSITY. An institution other than a trade school that
provides full-time or part-time education beyond high school.
      CO-LOCATION. The location of wireless telecommunications antennas/
equipment from more than one provider on one common tower or structure.
      COLUMBARIUM. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the interment of the cremated remains of a deceased
person or animal.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE STORAGE AND/OR OPERATIONS CENTER. A facility
specifically designated for routine storing and/or servicing of six or more
commercial vehicles (except septic tank and solid waste vehicles) operated by
the same entity.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Land and/or water areas within the site designated for
development, not individually owned or dedicated for public use, which are
designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of the residents of the
development, but not including any lands occupied by streets, street rights-of-
way or off-street parking.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE, IMPROVED. Common open space which has been improved
with recreational areas and amenities such as, but not limited to, ballfields,
tennis courts, swimming pools, nature trails, clubhouses and the like.
      COMMUNITY CENTER. A building used for recreational, social, educational
and cultural activities, usually owned and operated by a public or non-profit
group or agency.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A special authorization for a conditional use
which may be subject to any specific restrictions or conditions on its size,
location, intent, character of use and the like, as determined by the Town
Council.
      CONDOMINIUM. A form of property ownership whereby the owner gains
ownership of an interior space within a building. The building structure, the
land under the building and all of the surrounding land is commonly owned by
all the inhabitants on a proportional basis.
      CONSTRUCTION TRAILER. A structure standing on wheels towed or hauled by
another vehicle and used for neither overnight, nor year-round, occupancy at
the construction site on a temporary basis for office purposes.
      CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting or touching and having a boundary, or
portion thereof, which is contiguous including properties traversed or
separated by a road, stream, right-of-way or similar human-made or natural
configuration. The term CONTIGUOUS shall also mean ABUTTING or ADJACENT.
      CONTINUING CARE FACILITY. A residential complex which contains a variety
of living facilities which may include independent living units (i.e.,
apartments, condominiums, cottages), assisted living (domiciliary care)
facilities and/or nursing home beds. Residents of such a facility may either
pay rent or purchase their living quarters. If the unit is occupant-owned, the
unit normally reverts to the development owner upon the death of the resident
or to a surviving spouse.
      CONTRACTORS. General contractors and builders or specialized contractors
who engage in the construction or remodeling of buildings, either residences or
commercial structures including, but not limited to, heating, air conditioning,
painting, plumbing and roofing. Also included are heavy construction
contractors engaged in activities such as paving, highway construction and
utility construction.
      CONVALESCENT CENTER or NURSING HOME. A facility that provides nursing
services and custodial care on a 24-hour basis for three or more unrelated
individuals who for reasons of illness, physical infirmity or advanced age
require such services.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A one story, retail store operating any time between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and midnight containing less than 3,000 square feet of
gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell primarily fuel, food
(packaged and/or prepared), beverages and other household supplies to customers
who purchase a relatively few items (in contrast to a “food store”). It is
designed to attract, and depends upon, a large volume of stop-and-go traffic.
      CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A public or privately operated facility used for:
         (a)   The temporary incarceration of persons after arrest or pending
hearing or trial or for the incarceration and or housing of persons serving
sentences; or
         (b)   Incarceration or housing of persons serving criminal sentences.
      COUNTRY CLUB. A land area and buildings containing recreational
facilities, clubhouses and usual accessory uses, open to members and their
guests which is privately operated. Uses at a country club frequently include
golf courses, swimming pools (outdoors) and clubhouses. Meal service may be
available, but is generally limited to members and their guests. A COUNTRY CLUB
may be developed as a free-standing entity or as part of a residential
community or planned residential development.
      CRAFT STUDIO. An establishment where works of art are individually crated
on-premises by no more than five artisans and which are sold at the same
location to the general public. Artisans shall include sculptors, potters, wood
and leather craftsmen, glass blowers, weavers, silversmiths, designers of
ornamental and precious jewelry, screen printers and air brushers.
      CUL-DE-SAC. The turn around at the end of a dead-end street.
      CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted for gain entirely within the
dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and subordinate to the residential use and which does not change the
character thereof and in connection with which there is no display. When
observed from beyond the lot on which it is located, the HOME OCCUPATION does
not give visual, audible, sensory or physical evidence that the property is
used for any non-residential purpose.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A place where daytime care is provided to six or more
children, handicapped persons or senior citizens unrelated by blood or marriage
to, and not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult within an
occupied residence. Persons who are related by blood or marriage to the
attendant adult shall not be counted as patrons of the DAY CARE CENTER.
      DAY CARE CENTER ASSOCIATED WITH PLACE OF WORSHIP OR SCHOOL. A day care
center run by a church or school where day care is provided to children,
handicapped persons, or senior citizens. The DAY CARE CENTER may be located on
the grounds of the church or school; located on a piece of property owned by
the church or school which lies within 500 linear feet of the lot containing
the church or school; or, on a lot owned by the church or school where
religious or educational activities are regularly conducted.
      DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY.
         (a)   A place where daytime care is provided to not more than five
children, handicapped persons or senior citizens unrelated by blood or marriage
to, and not the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult, within
an occupied residence. Persons who are related by blood or marriage to the
attendant adult shall not be counted as patrons of the FAMILY DAY CARE HOME.
For the purpose of this chapter, such activities shall meet all requirements
for customary home occupations.
         (b)   If children are the primary clients of the FAMILY DAY CARE HOME,
the following standards must be met.
            1.   The home shall meet all state standards for registration and
inspections.
            2.   The number of children does not exceed five preschool
children, including the caregiver’s children and three school aged children not
including the caregiver’s children.
      DENSITY, GROSS.
         (a)   A ratio expressed as the number of dwelling units per gross
acre.
         (b)   The ratio is derived by dividing the total number of dwelling
units by the total land area (in acres) used or proposed to be used for
purposes such as buildings, roads, public facilities and open spaces.
      DEVELOPMENT, EXISTING. Those projects that are built or those projects
that at a minimum have established a vested right under the state’s Zoning Law
as of the effective date of this chapter based on at least one of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based
on a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval
to proceed with the project;
         (b)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by
G.S. § 160A-385.1; or
         (c)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-385.1.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A type of plan which becomes part of the zoning for a
property. The plan depicts site characteristics and development information as
specified in this chapter. The DEVELOPMENT PLAN provides guidance for site
plans.
      DIET HOUSE or DIET FACILITY. A facility housing a dietary treatment
program supervised by trained professionals which may also contain temporary
living quarters for clients.
      DOCTOR’S OFFICE. An office facility containing space for patient waiting
rooms and laboratory space for medical doctors (MDs), osteopaths,
chiropractors, dentists, podiatrists, acupuncturists or psychologists, licensed
nurse/midwife, licensed physical therapist, licensed respiratory therapist or
optometrist.
      DRIVE-THRU OR DRIVE-UP WINDOW ESTABLISHMENT. A window or other opening in
the wall of a principal or accessory building through which goods or services
are provided directly to customers in motor vehicles by means that eliminate
the need for such customers to exit their motor vehicles.
      DRUGSTORE. See PHARMACY.
      DRY CLEANING AND LAUNDRY PLANT. A commercial facility at which clothes
are brought to be dry cleaned and/or laundered from individual dry cleaning
services. Such a facility may be free-standing or combined with a dry cleaning
service facility.
      DRY CLEANING SERVICES OUTLET. An establishment engaged in providing
laundry, dry cleaning and other related services on a pick up and drop off
basis to individual customers. The actual laundering and/or dry cleaning of
clothes may only take place at a dry cleaning and laundry plant.
      DUPLEX. Two dwelling units, including modular homes, attached along and
sharing one or more common walls and located on a single lot. This shall also
include the term TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED. A single-family dwelling attached to two or more one-
family dwellings by common vertical walls.
      DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling unit that is developed with open yards on
all sides. This shall include modular homes, but shall not include manufactured
homes.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, used or designed
as a residence for three or more families living independently of each other,
including apartment houses, apartment hotels and group housing projects,
triplex, quadruplexes and townhouses.
      DWELLING, PATIO HOME. A one-family dwelling unit on a separate lot with
open space setbacks on three sides and with a court. PATIO HOMES may be
attached to similar units on adjacent lots and still meet this definition and
are, therefore, known as ZERO LOT LINE HOMES.
      DWELLING, QUADRUPLEX. Four attached dwellings in one building in which
each unit has two open space exposures and shares one or two walls, with
adjoining unit or units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family, but not to include manufactured homes as defined by
this chapter. Modular housing, as defined elsewhere, is included in this
definition.
      DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three
such units in which each unit has its own front door and rear access to the
outside, no unit is located over another unit, and each unit is separated from
any other unit by one or more vertical fire-resistant walls.
      DWELLING, TRIPLEX. A building containing three dwelling units, each of
which has direct access to the outside or to a common wall.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
two families living independently of each other, sharing one or more common
walls and located on a single lot. Also known as a DUPLEX.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family. The term DWELLING shall not be
deemed to include a motel, hotel, bed and breakfast inn, manufactured home or
other structure designed for transient residence. Included in this definition
are “stick-built” and/or modular construction. “Manufactured housing” is
defined elsewhere in this section.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Publicly or privately owned facilities or systems for
the distribution of gas, electricity, steam or water; the collection and
disposal of sewage or refuse; the transmission of communications; or similar
functions necessary for the provision of public services. Radio transmission
facilities for use by ham radio operators or two-way radio facilities for
business or governmental communications shall be deemed accessory uses and not
ESSENTIAL SERVICES; provided, no transmitter or antenna tower exceeds 100 feet
in height. ESSENTIAL SERVICES are divided into the following three classes.
         (a)   CLASS 1. Transmission lines (whether, subterranean or overhead)
including electrical, natural gas and water distribution lines; sewer gravity
lines and pressure mains; underground septic tanks and drain fields, cable
television and telephone transmission lines; or similar utility lines; pumping
stations; lift stations; telephone switching facilities (up to 100 square feet
gross floor area).
         (b)   CLASS 2. Elevated water storage tanks; booster stations, package
treatment plants, telephone switching facilities (over 100 square feet gross
floor area), substations or other similarly required facilities in connection
with telephone, electric, steam, water, sewer or other similar utilities and
minor offices associated with such facilities.
         (c)   CLASS 3. Generation, production or treatment facilities such as
power plants, water treatment plant, sewage treatment plants (excluding package
treatment plants), radio and television broadcast towers or similar utilities;
microwave radio towers; sanitary landfills; septic tank waste disposal
facilities.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES OPERATION CENTER. A facility where trucks, goods and/
or equipment for an essential service operation (e.g., a public utility) are
stored (either indoors or outdoors). The facility may also serve as a base of
operations for certain workers employed by the essential service operation.
      FAIRGROUNDS. An area where outdoor fairs, circuses or exhibitions are
held.
      FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage
or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of
household servants; or a group of not more than six persons who need not be
related by blood, marriage or adoption living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
      FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and rehabilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident persons, who because of age,
illness, handicap or specialized program, require personalized services or a
supervised living arrangement in order to assure their safety and comfort, as
defined by G.S. § 168-21(2). All FAMILY CARE HOME FACILITIES shall be regulated
by the state.
      FARM. See AGRICULTURAL USES.
      FARM SUPPLY STORE. An establishment where feed, seed, animal and
agricultural supplies are primarily sold in bulk quantities.
      FARMER’S MARKET. An outdoor market open to no greater than 50 vendors at
which locally grown fruits and vegetables, bakery items, condiments, flowers,
plants and craft goods are sold on a retail basis. Vehicles used to transport
the products to be sold shall be limited to cars, vans and trucks of no greater
than three-quarter ton in weight capacity.
      FENCE. A devise made of chain links, posts, wires or boards designed to
serve as a barrier or otherwise to mark off the boundaries of a piece of
property, or portion thereof. A FENCE is not a structure.
      FINANCE COMPANY. A commercial establishment which makes short- and long-
term loans to individuals.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. A commercial bank, a mortgage bank, a savings
bank, a saving and loan association or a credit union any of which are
licensed, insured or chartered by the United States of America or the State of
North Carolina.
      FLAG. A piece of durable fabric of distinctive design attached to a
permanent pole, that is used as a symbol or decorative feature.
      FLASHING SIGN. A sign that uses an intermittent, scrolled or flashing
light or message to attract attention or is otherwise designed or constructed
to have intermittent, flashing or scrolled light emitted from it.
      FLEA MARKET. A market held on pre-established dates in an open area or
structure where individual sellers offer goods for sale to the public. Such
sellers may set up temporary stalls or tables for the sale of their products.
Such sales may involve new and/or used items and may include the sale of
fruits, vegetables and other eatable items. The individual sellers at the FLEA
MARKET need not be the same each time the market is in operation.
      FLEX SPACE. Buildings designed and marketed as suitable for offices, but
with space available that is able to a accommodate bulk storage, showroom
manufacturing, assembly or similar operations. Generally, FLEX SPACE has
storefront type windows in the office area of the space.
      FLORIST, RETAIL. A retail commercial establishment where flowers or
ornamental plants are sold indoors.
      FOOD CATERING FACILITY. A facility at which a pre-arranged amount and
type of food is prepared for consumption off-premises or in a meeting room on-
premises. A FOOD CATERING FACILITY differs from a restaurant in that food is
not offered for sale to the general public on a retail basis.
      FOOD STORE or GROCERY STORE. An establishment which may sell a wide
variety of fresh produce, canned and packaged food items, small household goods
and similar items which are consumed and used off premises. In addition, the
store may contain a delicatessen section in which prepared foods are sold and
may be consumed on premises in a specially designed sit-down area. Sales of
grocery items are highly dependent on comparison shopping.
      FORTUNE TELLER. A commercial establishment where people go to have their
fortunes predicted through the use of astrology, card reading, numerology and
the like. If located in a residential zoning district, it may only take place
as a customary home occupation only.
      FRATERNAL AND SERVICE ORGANIZATION MEETING FACILITY (NON-PROFIT AND NOT-
FOR-PROFIT). A facility operated by an association of persons for activities
which include, but are not limited to, social, literary, political,
educational, fraternal, charitable or labor activities, but which are not
operated for profit or to render a service which is customarily conducted as a
business.
      FREE-STANDING/SELF-SUPPORTING TOWER. All telecommunications towers which
are placed on an independent base and erected without support from other
structures. Monopoles and lattice towers are types of FREE-STANDING TOWERS.
      FRONTAGE. The dimension of a property or portion of a property that is
adjacent to a street; side yards of corner lots are excluded.
      FUEL STATION (GAS STATION). A fuel dispensing pump, which may contain
more than one fuel nozzle, designed to accommodate one or two vehicles at a
time. If two vehicles are accommodated at the same time, fuel nozzles serving
the two vehicles shall be located on opposite sides of the fuel pump.
      FUNERAL HOME. A facility used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation. Also, a facility where funeral services are held,
funeral vehicles are stores and caskets and other funeral supplies are sold.
      GAME ROOM/VIDEO ARCADE. An indoor commercial facility providing
recreational and entertainment activities that typically include coin-operated
amusement machines such as pinball machines, electronic video games and
skeetball machines. A facility shall be deemed a VIDEO ARCADE if it has eight
or more of such machines. If three or more pool tables are provided, the
facility shall also be deemed a BILLIARD PARLOR. The facility could include
food and beverage services, but incidental to the games.
      GARAGE SALE. See YARD SALE.
      GARDEN SUPPLY AND SEED STORE. A retail establishment at which animal
feed, crop seeds and related products are sold. The milling and grinding of
feed or flour at such establishments shall be prohibited as shall the storage
of milled products. The sale of agricultural chemicals shall be limited to
general retail use (as distinguished from an “animal supply store” where large
quantities of agricultural chemicals are sold for agricultural purposes).
      GOLF COURSE. A tract of land for playing golf, improved with tees,
fairways, hazards and which may include clubhouses and shelters.
      GRADE OF STREET. The height of the top of the curb or, if no curb exists,
the height of the edge of pavement in the lane of travel adjacent to the side
of the street at which grade is being measured.
      GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale.
      GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL. An establishment whose primary business is the
growing of plants through the use of one or more on-premises greenhouses.
      GROSS DENSITY. The quotient of the total number of dwelling units divided
by the total gross acreage of a site.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of each floor of
the principal building, measured from the exterior walls or from the centerline
of the party walls, including the floor area of accessory structures. The term
does not include any area used exclusively for the parking of motor vehicles or
for building or equipment access such as stairs, elevator shafts and
maintenance crawlspaces or unused attics. This term also excludes pedestrian
walkways and common areas within enclosed shopping areas.
      GROSS TRACT AREA or GROSS ACREAGE. The total area of a project including
rights- of-way, open space and dedicated public properties.
      GROUND COVERS. Low growing plants such as grasses, ivies, creeping bushes
and similar decorative plantings. Where required by this chapter, GROUND COVERS
shall have the capability of soil stabilization and erosion control.
      GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A group of two or more principal structures built on a
single lot, tract or parcel of land not subdivided into the customary streets
and lots and which will not be so subdivided, and designed for occupancy by
separate families, businesses or other enterprises. Examples of a GROUP
DEVELOPMENT include: cluster-type subdivisions; row houses; apartment
complexes; housing projects; school and hospital campuses and shopping centers;
business parks; and the like.
      GROUP CARE FACILITY/GROUP HOME. A dwelling operated under state
regulations, and licensed by the state, by whatever name it is called, other
than a “family care home”, as herein defined, with support and supervisory
personnel that provides room and board, personal care or rehabilitation
services in a family environment for not more than 30 individuals who as a
result of age, illness, handicap or some specialized program, require
personalized serves or a supervised living arrangement in order to assure their
safety and comfort. All GROUP HOME FACILITIES shall be regulated by the state.
Additional requirements may be imposed by the North Carolina Building Code.
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person with a physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life activities; a
person with a record of having such an impairment; or a person who is regarded
as having such an impairment. This term does not include current, illegal use
of or addition to a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802.
      HOME CENTERS (HOME IMPROVEMENT STORE). An establishment which may sell
various household goods, tools and building materials, curable household goods
(e.g., refrigerators, lawn care machines, washing machines), electronic
equipment, household animal supplies, nursery products and the like. Retail
stock (e.g., nursery items, lumber goods) may be kept outdoors. All such stock
(except plant materials) shall be screened in accordance with §
155.058 of this chapter. At least 75% of all indoor floor good space shall be
for retail sales. Likely examples of such uses include “Home Depot”, “Home
Quarters” and the like.
      HOME DECORATING CENTER. A commercial establishment which sells decorating
items (e.g., paint, wallpaper, carpet, linoleum, tile and the like) and may
also supply in-house professional home decorating assistance.
      HOME IMPROVEMENT STORES. See HOME CENTERS.
      HOME SCHOOL. A home school in which one or more children of not more than
two families or households receive academic instruction from parents or legal
guardians, or from a member of either household. A HOME SCHOOL shall be
considered a customary home occupation.
      HOSPITAL. An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or
injured, including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient
services, training facilities, central service facilities, emergency services
and staff offices.
      HOTEL. A facility offering transient lodging accommodations to the
general public and which may provide additional services such as restaurants,
meeting rooms and recreation facilities.
      HOUSEHOLD. A family living together in a single dwelling unit, with
common access to and common use of all living and eating areas and all areas
and facilities for the preparation and serving of food within the dwelling
unit.
      INDEPENDENT LIVING CENTER. An establishment which provides living
facilities to seven or more persons with physical or mental disabilities
(irrespective of age). Congregate meals may be provided at such facilities.
However, residents are expected to provide other basic living services.
      INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
      INTERIOR DECORATOR. A commercial establishment from where professional
home interior decorating services are provided. The on-site retail sale of
furniture and other home furnishings to the general public shall not be
offered, however, cloth, wallpaper and paint samples may be provided.
      JUNK YARD and AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD. The use of more than 600 square
feet of the area of any lot for the outdoor storage, keeping or abandonment of
junk, including scrap metals or other scrap materials, or for the dismantling,
demolition or abandonment of automobiles, vehicles or machinery or parts
thereof.
      KENNEL, ANIMAL. See ANIMAL KENNEL.
      LANDFILL, SANITARY. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in
a sanitary manner in accordance with G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9. For the purpose of
§ 4.4, this term does not include compost facilities.
      LARGE MATURING TREE. A tree whose height is greater than 35 feet at
maturity and has a minimum caliper of two and one-half inches at the time of
planting and meets the specifications of American Standards for Nursery Stock,
published by the American Association of Nurseryman.
      LATTICE TOWER. A free-standing and self-supporting structure consisting
of connected sections of metal supports used to support telecommunications
equipment. These towers can be either three or four-legged steel girded
structures designed typically to support multiple telecommunications users.
      LAUNDROMAT. A commercial facility open to the general public where coin-
operated washing and drying machines are available for use.
      LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An off-street space or berth on the same lot
with a building or contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking
of commercial vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT. A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some
legal instrument such as a recorded deed or a recorded map and which is
recognized as a separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title.
      LOT AREA. The total area circumscribed by the boundaries of a lot; except
that:
         (a)   When the legal instrument creating a lot shows the boundary of
the lot extending into a public street right-of-way, then the lot boundary for
purposes of computing the lot area shall be the street right-of-way line; or
         (b)   If the right-of-way line cannot be determined, a line running
parallel to and 30 feet from the center of the traveled portion of the street.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection
of two street lines which make an angle of more than 45 degrees and less than
135 degrees with each other. The street line forming the least frontage shall
be deemed the front of the lot, except where the two street lines are equal; in
which case, the owner shall be required to specify which is the front when
requesting a zoning permit.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot which separates one lot from
another lot or separates that lot from a public or private street or any other
public space.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from a street right-of-
way.
      LOT LINE HOUSE. A single-family detached dwelling unit which is placed
against one of the side lot lines. Such dwelling unit has a front and rear
yard, but only one side yard.
      LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A lot line which does not have street frontage.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line abutting another lot and which is not a
front or rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county or a lot
described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot which fronts upon two parallel streets, or which
fronts upon two streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the building
setback line.
      LOUNGE. An establishment (e.g., bar, tavern) used primarily for the
serving of alcoholic beverages to patrons and where the sale of prepared food
if provided, is accessory to the primary use. Any LOUNGE which provides
facilities or services which satisfy any portion of the definition of “adult
establishment”, per G.S. § 14.202.10, shall be considered an “adult
establishment”.
      MACHINE SHOP. A workshop in which work is machined to size and assembled.
      MANUFACTURED GOODS, CLASS 1.
         (a)   Manufacturing, refining, processing or assembly of goods or
products subject to the following limitations: (Note: the term “SIC” shall
refer to the Standard Industrial Classification System as set forth in the SIC
Manual, published by the United States of America, Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, and unless a use is defined in this
chapter, the SIC Manual shall be used to define, clarify or more specifically
identify the uses and groups of uses listed. While the SIC Manual uses the term
“establishments primarily engaged in” in defining types of manufacturing
operations, this chapter shall be construed to mean that if the activity is
conducted at all within the use and that activity is listed as being
conditional, then the entire use shall be deemed a “conditional use” as opposed
to a “permitted use”.)
         (b)   All manufacturing industries not listed in manufactured goods,
Class 2 (as identified by their SIC Group Number, Division or Industry Number
(s)) are considered to be CLASS 1 uses. Please refer to the definition of
“manufactured goods, Class 2".
      MANUFACTURED GOODS, CLASS 2.
         (a)   Manufacturing, refining, processing or assembly of goods or
products subject to the following limitations: (Note: the term “SIC” shall
refer to the Standard Industrial Classification System as set forth in the SIC
Manual, published by the United States of America, Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, and unless a use is defined in this
chapter, the SIC Manual shall be used to define, clarify or more specifically
identify the uses and groups of uses listed. While the SIC Manual uses the term
“establishments primarily engaged in” in defining types of manufacturing
operations, this chapter shall be construed to mean that if the activity is
conducted at all within the use and that activity is listed as being
conditional, then the entire use shall be deemed a “conditional use” as opposed
to a “permitted use”.)
         (b)   The following uses are subject to the issuance of a conditional
use permit, and are classified as CLASS 2 uses:
            1.   Meat packing plants and poultry dressing plants (SIC #2011,
2015);
            2.   Pickled fruits and vegetables (SIC #2035);
            3.   Flour and other grain mill products, sugar refining (SIC
#2041, 2061, 2062, 2063);
            4.   Animal feeds and pet foods (SIC #2047, 2048);
            5.   Fats and oils (SIC Group #207);
            6.   Beer/malt beverages, wines, brandy, distilled and blended
liquor, roasted coffee (SIC #2082, 2083, 2084, 2085, 2095);
            7.   Processing and packing of canned, cured, fresh or frozen fish
and seafood (SIC #2091, 2092);
            8.   The following manufacturing listed under SIC #2099:
               a.   Yeast;
               b.   Molasses and sweetening syrups; and
               c.   Vinegar.
            9.   Tobacco products (SIC Major Group #21);
            10.   Dying and finishing textiles, except wool fabrics and knit
goods (SIC Group #226) and, under SIC #2231, 2253, 2252, 2251, the dying and
finishing of wool and similar animal fibers;
            11.   Coated fabrics, rubberized and not rubberized; canvas and
related products (SIC #2295, 2394, 3069);
            12.   Sawmills and planing mills, general (SIC #2421);
            13.   Wood building and mobile homes (SIC Group #245);
            14.   Wood preserving; reconstituted wood products; pulp mills;
paper mills; paperboard mills (SIC #2491, 2493; SIC Group #261; SIC Group 262;
SIC Group 263);
            15.   Industrial inorganic chemicals; plastic materials, synthetic
resins and rubber, cellulosic and other human-made fibers, except glass (SIC
Group #281; SIC Group #282);
            16.   Soaps, detergents and cleaning preparations; perfumes,
cosmetics and other toilet preparations (SIC Group #284);
            17.   Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels and allied products (SIC
Group #285);
            18.   Industrial organic chemicals; agricultural chemicals
(fertilizers, pesticides and the like) (SIC Group #281; SIC Group #287);
            19.   Miscellaneous chemical products (all products listed under
SIC Group #289) (e.g., adhesives, sealants, explosives, printing ink, carbon
black and “other chemical and chemical preparations” listed in SIC #2899);
            20.   Petroleum refining (SIC Group #291);
            21.   Asphalt paving and roofing materials (SIC Group #295);
            22.   Lubricating oils and greases (SIC #2992);
            23.   Products of petroleum and coal classified under SIC #2999;
            24.   Tires and innertubes (SIC Group #301);
            25.   Plastic products found under SIC Group #308 when resins are
made at the same facility;
            26.   Leather tanning and finishing (SIC Group #311);
            27.   Flat glass; glass and glassware (SIC Group #321; SIC Group
#322);
            28.   Cement, hydraulic (SIC Group #324);
            29.   Structural clay products (SIC Group #325);
            30.   Pottery and related products (SIC Group #326) except handmade
pottery and arts and crafts operations involving no more than 1,000 cubic feet
of kiln space;
            31.   Concrete gypsum and plastic products; cut stone and stone
products (SIC Group #327; SIC Group #328);
            32.   Abrasive products; asbestos products; mineral wool; (SIC
#3291; SIC #3292; SIC #3296);
            33.   Minerals and earths, ground or otherwise treated (SIC #3295);
            34.   Non-clay refractories (SIC #3297);
            35.   Miscellaneous non-metallic mineral products listed under SIC
Code #3299;
            36.   Steel works, blast furnaces, and rolling and finishing mills;
iron and steel foundries; primary and secondary smelting and refining of non-
ferrous metals; rolling, drawing and extruding of non-ferrous metals; non-
ferrous foundries; (SIC Group #331; SIC Group #332; SIC Group #333 and 334; SIC
Group #335; SIC Group #336);
            37.   Metal heat treating; metal forging-iron, steel and non-
ferrous; coating and engraving of metals and allied services (SIC #3398, SIC
#3462 and #3463; SIC Group #347);
            38.   Manufacture of other primary metal products listed under SIC
#3399;
            39.   Manufacture of ordnance (arms, ammunition and the like) and
accessories, except vehicles and guided missiles (SIC Group #348);
            40.   Power, distribution and specialty transformers (SIC #3612);
            41.   Electrical industrial carbon and graphic products (SIC
#3624);
            42.   Storage batteries; primary batteries, dry and wet (SIC #3691;
SIC #3692);
            43.   Motor vehicles; truck, bus and passenger car bodies; truck
trailers; motor homes (SIC #3711, 3713; SIC #3715; SIC #3716);
            44.   Railroad equipment (SIC #3743);
            45.   Motorcycles (SIC #3751), except bicycles and bicycle parts;
            46.   Aircraft; guided missiles and space vehicles and parts (SIC
#3721; SIC Group #376);
            47.   Under SIC #3792 - camping trailers;
            48.   (Military) tanks (and related armored vehicles) (SIC #3795),
but not tank components;
            49.   Under SIC #3861, all photographic supplies, but not
photographic equipment;
            50.   Under SIC #3952 all inks, paints, oils, enamels and crayons;
            51.   Carbon paper and inked ribbons (SIC #3955);
            52.   Linoleum, asphalt - felt-base, and other hard surface floor
covering listed under SIC #3996); and
            53.   Mining (all of SIC Division B).
      MANUFACTURED HOME (CLASS A, B, C). (See also individual definitions
below.)
         (a)   A residential unit that is not constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and is
composed of one or more components, each of which was substantially assembled
in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported to a site on its own
chassis. Such MANUFACTURED HOMES are distinguished from modular homes because a
modular home meets the standards set forth in the North Carolina Building Code.
         (b)   The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles. Within the text of this chapter,
when the term single-family dwelling is used it shall not include a
MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A (DOUBLE WIDE, PITCHED ROOF BUILT AFTER 1976).
         (a)   A manufactured home constructed after 7-1-1976 that meets or
exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of construction
and that satisfies the following criteria.
            1.   The manufactured home has a length not exceeding four times
its width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at
the narrowest part of the other axis.
            2.   The manufactured home has a minimum of 960 square feet of
enclosed and heated living area per dwelling area.
            3.   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of three feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run and the roof is
finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used in standard residential
construction.
            4.   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no
less than six inches, which may include a gutter.
            5.   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or
aluminum horizontal siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss
white paint), wood or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction.
            6.   The MANUFACTURED HOME is set up in accordance with the
standards set by the state’s Department of Insurance. Screening of the
foundation area shall be by a continuous, permanent masonry foundation or
masonry curtain wall which is in accordance with North Carolina Building Code
and Minimum Housing Code regulations, unbroken except for required ventilation
and access, and which is installed under the perimeter of the MANUFACTURED
HOME.
            7.   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the MANUFACTURED HOME shall be installed or
constructed in accordance with the standards set by the North Carolina Building
Code, free-standing or attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored
securely to the ground.
            8.   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights
have been removed.
         (b)   It is the intent of these criteria to ensure that a CLASS A
MANUFACTURED HOME, when installed, shall have substantially the appearance of
an on-site, conventionally built, single-family dwelling.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B (SINGLE WIDE BUILT AFTER 1976). A manufactured
home constructed after 7-1-1976 that meets or exceeds the construction
standards promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
that were in effect at the time of construction. CLASS B MANUFACTURED HOMES are
not allowed in the town, except as existing structures permitted prior to the
adoption of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C (BUILT BEFORE 1976). Any manufactured home
that does not meet the definition of a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
CLASS C MANUFACTURED HOMES are not allowed in the town, except as existing
structures permitted prior to the adoption of this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A recorded subdivision containing
residential lots for individual sale and occupancy by Class A or B manufactured
homes.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A residential development under single ownership
with sites for manufactured homes of Class A or B and various other facilities
for the residents of the development.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. Any premises within a manufactured home park
used or intended to be used or occupied by one manufactured home, together with
automobile parking space, utility structures and other required facilities
incidental thereto.
      MEDICAL CENTER. A facility housing the offices of three or more doctors
where out-patient medical services are routinely provided to the general
public. Overnight stays of patients at such facilities shall not be allowed.
      MEMORIAL SIGN OR PLAQUE. A sign designating names of buildings and/or
date of erection and other items such as architect, contractor or others
involved in a building’s creation, cut into or attached to a building surface.
      MINIATURE GOLF COURSE. A commercial enterprise consisting of a golf
course open to the general public where each hole is enclosed in a contained
area.
      MINI-MART, EXPRESS FUEL. A one-story retail store containing less than
3,000 square feet gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell
primarily fuel, food, beverages and other household supplies to customers who
purchase only a relatively few items in contrast to a “food store”). A MINI-
MART is different from a “convenience store” in that it may be open 24 hours. A
convenience store may not be open between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. A structure containing separate storage spaces of varying
sizes leased or rented on an individual basis. Storage shall be limited to dead
storage. Dead storage excludes on site retail, manufacturing or service
operation. Dead storage also excludes operations with employees on-site or
operations with material handling on site. A single caretaker’s residence may
be included. No outdoor storage shall be allowed in conjunction with the
facility.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE, CLASS 1. A structure containing separate storage spaces
of varying sizes leased or rented on an individual basis. No outdoor storage
shall be allowed in conjunction with the facility.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE, CLASS 2. A structure containing separate storage spaces
of varying sizes leased or rented on an individual basis. Outdoor storage shall
be allowed in conjunction with the facility.
      MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MODULAR HOME or MODULAR UNIT.
         (a)   A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with the standards set
forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed of components
substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant transported to the building
site for final assembly on a permanent foundation and must contain a numbered
North Carolina State Building Code seal. Blueprints are required to show points
of sections and details for the Building Inspector.
         (b)   A MODULAR HOME must be transported to the site by a conveyance,
(i.e., flatbed trailer or equivalent). MODULAR UNIT(S) must be set in place by
a lifting device (i.e., crane). It cannot be transported or delivered by
attaching a tongue and wheels to a steel frame and “towed”, nor can it have a
tongue and wheels attached to any part of the house.
         (c)   A MODULAR HOME must meet the same engineered foundation
requirements as a site built house (i.e., it must have a permanent poured
concrete footer/footings with load bearing block or brick walls and support
piers). The dwelling must be permanently attached to the foundation according
to North Carolina State Building Code.
         (d)   The roof pitch shall be a minimum of three inches of rise on a
12-inch horizontal run and the gable overhang shall be in accordance with the
North Carolina Building Code, Volume VII, § 40.
         (e)   A MODULAR HOME must meet the same minimum building space
requirements dictated by the area zoning on which it is set or constructed.
Zone Lot Footage (sq. ft.) Minimum Size (sq. ft.) House
Zone Lot Footage (sq. ft.) Minimum Size (sq. ft.) House
AF   20,000                1,200
C    10,000                No residential
HM   15,000                No residential
LI   4500                  No residential
MC   1 acre                1,200
MFR  15,000                780
NB   4,500                 780
O&I  15,000                1,000
OAR  20,000                No residential
R-10 10,000                780
R-15 15,000                1,000
R-20 20,000                1,200
 
         (f)   MODULAR HOMES that do not meet the required definition for
residential areas may be allowed in the mobile home overlay district.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A free-standing and self-supporting single pole structure
that supports telecommunication equipment.
      MOTEL. An establishment providing transient accommodations containing six
or more rooms with at least 25% of all rooms having direct access to the
outside without the necessity of passing through the main lobby of the
building.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
      MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT/MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS. A tract of land under
individual, corporate, firm, partnership or association ownership, or under
common control evidenced by duly recorded contracts or agreements; planned and
developed as an integral unit in a single development operation or in a
definitely programmed series of development operations. Such development shall
consist of two or more duplex buildings, or three or more dwelling units
sharing one or more common walls. The development shall have a unified or
coordinated design of buildings and a coordinated organization of service areas
and common open space area.
      NET TRACT AREA or NET ACREAGE. The residual acreage of a project after
the amount of rights-of-way, open space and public property have been deducted
from the “gross tract area”.
      NIGHT CLUB. An establishment that stays open after 10:00 p.m. on weekends
or on more than an occasional basis that offers food and beverages or
entertainment or amusements. This definition includes, but is not limited to,
establishments that serve beverages to persons aged 21 or older, dance halls,
discotheques and similar establishments. Excluded from this definition are
restaurants that meet both the requirements established by definition in this
chapter and in G.S. § 18B-1000(6), clubs used by non-profit organizations,
lodges used by non-profit organizations, theaters and health and athletic
facilities.
      NON-COMMERCIAL COPY. A sign message through pictures, illustrations,
symbols and/or words, or any combination thereof, which does not contain any
reference to a business or product but displays a substantive message,
statement or expression that is protected by the First Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT. Any lot of record which does not meet the minimum
yard or area requirements established in these regulations at the time of this
chapter’s adoption or any amendment thereto.
      NON-CONFORMING SIGN. A sign that, on the effective date of this chapter
or the date of any subsequent amendment thereto, does not conform to one or
more of the regulations set forth in this chapter.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. Any structure lawfully existing on the
effective date of these regulations, or any amendment to it rendering such
structure non-conforming, which does not comply with all of the standards and
regulations of these regulations or any amendment thereto.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. Any use lawfully being made of any land, building or
structure on the effective date of these regulations or on the effective date
of any amendment thereto rendering such use non-conforming, which does not
comply with all the regulations of these regulations or any amendment thereto,
whichever might be applicable.
      NURSERY. A commercial enterprise conducted on land where flowers, shrubs
and similar horticultural products are raised and sold to general public.
NURSERIES may include the use of greenhouses for growing purposes.
      NURSERY PRODUCTS SALES, RETAIL AND WHOLESALE. A commercial enterprise
where flowers, shrubs and plants are raised for sale on the retail or wholesale
level. Nurseries may use greenhouses for the raising of such entitles.
      NURSING HOME. See REST HOME.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, that exists or is conducted,
sold, offered, maintained or provided at a location other than the premises
where the sign is located.
      OFFICE. A room or group of rooms used for the conduct of a business,
profession, service, industry or government where retail trade is not
conducted.
      OFFICE BUILDING. A building used primarily for conducting the affairs of
a business, profession, service, industry or government, or like activity, that
may include ancillary services for office workers such as a restaurant, coffee
shop, newspaper or candy stand.
      OFFICE PARK. A development on a tract of land containing two or more
office buildings, supporting uses and open space designed, planned and
constructed and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis.
      ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, accommodation, attraction or
other enterprise or activity that exists or is conducted, sold, offered,
maintained or provided on the premises where the sign is located.
      OPEN SPACE. Areas of development that allow for light, air, wildlife
habitat, and for scenic and recreational use. Also included are areas designed
to enhance the privacy or general appearance of a development. PRIVATE OPEN
SPACE is open space that is owned by a corporation, individual or home owner’s
association. PUBLIC OPEN SPACE is open space owned by a governmental
jurisdiction.
      OPEN STORAGE. A unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
      OUTPARCEL. A parcel of land associated with and located within a shopping
center or multi-tenant non-residential development, which is designated on an
approved site plan as a location for a structure with an intended use such as,
but not limited to, banks, savings and loans, dry cleaners, service stations,
vehicle repair garages, offices, restaurants, retail establishments or
combination of uses thereof.
      PACKAGE TREATMENT PLANT. A small self-contained sewage treatment facility
built to serve developed areas which lie beyond the service area of sanitary
sewers.
      PARAPET. The portion of a building wall or false front that extends above
the roof line.
      PARKING BAY. A parking module consisting of one or more sets of one or
two rows of parking spaces and the aisle from which motor vehicles enter and
leave.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area located outside of any street right-
of-way which is designed to accommodate the parking of vehicles which meets all
area requirements contained in this chapter.
      PASSIVE RECREATION. Recreational activities that generally do not require
a developed site. This generally includes such activities as hiking, horseback
riding and picnicking.
      PATIO HOME. A single-family dwelling on a separate lot with open space on
three sides on that lot.
      PAWN SHOP. A shop where money is lent on the security of personal
property pledged. Such property may then later be sold at the shop.
      PERMIT, BUILDING. Written permission issued for the construction, repair,
alteration or addition to a structure.
      PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment where the primary
purpose is providing for the care of physical components of a person or
personal apparel. Examples are: beauty shops; cleaners; and shoe repair shops.
      PHARMACY. A retail store which sells prescription drugs and which may
also sell other items at the retail level. A PHARMACY may have a maximum gross
floor area of 15,000 square feet. Prescription drugs may also be sold in
department stores, variety stores and food stores, but such a store shall not
be deemed to be a PHARMACY.
      PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building primarily used by a non-profit organization
for organized religious services and supporting uses.
      PREMISES. A parcel of real property with a separate and distinct number
or designation shown on a recorded plat, record of survey, parcel map or
subdivision map. When a lot is used together with one or more contiguous lots
for a single use or planned development, all of the lots so used, including any
lots used for off-street parking, shall be considered a single PREMISES for
purposes of these regulations.
      PRODUCE STAND. The sale of any form of agricultural or horticultural
products at a retail stand on the property under the same ownership as the lot
upon which the produce is grown.
      PUBLIC SAFETY STATION. A facility operated by a public agency, a private
contractor thereof or by a private non-profit volunteer organization and used
for the base of operations and/or housing of equipment or personnel for the
provision of dispatched public safety services including law enforcement, fire
protection, rescue services and/or emergency medical services. Such a facility
may contain living quarters for on-duty personnel. It may also contain up to
four holding cells for the temporary custody of persons under arrest.
Facilities for the maintenance of equipment housed at the operation site are
also permitted.
      RACETRACK, OUTDOOR. An outdoor facility where motor vehicles of any size,
model aircraft and similar reduced-scale objects, or animals are raced for
speed and/or endurance at which seating space and accessory food stands may be
provided.
      RACETRACK, INDOOR. An indoor facility where reduced-scale cars or
airplanes are raced. Other entertainment or recreation activities may also be
provided such as video games or pool tables and where food may be provided.
      RECREATION CENTER, INDOOR. Public or private health or exercise clubs,
tennis or racquet ball courts, swimming pools, YMCAs, YWCAs or similar uses
which constitute principal uses and are enclosed in buildings and are operated
on a fee or membership basis primarily for the use of persons who do not reside
on the same lot as that on which the recreational use is located. INDOOR
RECREATION STRUCTURES may include accessory uses, such as snack bars, pro shops
and locker rooms, which are designed and intended primarily for the use of
patrons of the principal recreational use.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITY, OUTDOOR. A tract of land, owned and operated by a
public entity, designated and used by the general public for active and/or
passive recreation, primarily conducted outdoors. An example of such a facility
shall include a public park. The term shall not include the terms “racetrack”,
“outdoor firing range”, “stadiums”, “amphitheaters”, “amusement park”,
“baseball hitting ranges”, “country club” or “golf course”.
      RECREATIONAL USES, ACCESSORY. A recreational facility (e.g., swimming
pool, tennis court) accessory to a principal use such as a hotel, multi-family
development, single-family residence, country club and the like.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicular-type unit without a permanent foundation,
which can be towed, hauled or driven and primarily designed as temporary living
accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use and including, but not
limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers and self-propelled
motor homes. A RECREATION VEHICLE shall not be considered as being a single-
family dwelling.
      RECYCLING STATION. A center located either within or outside a principal
structure at which household goods such as newspapers, glass, aluminum cans or
clothing are deposited. All such deposited goods shall be stored within the
principal building or accessory structure. No outside storage of such goods
shall be allowed.
      RENTAL CENTER, CLASS 1. A commercial establishment whose primary use is
the rental of household items and goods (as distinguished from an establishment
which deals in goods primarily for use by industrial establishments) are
offered for rent (and eventual sale) to the general public. This shall include
the rental of prosthetics and medical supplies. Storage and display of all
items shall be indoors.
      RENTAL CENTER, CLASS 2. A commercial establishment primarily engaged in
the rental of commercial and/or industrial supplies and equipment. Storage of
rental items may be indoors or outdoors.
      RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages and the like and their associated outbuildings such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos and the like and the like and customary
home occupations.
      RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY. Any development where:
         (a)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
         (b)   Where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
      RESIDENCY HOTEL/MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing ten or
more guest rooms for transient or permanent residents. Transients are generally
daily or weekly rentals and permanent are generally weekly or monthly rentals.
Occupancy shall not exceed two people per guest room. Registration facilities,
24-hour on-site management and housekeeping services shall be provided.
Accessory uses may include restaurants, laundry facilities or other services
for occupants. These are often called an APARTMENT HOTEL or SINGLE ROOM
OCCUPANCY HOUSING.
      REST HOME (HOME FOR THE AGED). A licensed facility that provides basic
living needs to seven ore more elderly or disabled in-house residents who need
assistance in meeting their day to day basic needs. Congregate meals are served
on site to residents and 24-hour in-house services are provided. Also called
NURSING HOMES or CONTINUING CARE FACILITIES.
      RESTAURANT. A commercial establishment other than a drive-through or fast
food restaurant where food and drink are prepared, served and consumed
primarily within the principal building.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-THROUGH. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a
ready-to-consume state for consumption on the restaurant premises or off-
premises. Unlike a fast food restaurant, a DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT does not
contain any indoor customer dining areas. Unlike a drive-in restaurant, orders
are taken from customers from centrally located drive-in windows rather than
from individual calling stations.
      RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. An establishment whose principal business is the
sale of prepared or rapidly prepared food directly to the customer in a ready-
to-consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building on the
restaurant premises or off-premises. Orders for food may be placed either
within the restaurant building or from a centrally-located outdoor calling
station.
      RIDING STABLE/ACADEMY. A commercial facility where horses are sheltered
which may also contain grounds for the riding of horses. Horse racing shall not
be allowed to take place on the grounds. Horseback riding lessons may also be
provided.
      ROAD, FRONTAGE. A road which is in close proximity to and parallels a
limited access road and is designed to provide access to roads which abut said
limited access road.
      ROAD, PRIVATE. Any right-of-way having a width of 40 feet or greater used
for purposes of motor vehicle travel which has not been accepted for
maintenance or ownership purposes by a public entity.
      ROAD, PUBLIC. A public right-of-way not less than 30 feet in width set
aside for public travel and either which has been accepted for maintenance by
the state, has been established as a public road prior to the date of adoption
of this chapter, or which has been dedicated to the state for public travel by
the recording of a plat of a subdivision with the county’s Register of Deeds
office.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A single-family dwelling, a portion of which is provided
by the resident owner to no more than four lodgers and where separate bathroom
and kitchen facilities are not provided for any lodger.
      ROOF LINE. The highest point of a flat roof and mansard roof and the
lowest point of a pitched roof, excluding any cupolas, chimneys or other minor
projections.
      RURAL HOME OCCUPATION. A rural home occupation is a non-residential use
conducted in an accessory structure by the owners of the lot upon which it is
located. The principal building is the residence of the owners of the lot.
      SATELLITE DISH. A device incorporating a reflective surface that is
solid, open mesh or bar-configured and is in the shape of a shallow dish, cone,
horn or cornucopia. Such device shall be used to transmit and/or receive radio
or electronic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally based uses. This
definition is meant to include, but not be limited to, what are commonly
referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs and satellite microwave
antennas.
      SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL. A secondary or higher education facility primarily
teaching usable skills that prepares students for jobs in a specific trade or
vocation upon graduation.
      SCHOOLS FOR ARTS AND THE LIKE. A school where classes in the various arts
(e.g., dance, painting, sculpting, singing) are taught. As differentiated from
a “vocational school”, such schools are usually attended by persons of all ages
where professional placement after graduation is not of significant importance.
      SCREENING. A fence, wall, hedge, landscaping, earth berm, buffer area or
any combination of these provided to create a visual and/or physical separation
between certain land uses. SCREENING may be located on the property line or
elsewhere on the site.
      SECOND-HAND SHOP. A retail establishment where clothes, furniture and
other household goods are sold to the general public on a consignment, retail
or not-for-profit basis. A “pawn shop” shall not be considered as being a
SECOND-HAND SHOP.
      SEPTIC TANK DISPOSAL OPERATING SERVICE. A base of operations for a septic
tank cleaning service. Areas designated for the disposal of septic tank waste
shall be deemed a separate principal use.
      SETBACK. A distance measured inward from a property line which shall
remain unoccupied and unobstructed upward, except as may be permitted elsewhere
in this chapter.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The portion of the front yard which shall remain
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as may be permitted
elsewhere in this chapter.
      SETBACK, REAR. The portion of the rear yard which shall remain unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as may be permitted elsewhere
in this chapter.
      SETBACK, SIDE. The portion of the side yard which shall remain unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as may be permitted in this
chapter.
      SETBACK, SIGN. The shortest horizontal distance from the property line or
right-of-way to the nearest point (leading edge) of the sign or its supporting
member whichever is nearest to the property line or right-of-way.
      SEWER, COMMUNITY. See PUBLIC SEWER.
      SEWER, PUBLIC. Any package treatment plant or other sewage treatment
facility serving two or more sources not connected to individual or public
systems and having a design capacity or greater than 3,000 gallons daily and/or
a discharge to surface water, as permitted by the state. In addition, the
definition shall include all connections to such a system.
      SHOPPING CENTER. A group of two or more retail establishments constructed
and developed in one or more phases with customer and employee parking and
merchandise and other loading facilities provided on-site. A SHOPPING CENTER
may be located and developed on one or more lots and may include one or more
principal buildings.
      SHRUB. An ornamental plant that is at least two feet tall above the
highest root at the time of planting.
      SHRUB, LARGE. An ornamental plant that is at least two feet tall above
the highest root at the time of planting which can be expected to grow to a
height of five to six feet within a three-year period after planting. If LARGE
SHRUBS are to be planted as part of a required screen, such shrubs will be
limited to the following varieties:
         (a)   Nelly R. Stevens Holly;
         (b)   Burford Holly;
         (c)   Wax Myrtle;
         (d)   East Palatka Holly;
         (e)   Savannah Holly;
         (f)   Tea Olives;
         (g)   Eleagnus;
         (h)   Ligustrums;
         (i)   Japanese Black Pines;
         (j)   Junipers; and
         (k)   Any other variety of shrub, approved by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, which has the capacity to provide an equivalent amount of growth and
opacity.
      SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE. The triangular area formed by a diagonal line
connecting two points located on intersecting property lines (or a property
line and the curb or a driveway), each point being 15 and 75 feet from the
point of intersection as shown on the following figures for a four-way
intersection and a tee intersection. See §
155.105 of this chapter.
      SIGN. Any object, display or structure, or part thereof, situated
outdoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display, direct or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product,
service, event or location by any means, including words, letters, figures,
design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images. The term
SIGN does not include the flag or emblem of any nation, organization of
nations, state, political subdivision thereof, or any fraternal, religious or
civic organization; works of art which in no way identify a product or
business; scoreboards located on athletic fields; or religious symbols.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign, other than a directional sign which directs
attention to or communicates information about a business, commodity, service
or event that exists or is conducted, sold, offered, maintained or provided at
a location other than the premises where the sign is located. Any ADVERTISING
SIGN allowed under this chapter may display either a commercial or non-
commercial copy.
      SIGN AREA. The entire face of a sign including the advertising surface
and any framing, trim or molding, but not including the supporting structure.
In computing AREA, only one side of a double- faced sign shall be considered.
      SIGN, CAMPAIGN OR ELECTION. A sign that advertises a candidate or issue
to be voted upon on a definite election day.
      SIGN, CANOPY AND AWNING. A sign attached to or painted or printed onto a
canopy or awning. For the purposes of this chapter, the permitted size of a
CANOPY OR AWNING SIGN will be calculated on the basis of the size of the
building wall to which the canopy is attached. It will, for measuring purposes,
be considered a wall sign.
      SIGN CONSTRUCTION. A sign placed at a construction site identifying or
announcing the project or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor,
financier or others involved in the development of the project.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign fronting on a road containing only the name of
the principal use, directional arrow and mileage to the principal use. Such
principal use shall not be visible to the motorist at the location at which the
sign is placed.
      SIGN, DIRECTORY. A sign on which the names and locations of occupants or
the use of a building or property is identified.
      SIGN, FLASHING. A sign that uses an intermittent or flashing light source
or windblown and/or mechanical moved reflective material to attract attention.
      SIGN, FREE-STANDING. Any sign that is not affixed to a building and is
securely and permanently mounted in the ground. Such sign may include a ground,
pole or monument sign.
      SIGN, GOVERNMENT. Any sign which extends from the ground or which has
supports which place the bottom thereof less than three and one-half feet from
the ground directly beneath the sign.
      SIGN, GROUND. Any sign which extends from the ground or which has
supports which places the bottom thereof less than three and one-half feet from
the ground directly beneath the sign.
      SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which displays only the name, address and/or
crest, or insignia, trademark, occupation or professional of an occupant or the
name of any building on the premises.
      SIGN, ILLUMINATED. A sign either internally or externally illuminated.
      SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign used in conjunction with equipment or other
functional elements for a use or operation. These shall include, but not be
limited to, drive-through window menu boards, and signs on automatic teller
machines, gas pumps, vending machines or newspaper delivery boxes.
      SIGN, INSTRUCTIONAL. An on-premises sign designed to guide vehicular and/
or pedestrian traffic by using such words as “Entrance”, “Exit”, “Parking”,
“One-Way” or similar directional instruction, but not including any advertising
message. The name or logo of the business or use to which the sign is giving
direction may also be included on the sign.
      SIGN, LIGHTED. A sign illuminated only by light cast upon the sign from
an external light source.
      SIGN, LUMINOUS. A sign lighted by or exposed to artificial lighting
either by lights on or in the sign.
      SIGN, MONUMENT. A non-metallic sign in which the bottom of the sign is
flush with the ground and the vertical dimension is greater than the horizontal
dimension.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
commodity, that exists or is conducted, sold, offered, than the premises where
the sign is located.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign that draws attention to or communicates
information about a business, service, commodity, that exists or is conducted,
sold, offered, maintained or provided on the premises where the sign is
located.
      SIGN, POLE. A detached sign erected and maintained on a free-standing
frame, mast or pole and not attached to any building, but not including ground-
mounted or monument signs. The bottom of such sign shall be greater than three
and one-half feet from the ground directly beneath the sign.
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A- or T-frames; or umbrellas used for advertising.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign other than a wall, awning, canopy or marquee
sign, which is affixed to a building and is supported only by the wall on which
the sign is mounted.
      SIGN, PUBLIC INTEREST. A sign on private property that displays
information pertinent to the safety or legal responsibilities of the general
public such as “Warning” and “No Trespassing” signs.
      SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign that is used to offer for sale, lease or rent
the premises upon which such sign is placed.
      SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected or maintained in whole or in part upon or over
the roof or parapet of a building.
      SIGN, VEHICULAR. Signs on parked vehicles visible from the public right-
of-way where the primary purpose of the vehicle is to advertise a product or to
direct people to a business or activity located on the same or nearby property,
and said vehicles are not used in the normal day to day operations of said
business. For the purposes of this chapter, VEHICULAR SIGNS shall not include
business logos, identification or advertising on vehicles primarily used for
other transportation purposes.
      STEALTH TOWER. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples, light poles
and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage or conceal
the presence of antennas or towers. Typically, the telecommunications equipment
is incorporated into the supporting structure and assumes the color, texture
and appearance of the supporting structure.
      STORAGE, OPEN-AIR. The storage of goods, bulk materials or discarded
items in the open or under a structure containing a roof, but no walls.
      STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which affords the principal means or access to abutting properties.
      STREET PROPERTY LINE. The line which separates a lot or parcel of land
from a street right-of-way created by dedication resulting from the recording
of the lot.
      STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land occupied or intended to be occupied
by a public street, for such purpose, areas claimed by a municipality or the
state for such purposes, or actually used for such purposes.
      STRUCTURE. A combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy or ornamentation whether installed on, above or below the surface of
land or water. Any thing constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground or which is attached to something
having a more or less permanent location on the ground.
      STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A structure separate and subordinate to the
principal structure on the same lot as the principal structure used for
purposes customarily incidental to the principal structure. An ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE may also be referred to an ACCESSORY BUILDING.
      STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. A structure containing the principal use which
takes place on the lot. A PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE may also be referred to as a
PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT BUILDING. The buildings in which the
electronic receiving and relay equipment for a telecommunication facility is
housed.
      TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER AND FACILITIES. A telecommunications facility
consists of the equipment and structure(s) (including any accessory structures
required to house transmitting or maintenance equipment) designed to support
antennas used for transmitting or receiving communications and data
transmissions. Towers, antennas or similar structures installed in or attached
to tops of buildings, water tanks or similar facilities as “stealth” locations,
shall be included in this definition. This definition also includes accessory
buildings and related equipment required for the telecommunications facility.
This definition does not include ham radio operations, radio broadcast towers
or television broadcast towers. Examples of TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS include
monopoles and lattice construction steel structures.
      TOTAL CARE FACILITY. See CONTINUING CARE FACILITY.
      TOWNHOUSE. A one-family dwelling in a row of at least three such units in
which each unit has its own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is
located over another unit and each unit is separated from any other unit by one
or more vertical common fire-resistant walls. TOWNHOUSES are single-family
attached dwellings which usually have separate utilities. This chapter does not
differentiate between various forms of ownership; thus, TOWNHOUSES are
considered the same as DWELLINGS, MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT.
      TREE, LARGE MATURING. A tree, either single or multi-stemmed (i.e., in
clump form) which has a height of at least eight feet and is of a species
which, at maturity, can be expected to reach a height of more than 35 feet
under normal growing conditions in the local climate. If the tree is single-
stemmed, it shall have a caliper of at least two and one-half inches at the
time of planting measured six inches up from the highest root of the tree.
      TREE, SMALL MATURING. A tree, either single or multi-stemmed (i.e., in
clump form) which has a height of at least eight feet and is of a species which
at maturity, can be expected to reach a height less than 35 feet under normal
growing conditions in the local climate. If the tree is single-stemmed, it
shall have a caliper at the time of planting of at least two and one-half
inches measured six inches up from the highest root of the tree.
      TRUCK STOP.
         (a)   A facility typically offering multiple services to the traveling
public which are particularly designed to serve the need of freight trucks and
their drivers. Such facilities typically include fuel stations (dispensing fuel
for trucks and, perhaps, for automobiles), one or more eating establishments
and/or sale of prepared food, sales of convenience and sundry items, and
overnight lodging facilities. Not all such facilities are provided at all TRUCK
STOPS.
         (b)   The foregoing definition distinguishes a TRUCK STOP from:
            1.   A convenience store;
            2.   Mini-mart, express fuel;
            3.   Shopping center; and
            4.   Planned multi-tenant development.
      TRUCK TERMINAL. A facility where cargo is stored and where trucks load
and unload cargo on a regular basis.
      VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL. A truck of any type used or maintained primarily to
transport material or to operate a power attachment or tool. Any vehicle with
advertising or business designation affixed to it shall be considered a
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE, except for passenger vehicles having such affixations.
      VEHICLE, INOPERABLE. A vehicle that for a period of more than 72 hours
has been in a state of disrepair and is incapable of being moved under its own
power.
      VEHICLE, PASSENGER. An automobile, van or pick-up truck used exclusively
as a PASSENGER VEHICLE and/or for hauling property of the owner. Pick-up trucks
may qualify as PASSENGER VEHICLES only when used exclusively as PASSENGER
VEHICLES or for hauling property of the owner and not equipped as a camper or a
commercial vehicle.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary or predominant use of any lot.
      WALL, BUILDING. The entire surface area, including windows and doors, of
an exterior wall of a building. For the purposes of this chapter, the area of a
wall will be calculated for a maximum of 50 feet in height of a building.
      WALL SIGN. Any sign directly attached to an exterior wall of a building
or dependent upon a building for its support with its exposed face parallel or
approximately parallel to the plane of the building or structure on which the
sign is affixed. Signs directly painted on walls shall be considered WALL
SIGNS.
      WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings for the storage of goods or
wares belonging either to the owner of the facility or to one or more lessees
of space in the facility or both, with access to contents only through
management personnel.
      WATER, PUBLIC. Any water system defined as such by the state’s Division
of Health Services, which complies with the regulations of the state’s Division
of Health Services.
      WHOLESALE SALES OPERATION.
         (a)   A place of business primarily engaged in selling merchandise to
retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business
users, or to other wholesalers. The majority of all sales of such businesses
shall be for resale purposes. The Zoning Enforcement Officer may require proof
of this through sales tax reports.
         (b)   Wholesale clubs and similar membership warehouses, where
membership is easily available to the consuming public, and similar businesses
shall not be deemed WHOLESALE SALES OPERATIONS.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal building, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward.
      YARD, FRONT. An area measured between the edge of the public street
right-of-way line, and the front of a building, projected to the side lot
lines. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be measured perpendicular from the
street lot line having the shortest linear footage. If both street lot lines
have equal linear footage, the property owner shall determine the location of
the FRONT YARD where no principal structure is located. If a principal
structure is located on such a lot, the FRONT YARD shall be based on the
architectural orientation of the house.
      YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space extending the full width of the lot
and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the building
projected to the side lines of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard
between the principal building and the side lot line as measured perpendicular
from the side lot line to the closest point of the principal building.
      YARD SALE.
         (a)   An outdoor sale of merchandise conducted entirely upon a
residentially or institutionally developed lot by one or more households or
civic groups where goods sold are limited primarily to used merchandise donated
by the yard sale participants.
         (b)   YARD SALES shall also be in compliance with §
155.074 of this chapter.
      ZERO LOT LINE. A development in which one or more detached or attached
dwelling units abut at least one property line (the unit has a zero-foot side
setback). This definition does not include townhouses.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2.2; Ord. passed 12-14-1999)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.020 INTRODUCTION.
   In order to achieve the purpose of this chapter, the following zoning
districts are hereby established. In addition to the primary uses which are
permitted by right or through the issuance of a conditional use permit, other
uses including accessory uses, off-street parking and signs are permitted as
listed in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 3.1)
§ 155.021 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   General zoning districts are designated throughout the zoning
jurisdiction and include numerous uses which are allowed by right subject to
those uses meeting yard and height regulations.
   (B)   In addition, each zone allows for conditional uses which may be
developed once a conditional use permit has been issued by the Town Council.
The following zoning districts are hereby established.
      (1)   R-A Residential Agricultural District. This district is established
to encourage the continuance of low-density residential uses, as well as
recreational opportunities. The R-A District has access to public water and
sewer.
      (2)   R-20 Residential District.
         (a)   This district is established to provide areas for low- to
medium-density residential purposes. This district has access to public water
and sewer.
         (b)   Residential uses permitted in this zoning district are single-
family dwellings, duplexes and isolated manufactured homes. In addition, a
limited number of non-residential uses are allowed in this district which are
not permitted in other residential districts contained in this chapter. Some of
these uses, which could potentially have a substantial effect upon adjoining
properties, are subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Town
Council.
      (3)   R-10 Residential District.
         (a)   The R-10 Residential District is established primarily as a
medium-density residential district for the location of single-family dwellings
along with their customary accessory uses so as to establish areas where
development patterns can be somewhat more dense. It is expected that all
dwellings will have access to public water and sewer facilities.
         (b)   In addition to single-family dwelling units, a limited number of
home occupations and public and private community uses are permitted in this
district. Some non-residential uses require the issuance of a conditional use
permit by the Town Council.
      (4)   C-B Central Business District.
         (a)   This district is established as the centrally located trade and
commercial service area of the town. The regulations of this district are
designed to encourage the continued use of land for community trade and
commercial service uses and to permit a concentrated development of permitted
uses while maintaining a substantial relationship between the intensity of land
uses and the capacity of utilities and streets.
         (b)   This district encourages the use of residential-commercial mixed
uses in one building, such as residential units on the upper floors and
commercial uses on the street level. Mixed uses encourage the pedestrian
orientation of C-B areas and help ensure a lively and vibrant downtown. This
district has access to public water and sewer.
      (5)   G-B General Business District. The purpose of this district is to
provide a wide array of primarily retail and personal service uses to a large
trading area for persons residing in and/or traveling through the town’s area.
Such uses shall be located and designed in such a manner so as to promote
aesthetics, the safe and efficient movement of traffic, and to not unduly
burden adjoining thoroughfares. Given the large traffic volumes generated by
uses located in such a district, any area so zoned shall have access onto an
arterial or collector highway. G-B zoned areas have access to public water and
sewer.
      (6)   M-1 Light Industrial District. This district is designed primarily
for general industrial and warehousing operations, which can be operated in a
relatively clean and quite manner and which will not be obnoxious to adjacent
residential and business districts. including manufacturing, processing and
assembling of goods, product distribution facilities and a broad variety of
specialized commercial and industrial operations. The large majority of
industrial uses are allowed by right. Public water and sewer is provided to
areas zoned M-1.
      (7)   M-2 Heavy Industrial District. The M-2 Zoning District is designed
to accommodate all but the most obnoxious industries. However, it is expected
that industries permitted here by right will minimize their emission of smoke,
dust, fumes, flare, noise and vibrations. Public water and sewer service is
provided to areas zoned M-2.
(Ord. passed - -, § 3.2)
§ 155.022 TABLE OF USES.
   (A)   The list of uses allowed in each zoning district is indicated below.
Uses are listed in alphabetical order and many of the uses have definitions
found in §
155.007 of this chapter.
   (B)   For any use listed below, the Zoning Administrator shall be able to
determine if the use is:
      (1)   Permitted;
      (2)   Permitted subject to the adherence of certain identified
specifications;
      (3)   Permitted subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit; or
      (4)   Not permitted.
   (C)   Uses are permitted in certain zoning districts in the table below
depending on whether there is an “X”, “XS”, “C”, “CS” is shown in the fourth
through tenth columns, next to the use described in the first column.
      (1)   “X”. A use shall be permitted in a certain zoning district if it is
accordingly designated in the table below with a “X”. For instance, single-
family dwellings are permitted uses in the R-20 District.
      (2)   “XS”. A use permitted subject to certain pre-established
specifications which would not be applicable to other uses is designated by a
“XS”. For instance, customary home occupations are subject to the supplemental
regulations found in §
155.023 of this chapter.
      (3)   “C”. A use that is subject to the issuance of a conditional use
permit is indicated by a “C”. For instance, a community center in the R-20
District would be a conditional use and would require the issuance of a
conditional use permit by the Town Council.
      (4)   “CS”. If additional findings of fact, or other supplemental
requirements, pertain to a certain conditional use, this would be indicated by
a “CS”. Such is the case of a convenience store in the C-B Zoning District.
Supplemental regulations are found in §
155.023 of this chapter.
   (D)   If a use does not have a “X”, “XS”, “C” or “CS” designation in a
particular zoning district, that use shall not be allowed in that zoning
district.
   (E)   In addition to the listings of uses within the various zoning
districts, the table below shows the parking requirement listing for each use
in the third column. The numbers referenced in the third column refer to a
“group number” for specific parking requirements found in §§
155.120 through
155.131 of this chapter. In many cases, parking requirements are the same for
more than one use. For example, a reference to “2.9" would refer the reader to
§
155.129 of this chapter, Group Number 2.9, which requires one parking space for
each 250 square feet of gross floor area.
   (F)   Yard, bulk, height and screening requirements are found in §
155.024 of this chapter. In general, these requirements shall pertain to all
uses. However, if different requirements for a particular use are found in the
supplemental regulations (most supplemental regulations are found in §
155.023 of this chapter), the stricter requirement shall prevail.
Use Supplemental Regulations Parking Requirement R-A R-20 R-10 C-B G-B M-1 M-2
                             Group
                                                                  Supplemental Parking         R-  R-              M-
Use                                                               Regulations  Requirement R-A 20  10  C-B G-B M-1 2
                                                                               Group
ABC store                                                                      2.22                    X   X
                                                                  155.023(RR),
Adult establishment                                               155.057,     4.2.44.10                           CS
                                                                  155.076
                                                                  155.023(RR), 4.2.44.10,
Adult hotel or motel                                              155.057,     2.71                                CS
                                                                  155.076
                                                                  155.023(RR), 4.2.44.10,
Adult video store                                                 155.057,     2.31                                CS
                                                                  155.076
Amusement arcade                                                               2.22                    X   X
Amusement facility/fun park                                       155.023(SS)  3.13                        CS  XS
Animal boarding services                                          155.023(A)   2.22        CS          CS  CS
Animal grooming facility/services                                 155.023(TT)  2.22        CS          CS  CS
Animal hospital (with outdoor kennel)                             155.023(A)   2.22        CS              CS  CS
Animal hospital (indoor only)                                                  2.22                    C   C
Animal kennel                                                     155.023(A)   2.5         CS
Animal shelter                                                    155.023(A)   2.48        CS                  XS  XS
Animal supply store                                                            2.14                    X   X
Antique store                                                                  2.22                    X   X
Appliance repair shop, household                                  155.023(UU)  2.27                    XS  XS
Appliances (household) store                                                   2.49                    X   X
Art gallery                                                                    3.13                    X   X
Art supply store                                                               2.22                    X   X
Auction house                                                     155.023      3.13                        CS  XS
Auditorium, stadiums, assembly halls, amphitheaters and the like               2.16                        C   X   X
Automobile body shop                                              155.023(VV)  2.10                            XS  XS
Automobile broker
Automobile detailing shop                                         155.023(WW)  2.10                        XS  XS  XS
Automobile repair shop                                            155.023(VV)  2.10                        XS  XS  XS
Automobile rental company                                         155.023      2.10                        XS  XS  XS
Auto, truck, boat, motorcycle sales                               155.023(OOO) 2.25                        XS  XS  XS
Automobile parking lot (principal use)                            155.120      0.1                     XS  XS  XS  XS
Automobile service station                                        155.023(C)   2.26                    XS  XS      XS
Automotive supply store                                                        2.22                    X   X
Automobile towing and wrecking service                            155.023      2.43                            CS  CS
Automobile wash, Class 1                                          155.023(YY)  2.36                        CS  XS  XS
Automobile wash, Class 2                                          155.023(ZZ)  2.36                        CS  XS  XS
Bakery (retail)                                                                2.22                    X   X
Bakery (wholesale)                                                155.023(SSS) 2.49                        XS  XS  XS
Banks, savings and loan, credit unions                            155.023      2.18                    XS  XS
Bank teller machine                                                            2.18                    X   X
Barber shop                                                                    2.28                    X   X
Beauty shop                                                                    2.28                    X   X
Beauty supply store                                                            2.22                    X   X
Bed and breakfast inn                                             155.023(PP)  2.1         CS  CS  CS  XS  XS
Bicycle sales/service                                                          2.22                    X   X
Billiard parlor                                                                2.22                        X
Blueprint and drafting service                                                 2.9                     X   X
Boat and trailer works/sales                                                   2.25                        X   X   X
Book store                                                                     2.22                    X   X
Bottling works                                                                 2.48                            X   X
Bowling lanes                                                                  2.32                        X   X
Building and home materials center                                155.023(B)   2.23                        XS  XS
Building material and lumber storage and sales                    155.023(B)   2.27                        XS  XS  XS
Bus terminal                                                                   2.7                     C   C
Cabinet and woodwork shops                                        155.023(SSS) 2.43                        XS  XS  XS
Camera and photography supply store                                            2.22                    X   X
Camping and recreational vehicle park                             155.023(AAA) 2.13                        CS  CS  CS
Carnivals, circus                                                              3.13                            C   C
Carpet store (see “floor covering store”)
Catalogue sales store                                                          2.22                    X   X
Cemetery (accessory use)                                          155.023(D)               XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Cemetery (principal use)                                          155.023(D)   3.5         XS  CS  CS
China and tableware shop                                                       2.22                    X   X
Churches, places of worship                                       155.023(BBB) 3.2         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Cleaning and maintenance service, building                                     2.65                    X   X   X
Clock shop                                                                     2.22                    X   X
Clothing, footwear and apparel store                                           2.22                    X   X
College/university                                                             3.9         C   C       C   C
Commercial vehicle storage and operations center                  155.023(TTT) 2.7                             CS  CS
Community centers                                                 155.023(CCC) 2.16        CS  CS  CS  XS/ XS/
                                                                                                       CS  CS
Computer and data processing service                                           2.15                    X   X
Condominium (see “dwelling, multi-family”)
Continuing care facilities                                        155.023(PPP) 1.5         CS      CS      XS
Contractors offices and storage yard                              155.023(G)   2.65                        XS  XS  XS
Convalescent homes (see “rest homes”)
Convenience stores                                                155.023(DDD) 2.8                     CS  CS  XS  CS
Copying service (see “photocopying service”)
Correctional facility                                             155.023(H)   3.6                                 CS
Country club                                                      155.023(R)   3.7         CS  CS  CS
Craft studio                                                                   3.13                    X   X
Customary home occupation                                         155.023(J)   1.6         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Dairy bars, ice cream stores and ice cream manufacturing for on-  155.023      2.23                    XS  XS
premises retail sales only
Day care center                                                   155.023(FFF) 2.3         CS  CS          CS
Day care center associated with church or school                  155.023(E)   2.3         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Day care home, family                                             155.023(EEE) 2.4         CS  CS  CS
Department store                                                               2.22                    X   X
Distribution center, product                                                   2.48                                C
Doctors' office (excluding animal hospital)                                    2.35                    X   X
Drug store (see "pharmacy")
Dry cleaning and/or laundry plant                                 155.023(GG)  2.37                        CS  XS  XS
Dry cleaning service outlet                                       155.023(GGG) 2.22                    XS  XS
Duplex (see “dwelling, two-family”)
                                                                  155.075,
Dwelling, modular home                                            155.077,     1.1         XS  XS  XS
                                                                  155.078
                                                                  155.023(KK),                     XS/ XS/
Dwelling, multi-family, multi-family development                  155.077,     1.3                 CS  CS
                                                                  155.078
Dwelling, single-family                                           155.077,     1.1         XS  XS  XS
                                                                  155.078
Dwelling, triplex                                                 255.077,     1.3                 CS
                                                                  155.078
                                                                  155.023(OO),
Dwelling, two-family (duplex)                                     155.077,     1.1         XS  XS  XS
                                                                  155.078
Dwelling, patio homes                                             155.077,     1.1         XS  XS  XS
                                                                  155.078
Dwelling, planned residential                                     155.080      1.1         CS  CS  CS
                                                                  155.023(KK),
Dwelling, townhouses, condominiums                                155.077,     1.3         XS  XS  XS
                                                                  155.078
                                                                  155.023(KK),
Dwelling, quadruplex                                              155.077,     1.3                 CS
                                                                  155.078
Electric, heating, air conditioning, ventilating, plumbing        155.023(K)   2.65                        CS  XS  XS
supplies and equipment sales
Employment agency                                                              2.15                    X   X
Essential utility services, Class 1 and Class 2                   155.023(L)   0.1         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Essential utility services, Class 3                               155.023(M)   0.1                         CS  CS  CS
Essential service operation center                                             2.43                        X   X   X
Exterminators office                                              155.023(FF)  2.65                        CS  XS  XS
Fabric and/or notions store                                                    2.22                    X   X
Fairgrounds                                                       155.023(SS)  3.13                                CS
Family care home                                                  155.023(AA)  1.9         XS  XS  XS  XS
Farm equipment sales and service                                  155.023(HHH) 2.25                        CS  XS  XS
Farm supply store                                                              2.14                        X   X   X
Farmers' market                                                                2.44                    C   C   C   C
Finance companies                                                 155.023      2.19                    XS  XS
Financial institution                                             155.023      2.18                    XS  XS
Fitness center (see “health club”)
Flea market                                                                    3.13                        C   C   C
Flex space (see §155.007)                                                     2.5 and                         X   X
                                                                               2.43
Floor covering store                                                           2.27                    X   X
Floral and Christmas items store                                               2.22                    X   X
Florist, retail                                                                2.22                    X   X
Florist, wholesale                                                             2.49                        X   X
Flour and feed mills (see “manufactured goods, Class 2”)
Food catering facility                                                         2.48                    X   X   X
Food store                                                                     2.22                    X   X
Formal wear and rental store                                                   2.22                    X   X
Fortune teller                                                                 2.31                        C   X
Fraternal and service organization meeting facilities (e.g.,
union hall, Boy Scout hut, VFW, Elks Lodge, American Legion hut,  155.023(N)   2.64        CS  CS      XS  XS
Masonic lodge), non-profit and not-for-profit
Funeral homes and mortuaries                                                   2.2                         X   X
Furniture store                                                                2.49                    X   X
Furriers                                                                       2.22                    X   X
Game room/video arcade                                            155.023(JJJ) 2.22                    XS  XS
Garden supply and seed store                                                   2.58                    X   X   X
Gift shop                                                                      2.22                    X   X
Glass and mirror shop                                                          2.22                    X   X   X
Glass contractor, building                                                     2.27                        X   X   X
Golf course (except miniature and driving range)                               3.16
Golf course (miniature)                                           155.023(KKK) 3.17                        XS  XS
Golf course (driving range)                                       155.023(KKK) 3.17        CS  CS              XS
Greenhouses as accessory residential use                          155.023(HH)  0.1         XS  XS  XS
Grocery store (see “food store”)
Group care facility                                               155.023      1.9         XS  XS  XS  XS
Gun and ammunition sales shop                                                  2.22                    X   X
Gunsmith                                                                       2.22                    X   X
Hardware store                                                    155.023      2.22                    xs  xs  xs
Health club, spa and gymnasiums (principal use)                                2.59                    X   X   X
Heating and air conditioning supplies and sales (see “electric,
heating, air conditioning, ventilating")
Hobby, toy and craft shop                                                      2.22                    X   X
Home center                                                       155.023      2.22                        XS  XS
Home decorating center                                                         2.22                        X   X
Home electronics, radio and television, VCR sales                              2.49                    X   X
Home occupation, customary (see "customary home occupation")
Home occupation, rural (see "rural home occupation")
Hospital                                                                       2.21        C   C           X
Hotel (see "motel")
Ice and cold storage plants and freezer lockers                                2.27                            X   X
Independent living center                                                      1.3         C   C       X
Industrial equipment sales, supplies and repair                   155.023(W)   2.49                            XS  XS
Insurance agency                                                               2.15                    X   X
Interior decorating                                                            2.22                    X   X
Jewelry and jewelry repair store                                               2.22                    X   X
Junkyard and automobile salvage yard                              155.023(LLL) 2.43                                CS
Key shop                                                                       2.22                    X   X
Laboratories - dental, medical, optical and research              155.023(FF)  2.61                        CS  CS  CS
Laundromat                                                                     2.38                        C   X
Laundromat plant (see “dry cleaning and laundry plants”)
Lawn and garden care service                                                   2.65                        X   X
Library, public                                                                3.12        C   C   C   X   X
Life care facility (see “continuing care facility”)
Locksmith                                                                      2.22                    X   X   X
Lounge (principal use)                                            155.023(MMM) 2.23                    XS  XS
Luggage and leather goods shop                                                 2.22                    X   X
Lumber sales (see "building material and lumber sales")
Lumber and saw mills                                                           2.42                                C
Machine shop                                                      155.023      2.43                            CS  XS
Magazine, newspaper store                                                      2.22                    X   X
Manufactured goods, Class 1                                       155.023(SSS) 4.1                             X   X
                                                                  155.023
Manufactured goods, Class 2                                       (VVV),       4.1                                 CS
                                                                  155.175
Manufactured home and recreational vehicle sales                               2.25                                C
Manufactured homes, Class a                                       155.075      1.1         XS  XS
Meat packing plants (see “manufactured goods, Class 2”)
Medical center                                                                 2.22                    X   X
Medical supply shop                                                            2.22                    X   X
Mini-marts, express fuel (see “convenience store”)
Mini-warehouse, Class 1                                           155.023(NNN) 2.41                            XS  XS
Mini-warehouse, class 2                                           155.023(NNN) 2.41                                XS
                                                                  155.175, see See
                                                                  individual   individual
                                                                  listings for listings
Mixed use developments (residential and retail)                   particular   for                     CS
                                                                  uses         particular
                                                                  involved     uses
                                                                               involved
Monument sales                                                    155.023(BB)  2.63                        XS  XS
Motels                                                            155.023(V)   2.71                        XS  XS
Motorcycle, lawnmower, power, saw sales and service               155.023(OOO) 2.25                        XS  XS
Moving and storage facilities                                                  2.65                            X   X
Museum                                                                         3.14                    X   X
Music store sales and service                                                  2.22                    X   X
Newspaper offices                                                                                      X   X
Newsstand                                                                      2.22                    X   X
Novelty and souvenir stores                                                    2.22                    X   X
Nursery (horticultural), greenhouses                                           2.53                        C   X   X
Nursing home (see "rest homes")
Office equipment and computer store                                            2.53                    X   X
Office parks                                                                   2.56                    X   X
Offices, public and private                                                    2.15                    X   X
Optician and optical supply store                                              2.22                    X   X
Paint and wallpaper store                                                      2.22                    X   X
Parking lot - principal use (see “automobile parking lot”)
Pawn shop                                                                      2.22                            C   C
Pet shop                                                          155.023(CC)  2.22                    XS  XS
Petroleum bulk sales and storage                                  155.023(X)   2.42                                CS
Pharmacy                                                                       2.22                    X   X
Philanthropic and eleemosynary institutions                                    2.51                    X   X
Photocopying service                                                           2.9                     X   X
Photofinish laboratory                                                         2.15                            X   X
Photographic studio                                                            2.28                    X   X
Plumbing, sales and supplies (see “electric, heating, air
conditioning supplies and sales”)
Pool hall (see “billiard parlor”)
Post office                                                                    3.11                    X   X
Printing, publishing and reproducing establishments                            2.22                        C   X   X
Private residential quarters                                      155.023(JJ)  1.2         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Produce stand                                                     155.023(P)   2.12        XS  XS
Public safety station (police, fire, rescue)                      155.023(Q)   2.48        XS  XS  XS  X   X   X   X
Quarries                                                                       2.7                                 C
Racetrack, indoor                                                              3.14 or                         X   X
                                                                               2.22
Racetrack, outdoor                                                155.023(III) 3.13                                CS
Radio, television, VCR repair service                                          4.2                     X   X
Radio, television stations                                        155.023      3.1                             XS  XS
Real estate agency                                                             2.15                    X   X
Recreation equipment sales, display lots                          155.023      2.25                            XS  XS
Recreation centers and sports centers, indoor, public, private or              2.59        X           X   X
non-profit (e.g., Ymca, Boys Club and the like)
Recreation facilities, outdoor, public or private (parks,                                  XS/ XS/ XS/ XS/ XS/
playgrounds, swimming pools, swim clubs, clubs, lodges and the    155.023(R)   3.4         CS  CS  CS  CS  CS
like, excluding firing ranges, both indoor and outdoor)
Recreational uses, accessory                                      155.023(S)   3.4         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
Recycling station                                                 155.023(I)   3.1                             XS  XS
Rental center, Class 1                                                         2.49                    X   X   X
Rental center, Class 2                                            155.023(UUU) 2.49                            XS  XS
Rest home (home for aged)                                         155.023(O),  2.2         CS  CS  CS  XS
                                                                  (PPP)
Restaurant                                                                     2.23                    X   X
Restaurant, drive-in                                              155.023(T)   2.24                        XS/ XS/
                                                                                                           CS  CS
Restaurant, drive-through                                         155.023(T)   2.66                        XS/ XS/
                                                                                                           CS  CS
Restaurant, fast food                                             155.023(T)   2.23                        XS/ XS/
                                                                                                           CS  CS
Restaurants, within other facilities                              155.023(U)   2.23                    XS  XS  XS  XS
Riding stable/academy                                             155.023(F)   2.17, 2.42  CS
Roof repair and installation and sheet metal                      155.023(Y)   2.65                            XS  XS
Rooming and boarding houses                                       155.023(II)  1.7         XS  XS
Rural home occupations                                            155.023(EE)  1.6         XS  XS  XS  XS
School, home (see “customary home occupation”)
School, vocational                                                             3.9                     X   X   X
Schools, nursery, kindergarten                                    155.023(Z)   3.1         CS  CS
Schools, elementary and junior high (public and private)          155.023(Z)   3.1         XS  XS  XS
Schools, senior high (public and private)                         155.023(Z)   3.3         XS  XS  XS
School for the arts                                                            2.17                    X   X
Second-hand, swap and consignment stores                                       2.22                        C   X
Service station (see “automobile service station”)
Sewing, cloth and notions store (see "fabric and/or notions
store")
Shoe repair shop                                                               2.22                    X   X
Shoe store                                                                     2.22                    X   X
                                                                  155.023
Shopping center up to 25,000 square feet                          (QQQ),       2.67                    XS  XS
                                                                  155.175
                                                                  155.023
Shopping center 25,000 - 60,000 square feet                       (QQQ),       2.67                    CS  XS
                                                                  155.175
                                                                  155.023
Shopping center, 60,000 - 150,000 square feet                     (QQQ),       2.67                        XS
                                                                  155.175
                                                                  155.023
Shopping center, over 150,000 square feet                         (QQQ),       2.5                         CS
                                                                  155.175
Shooting range, indoor                                            155.023(QQ)  2.4                             XS  XS
Sign painting shop                                                155.023(SSS) 2.65                            CS  XS
Skating rink (indoor)                                                          2.72                        X   X
Sporting goods and sporting apparel shop                                       2.22                    X   X
Stadiums                                                          155.023(RRR) 2.16        XS/ XS/
                                                                                           CS  CS
Stationery store                                                               2.22                    X   X
Street vendors                                                    155.023(WWW) 2.44            CS      CS  CS
Swimming pool sales, service and supplies                                      2.49                    X   X   X
Tailor and alteration store                                                    2.22                    X   X
Tanning salon (principal use)                                                  2.73                    X   X
Tax preparation service                                                        2.19                    X   X
Telecommunications antennae and equipment buildings on existing   155.023(LL), 0.1         XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS  XS
towers                                                            (MM), (NN)
Telecommunications towers and facilities                          155.023(LL), 0.1         CS  CS  CS  CS  CS  CS  XS
                                                                  (NN)
Television, VCR, radio sales and service (see “home electronics,
radio, television, VCR sales”)
Textile machinery sales and service                                            2.49                            X   X
Theater, indoor movie                                                          2.29                    X   X
Tire recap or repair facility                                     155.023(HHH) 2.69                                XS
Tobacco shops                                                                  2.22                    X   X
Townhouse (see “dwelling, multi-family”)
Toy shop (see “hobby, toy and craft shop”)
Travel agency                                                                  2.15                    X   X
Trophy and plaque shop                                                         2.22                    X   X
Truck terminal or truck transfer companies                                     2.7                             C   C
Upholstery shop                                                                2.27                        X   X
Variety store                                                                  2.22                    X   X
Vending companies                                                                                              X   X
Video rental and sales                                                         2.31                    X   X
Warehouse (excluding wholesales sales operations and mini-
warehouses and excluding storage of dangerous and offensive items              2.43                            X   X
such as uncured hides and explosives)
Watch and clock repair shop                                                    2.22                    X   X
Welding shop                                                      155.023(SSS) 2.65                            XS  XS
Wholesale sales operation                                                      2.49                            X   X
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 4.1)
§ 155.023 SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall be applicable to uses as indicated in §
155.022 of this chapter.
   (A)   Animal shelters, animal kennels, animal hospital and animal boarding
services.
      (1)   Any structure which houses animals which is not fully enclosed
shall be located at least 100 feet from any lot located in a residential (R-A,
R-20, R-10) district and 50 feet from any other abutting lot line.
      (2)   All pens and kennels must be surrounded by a chain link fence not
less than six feet in height, and enclosed on top, or be located in an enclosed
structure.
      (3)   An animal kennel may only be an accessory use on a lot containing a
principal, owner-occupied, single-family residential use in the R-A District
subject to the regulations contained herein, and subject to a conditional use
permit issued by the Town Council. An animal kennel may not be a principal use
on a lot. Any structure which houses animals, which is not fully enclosed, and
all animal runs shall be located at least 100 feet from any lot line and 500
linear feet from any pre-existing principal residential structure located on
another lot.
   (B)   Building and home materials center and lumber building materials and
lumber storage and sales.
      (1)   All outdoor storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
      (2)   All outdoor storage areas shall be at least 100 feet from any
adjacent residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
   (C)   Automobile service stations.
      (1)   Gasoline pump islands shall be located no closer than 15 feet from
any lot line.
      (2)   Pump island canopies may be constructed to extend to the street
right-of-way.
      (3)   Suitable landscaping shall be provided along all sides of the
property which abut residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) districts, as per §
155.096 of this chapter.
   (D)   Cemetery.
      (1)   Tombstones, crypts, monuments and mausoleums shall be located a
minimum of 20 feet from any side or rear lot line and at least 30 feet from a
street right-of-way. Greater setbacks shall be observed if otherwise required
by the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   Sales of crypts or monuments shall be allowed as an accessory use
on premises (for cemeteries as a principal use only). No building in
conjunction with such sales shall be located closer than 20 feet from any side
lot line abutting a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district and 40 feet from any
such rear lot line.
   (E)   Day care centers associated with churches/places of worship.
      (1)   Outdoor play areas may be located in the rear yard or side yard
only. A minimum side yard setback of ten feet shall be observed along both the
side and rear property lines. On corner or through lots, a minimum 20-foot
setback as measured from the abutting street right-of-way line shall be
observed. (Greater setbacks may be required if otherwise called for in the
underlying zoning district.)
      (2)   All outdoor play areas to be surrounded by a fence or wall at least
four feet in height.
      (3)   Signage for the day care center shall be included in that which is
allowed for the church/ school.
      (4)   The property upon which the day care center is located shall be
used primarily for church or school purposes. If located on a premises of a
church, the day care center shall be an accessory use to the church and may not
be conducted in any single-family residence located on such property. The
number of persons regularly attending such church or school must equal or
exceed the number of enrollees certified by the state to attend the day care
center.
      (5)   If more than 50 enrollees are certified, then there shall be
adequate road ingress and egress to and from the site. Traffic generated by the
facility shall not be disruptive to any adjacent residentially developed
properties.
   (F)   Riding stable/academy.
      (1)   All buildings, structures and facilities (including riding rinks,
but excluding pasture lands) designed for use or occupancy by animals shall be
located at least 100 feet from any lot line and 500 feet from any preexisting
principal residential structure located on an adjacent lot.
      (2)   Such uses (where allowed) may be principal uses or accessory uses
on a lot containing a principal single-family residence.
      (3)   Use requires a minimum of ten acres.
   (G)   Contractors office and storage yards. All outdoor storage areas shall
meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (H)   Correctional facility.
      (1)   A 200-foot setback shall be observed if the facility is adjacent to
any lot located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district or any lot
containing a principal residential use.
      (2)   Any fence which is barbed or contains razors shall be located at
least 20 feet from any lot line which abuts a lot containing a principal
residential use or any lot located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district.
      (3)   All lighting for the facility must be oriented so that direct beams
of light shine away from all adjoining properties.
   (I)   Recycling station/facility.
      (1)   Any preexisting principal residential structure on another lot
shall be located at least 100 linear feet from the building housing this
facility or from any outdoor bins.
      (2)   No outdoor storage of goods to be recycled shall be permitted.
   (J)   Customary home occupations. Customary home occupations may be
established in any principal dwelling unit. The following requirements shall
apply in addition to all other applicable requirements of this chapter for the
district in which such principal dwelling unit is located.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to
the residential use of the dwelling and shall not change the residential
character of the dwelling.
      (2)   No outside storage of materials or equipment shall be allowed in
connection with the home occupation.
      (3)   Use of the dwelling for the home occupation shall be limited to 25%
of the heated finished area of the principal residential structure. Any portion
of a garage or basement may also be devoted to the home occupation.
      (4)   If an accessory structure is used for storage of supplies used in
the customary home occupation, it shall be located in the rear yard only.
      (5)   Residents of the dwelling, plus a maximum of two non-residents, may
be engaged in the customary home occupation or otherwise report to work at the
dwelling.
      (6)   No display of products shall be visible from any adjoining streets
or properties. Sales of products are limited to those made or reconditioned on
the premises and those which are necessary to the service being provided.
      (7)   No external alterations inconsistent with the residential use of
the dwelling shall be permitted.
      (8)   Only vehicles used primarily as passenger vehicles (e.g.,
automobiles, vans and pick-up trucks) shall be permitted in connection with the
conduct of the customary home occupation.
      (9)   Chemical, mechanical or electrical equipment that creates odors,
light emission, noises or interference in radio or television reception
detectable outside the dwelling shall be prohibited.
      (10)   Customary home occupations may be in operation at any time between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (11)   No signs are allowed.
      (12)   No more than one customary home occupation or rural home
occupation shall be permitted per lot.
   (K)   Electric, heating, air conditioning, ventilating and plumbing supplies
and equipment sales. All outdoor storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (L)   Essential services - Class 1 and Class 2.
      (1)   Any vehicles or materials stored on the premises shall meet the
requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter and shall be surrounded by a sturdy fence not less than
six feet in height.
      (2)   All buildings must be set back at least 20 feet from all property
lines.
      (3)   All buildings must be designed and landscaped in such a way as to
blend in with the surrounding area.
      (4)   All dangerous apparatus shall be endorsed by a chain-link fence at
least eight feet in height.
   (M)   Essential services - Class 3.
      (1)   Any vehicles, materials or storage yards on the premises shall meet
the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter and shall be surrounded by a sturdy fence not less than
six feet in height.
      (2)   All buildings must be set back at least 20 feet from all property
lines.
      (3)   All buildings must be designed and landscaped in such a way as to
blend in with the surrounding area.
      (4)   All dangerous apparatus shall be endorsed by a chain-link fence at
least eight feet in height.
   (N)   Fraternal and service organization meeting facility. A side setback of
20 feet and a rear setback of 40 feet shall be required if a side and/or rear
lot line abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district, unless a greater
setback is otherwise required for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (O)   Convalescent home, rest home or nursing home. Any facility which is
licensed to have greater than 50 patients shall maintain a side setback of at
least 20 feet and a rear setback of at least 35 feet when the side or rear yard
is in or abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district, unless a greater
setback is otherwise required for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (P)   Produce stand.
      (1)   A produce stand shall not be located in a road right-of-way.
      (2)   A produce stand shall not be located closer than ten feet to any
side lot line and 20 feet to any side lot line which is in or abuts a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district, unless a greater setback is required
for the zoning district in which it is located.
      (3)   Signs for a produce stand shall not be illuminated, nor have
flashing lights, nor shall they exceed four square feet in area.
      (4)   During the times of the year in which the produce stand is not in
operation, the stand and any structure associated with it shall not be visible
from any public road.
      (5)   All produce sold shall be grown on a lot under the same ownership
as the lot upon which the produce stand is located.
      (6)   Screening shall not always be required for any produce stand.
      (7)   A produce stand may be a principal or accessory use on the lot on
upon which it is located.
   (Q)   Public safety station. All buildings shall be at least 20 feet from
all property lines unless a greater side or rear setback is otherwise required
for the zoning district in which it is located and shall be designed and
landscaped in such a way as to blend in with the surrounding area.
   (R)   Recreation facilities, public or private, country club, swim club.
      (1)   Outdoor recreational facilities (with the exception of swimming
pools) shall be located at least 20 feet from any side or rear lot line, except
50 feet shall be required if in or adjacent to a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10)
district. Rear and side setbacks for outdoor swimming pools shall be 50 feet
each unless adjacent to a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoned property. (See
below.)
      (2)   Outdoor swimming pools shall be at least 100 feet from any
adjoining residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (3)   If a facility is designed to accommodate 200 or more patrons at a
time, a conditional use permit shall be required.
      (4)   Recreational uses other than parks, playgrounds, tennis courts,
lodges and clubs shall require a conditional use permit approval.
      (5)   Hours of operation may be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. only if
located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
   (S)   Recreational use, accessory. All outdoor accessory recreational uses
(with the exception of swimming pools) located on a lot containing public or
institutional use must be located at least 20 feet from any side or rear lot
line, except 50 feet shall be required if adjacent to a residential (R-A, R-20,
R-10) district. Respective setbacks for outdoor swimming pools shall be 50 and
100 feet.
   (T)   Restaurant, fast food, drive-through, drive-in.
      (1)   Any fast-food, drive-in or drive-through restaurant proposed for a
lot which abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district shall be a conditional
use requiring the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Town Council.
      (2)   Sufficient on-site stacking spaces (lane spaces) needed to
accommodate cars that are waiting to be served shall be provided. (Cars should
not back up onto streets during peak hours.)
      (3)   The facility shall be screened from adjacent residential
development.
      (4)   Internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation shall be
satisfactory.
   (U)   Restaurants (within other facilities).
      (1)   A restaurant may be allowed as a permitted accessory use in a
business (C-B, G-B) or industrial (M-1, M-2) district where located within a
use allowed in such a district. Such restaurant shall be designed to serve
customers or users of such use. Examples of such uses include snack shops in
department or variety stores, employee cafeterias, snack shops or canteens in
office buildings, bowling alleys and the like.
      (2)   Access to such restaurant shall not be directly available from the
outdoors.
      (3)   Separate off-street parking spaces for such use shall not be
required.
      (4)   The restaurant shall be allowed up to 16 square feet of exterior
wall identification signage. Said signage shall be included as part of the
signage allowed for the principal use. No free-standing signs for said
restaurant shall be allowed.
      (5)   The aggregate gross area of all restaurants within any building
shall occupy no greater than 10% of the gross floor area of the building.
   (V)   Motels or hotels.
      (1)   Retail uses and restaurants may be located as an accessory use
within any motel or hotel.
      (2)   Off-street parking facilities shall be separately computed at 50%
of the required spaces for any retail use containing over 1,000 square feet of
gross floor area and for any restaurant or lounge which is open to the general
public.
   (W)   Industrial equipment sales, supplies and repair. All service and open
storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (X)   Petroleum bulk sales, storage and offices. All fire and safety
regulations must be met.
   (Y)   Roofing repair and installation, sheet metal. All open storage areas
shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (Z)   Public and private elementary, junior high and senior high schools,
nursery schools, kindergartens. Any school which has greater than 100 students
must have access onto a major or minor thoroughfare or through a collector
road.
   (AA)   Family care homes/group homes.
      (1)   Family care homes and group homes area allowed in preexisting
residences in these zoning districts, as well as new structures.
      (2)   All new group homes shall be a minimum of one-half mile from any
existing group/family homes structure.
   (BB)   Monument sales.
      (1)   Monument sales are allowed as a conditional use if associated with
a cemetery (principal use) in the R-A and R-20 Residential Zoning Districts.
Otherwise, it is not allowed in these districts as a principal use.
      (2)   Monument sales located in the C-B or G-B Zoning Districts must be
least 300 feet away from any lot located in a residential (R-A, R-20 or R-10)
zoning district.
   (CC)   Pet stores. All facilities associated with a pet store shall be
located indoors.
   (DD)   Commercial or office use with outdoor speakers. Outdoor speakers
shall be at least 50 feet from property lines bordering residential development
or residentially zoned properties (R-A, R-20, R-10).
   (EE)   Rural home occupation. A non-residential use conducted in an
accessory structure by the occupants of the lot upon which it is located is
permitted; provided, the following conditions are met.
      (1)   No more than one rural home occupation or customary home occupation
shall be permitted per lot.
      (2)   No more than one accessory structure may be used in conjunction
with the rural home occupation.
      (3)   The maximum floor area devoted to the rural home occupation is
2,000 square feet or less.
      (4)   The accessory building shall be located in the rear yard only.
      (5)   No outside storage of equipment or materials is allowed.
      (6)   The operator of the rural home occupation must reside on the same
parcel of land upon which the rural home occupation is located.
      (7)   No more than three people who do not reside on the premises may be
employed by the rural home occupation.
      (8)   No display of products shall be visible from any adjoining street
and only articles made or reconditioned on the premises may be sold; except
that, non-durable articles incidental to a service conducted as the rural home
occupation may also be sold on the premises.
      (9)   Chemical, mechanical or electrical equipment which creates odors,
smoke, dust, light emission, noises or interferences in radio or television
detectable without the use of instruments beyond the lot shall be prohibited.
      (10)   Rural home occupations may be operated at any time between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
      (11)   No signs allowed.
   (FF)   Exterminators office, laboratories (dental, medical, optical,
research), sign painting shop. Chemical substances shall be disposed of
properly and off-site when no public sewer is available.
   (GG)   Dry cleaning and/or laundry plant.
      (1)   A maximum area of 2,000 square feet of floor space is allowed in
the C-B Zoning District; provided, the emission of steam and other obnoxious by
products is controlled.
      (2)   Chemical substances shall be disposed of properly and off-site when
no public sewer is available.
   (HH)   Greenhouses and gardens incidental to residential use and conducted
on a non-commercial basis. No greenhouse heating plant shall be located within
60 feet from any front property line or within 30 feet of any property line.
   (II)   Rooming and boarding houses.
      (1)   Rooming and boarding houses may be allowed in any single-family
dwelling unit which was either occupied or had received a certificate of
occupancy on or before the effective date of this amendment. Rooming and
boarding houses are not permitted in manufactured homes.
      (2)   The rooming house units must be in the same dwelling as the
principal dwelling.
      (3)   For rooming houses, the principal dwelling must be owner-occupied.
   (JJ)   Private residential quarters.
      (1)   For private residential quarters, the accessory and principal
dwelling units shall be owned by the same person. The accessory dwelling unit
may be located in a separate accessory structure if the area in the lot is at
least 150% that of the required minimum lot size for the zoning district in
question. If the private residential quarters is in a detached unit, it shall
be served by the same driveway accessing the principal unit. Manufactured homes
may not be used for the accessory dwelling unit.
      (2)   The ground floor of a private residential quarter may be no greater
than 50% of the ground floor area of the principal unit.
      (3)   If the accessory dwelling unit is located in an accessory
structure, said structure shall be located in the rear yard and shall not
occupy greater than 30% of the rear yard. No structure shall be located closer
than 15 feet from any side or rear lot line. An accessory structure housing the
dwelling unit shall not exceed the height of the principal dwelling. Roof and
exterior wall materials and finishes of said accessory structure shall be
comparable in comparison and appearance to that of the principal structure.
   (KK)   Multi-family development, quadruplex, townhomes, condominiums.
      (1)   The proposed ingress and egress points will not result in a
substantial amount of vehicular traffic to be channeled onto adjacent local
streets (non-collector/non-arterial streets).
      (2)   Up to four dwelling units per acre are allowed for multi-family
developments by right. Developments proposing over four units per acre, will
require a conditional use permit.
   (LL)   Telecommunications towers and facilities. If it is determined that
telecommunications providers cannot provide an adequate service level from co-
locating on an existing telecommunications tower, locate on an existing Duke
Power transmission tower or similar structure or locate camouflaged antennas
within an existing structure then telecommunications towers and facilities will
be allowed as a conditional use in the RA, R-20, R-10, C-B and G-B Zoning
Districts, and as a use by right in the industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning district,
subject to the following regulations in addition to applicable requirements set
forth in each zoning district and elsewhere in this chapter.
      (1)   (a)   In all residential zoning districts (R-A, R-20 and R-10) and
in all business zoning districts (C-B and G-B), all telecommunication towers
shall be of a monopole design and construction. All monopoles must be designed
to telescope or collapse inward unless documentation can be provided to prove
that such design is not feasible.
         (b)   In the industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning district, a monopole or
lattice construction steel structure tower is acceptable. Monopoles must be
designed to telescope or collapse inward; lattice towers must be designed to
collapse inward upon itself.
      (2)   It is the intent of the town to encourage providers to co-locate
facilities in an effort to reduce the number of telecommunication towers in the
town. Unless it is determined to be unfeasible, new communications towers
should be capable of supporting additional communications antennas. This will
assist the town in reducing the total number of towers in the town. The town
requires providers to negotiate in good faith with other providers to lease
space at a reasonable cost and for reasonable terms and to publicize the fact
that space is available on a lease basis as part of the conditional use permit
process.
      (3)   The maximum allowable height of a tower is 199.9 feet in the R-A,
R-20, R-10, C-B and G-B Zoning Districts. The maximum height of a tower located
in the industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning district is 300 feet. No variance to the
height may be granted unless the applicant can prove the maximum height will
not allow for the provision of adequate service levels (i.e., cannot provide a
reasonable level of service in the area). The height of the tower or structure
shall be the vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the finished
grade at the front of the structure to the highest point of the structure.
      (4)   Where a telecommunication tower is located on a lot with an
existing principal use, the tower shall be located in the rear yard only. In
addition, a recorded easement for an access road at least 12 feet wide shall be
maintained by the property owner and/or the applicant from a public street to
the tower for use by service and emergency vehicles.
      (5)   Stealth tower locations are encouraged by the town.
Telecommunications towers which can locate in or on an existing structures or
which can be camouflaged to resemble a tree (not a flagpole) are encouraged.
Towers which are located in a stand of trees, rather than in an open field, are
preferred.
      (6)   (a)   Towers are prohibited on the top of buildings or structures
in all the residential and business zoning districts. In the industrial (M-1,
M-2) zoning districts, towers may be permitted on roofs or walls with an
approved conditional use permit after submittal of a report by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer indicating the existing structure’s suitability
to accept the antenna and the proposed method of affixing the antennas to the
structure. Complete details of all fixtures and couplings and the precise point
of attachment shall be indicated.
         (b)   Towers on roofs may be allowed when the tower height does not
exceed more than 30% of the height of the building or is no more than 50 feet
above the building/structure, whichever is less. Towers on roofs or walls shall
be screened, constructed and/or colored to match the structure to which they
are attached.
      (7)   The town recognizes that a telecommunications facility (the
original tower and antennas provider as well as any co-location entities)
cannot be prohibited nor can a conditional use permit be denied on the basis of
environmental or health concerns relating to radio emissions if the
telecommunications equipment and facility complies with the federal radio
frequency emission standards. The town requires that each applicant for a
permit must provide documentation proving that their telecommunications
equipment complies with the federal radio frequency emission standards.
      (8)   All accessory structures on the ground which contain switching
equipment or other related equipment should be architecturally compatible with
surrounding buildings and land uses in the zoning district, or otherwise
integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the existing
characteristics of the site to the extent practical. This means structures with
pitched roofs, made of local construction materials, such as brick, wood, stone
or vinyl-lapped siding.
      (9)   A minimum eight-foot high chain link fence is required immediately
around the telecommunications tower and any equipment building(s) since the
tower can be considered an attractive nuisance. Barbed wire shall be used along
the top of the fence and access to the tower area and equipment buildings shall
be through a locked gate. The Zoning Administrator may waive fencing
requirements for stealth towers and other types of structures if the fencing
serves no useful purpose. Note: applicants building new towers shall plan the
fence and screening (see division (LL)(10) below) to accommodate all future
providers on the site such that the fence and screening materials surround the
land designated for all future equipment buildings and the tower.
      (10)   (a)   Landscape screening shall be required along the outside area
of the perimeter fenced area(s) to mitigate the visual impacts of the tower and
equipment buildings from nearby viewers. Landscape materials shall meet the
requirements of §§
155.096,
155.097 and
155.100 of this chapter. Evergreen shrubs should be of a size expected to reach
a minimum of six feet in height at maturity. Trees may be evergreen or
deciduous. All landscaping shall be xeroscape (drought) tolerant or irrigated
to ensure good health and vitality.
         (b)   The plant standards and plant installation standards of §
155.101 of this chapter shall apply, as well as screen and buffer maintenance
requirements of §
155.104 of this chapter.
         (c)   Screening requirements shall not apply to telecommunications
providers who camouflage (stealth towers) tower or antennas within another
structure (such as a steeple), or co-locate on an existing tower; nor shall
screening apply when an antennas will be mounted on an electrical transmission
tower or on structures such as a water tower/tank, grain silos and the like or
similar structures.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator may waive any or all of the screening
requirements upon determining that the existing topography or existing natural
materials on site will screen the property as effectively as the required
screening, provided that the spirit and intent of this division (LL)(10) are
met. The Zoning Administrator may also waive screening on those sides of the
proposed tower that are located adjacent to undevelopable property. Such a
waiver may not be sought to relieve the screening requirement for towers to be
located adjacent to vacant properties or along any public right-of-way.
Undevelopable property shall constitute any such property or land that is
unable to be used as a building site (i.e., a floodplain and the like).
      (11)   (a)   Minimum setback requirements for free-standing towers
located with the R-A, R-20, R-10, C-B and G-B Zoning Districts shall be one
foot for every one foot of actual tower height (i.e., a 199.9-foot tower would
require a 199.9-foot setback on all sides), or the documented collapse zone,
whichever is greater. Minimum setbacks for free-standing towers located in the
industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning district shall be determined by the underlying
zoning district. These setback requirements are applicable on all sides of the
property including any side along the road right-of-way and for all leased
areas of a parcel. The purpose of these setback requirements are to prevent
ice-fall materials and/or debris from tower failure or collapse from damaging
off-site property. For the purpose of establishing setbacks, the measurements
shall be from the edge of the concrete base on which the tower is located,
unless the tower is located in a leased area. Setbacks for towers located on
leased parcels shall be measured to the edge of the parcel in which the leased
area is located.
         (b)   Minimum setback requirements may be reduced by the Town Council,
if warranted, or to allow the integration of a tower into an existing or
proposed structure such as a church steeple, light standards, power line
support device or similar structure.
      (12)   All towers shall be a minimum of 300 feet from the nearest
residential dwelling unit.
      (13)   Telecommunications towers not requiring FAA painting/marking shall
have either a galvanized finish or be painted a non-contrasting light blue,
gray or black finish.
      (14)   Telecommunications providers who are leasing a portion of a lot
for the proposed telecommunication tower shall obtain written a signed
certification from the property owner that no future development or
subdivisions or leased portions will be made within the established setbacks of
the telecommunication tower until such tower is removed from the site (i.e., is
abandoned and removed by the provider). This does not apply to
telecommunication providers seeking to co-locate on an existing tower.
      (15)   Towers and related facilities must be removed by the applicant
and/or property owner upon abandonment of the tower (no longer used for its
original intent) for a period greater than 90 consecutive days. Such removal
(clearing from the site) shall take place within six months of the first day
the tower was abandoned, and be completed within this same six-month period. It
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the town when the tower
has been abandoned for greater than 90 days.
      (16)   Towers having a height of 199.9 feet or less shall not contain
lights or light fixtures at a height exceeding 15 feet. Furthermore, lighting
of all towers in any district shall be directed toward the tower and/or
accessory uses to reduce glare onto adjacent properties. It is recognized that
towers over 200 feet in height require night time strobe lights as per the
Federal Aviation Administration.
      (17)   Free-standing telecommunications towers should be located to avoid
a dominant silhouette on ridges or in open fields.
      (18)   Any planned increase in tower height to an existing approved
telecommunication tower located within the R-A, R-20, R-10, C-B or G-B Zoning
Districts requires the provider to apply for an amendment to the original
conditional use permit. Normal maintenance and repair of the structure can be
completed without the issuance of a new permit at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator. Planned height increases for towers which were constructed prior
to the adoption of these regulations and/or do not have a conditional use
permit on file with the town, shall be required to apply for a conditional use
permit, which includes a review and approval by the town.
      (19)   (a)   Applications by providers to use co-location space on an
existing tower shall be permitted by right; provided that, the tower height is
not increased. If the co-locator or owner of the tower proposes to increase the
tower’s height in all zoning districts, except the industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning
district, the co-locator or owner shall request an amendment to the original
conditional use permit issued to the original tower provider. As such, the
regulations of §
155.179 of this chapter shall apply, which requires review and approval of an
amendment to the conditional use permit by the Planning Board and Town Council.
Co-location applicants also must comply with all requirements provided in
division (MM) below, unless provided by the original conditional use permit
applicant.
         (b)   If the co-locator or owner proposes to increase the tower height
in the industrial (M-1, M-2) zoning district, this would require a new zoning
permit and building permit.
      (20)   (a)   Free-standing signs are prohibited. Wall signs shall be
limited to:
            1.   Identification signage allowed on equipment structures or
fences surrounding the telecommunication tower/structure; provided, it does not
exceed nine square feet in size; and
            2.   “No trespassing” signs, “Danger - High Voltage” signs and
other similar warning signs shall be installed to discourage trespassing by
unauthorized persons.
         (b)   Signs shall be installed and/or mounted on the perimeter fence
and/or on the tower at its base.
      (21)   The provider must show proof of adequate insurance coverage for
any potential damage caused by or to the telecommunications tower prior to the
issuance of a conditional use permit, or an amendment to that permit. Once
approved, documentation of adequate insurance must be provided to the town’s
Zoning Administrator every 12 months.
      (22)   Outdoor storage of equipment or other related items is prohibited.
      (23)   Associated telecommunications equipment buildings located in any
zoning district shall not be used an employment center. This provision does not
prohibit the periodic maintenance or periodic monitoring of equipment and
instruments.
      (24)   All applications for a conditional use permit (or amendment to the
original conditional use permit) for a telecommunication tower must include the
following information in addition to any other applicable information contained
in this chapter:
         (a)   Identification of intended provider(s);
         (b)   Documentation by a registered engineer that the tower has
sufficient structural integrity to accommodate more than one user, if
applicable. A statement about the general capacity of the tower in terms of the
number of additional providers, or co-locators, it is designed to accommodate;
         (c)   A statement from the provider indicating intent to allow shared
use of the tower and how others will be accommodated;
         (d)   Documentation that all property owners of residentially zoned
property within 300 feet of the edge of all sides of the property (for leased
sites this means the edge of the larger parcel in which the leased portion is
located), as well as adjacent property owners, have been notified by the
applicant of the proposed tower height and design. Notification of property
owners is also required for amendments to existing conditional use permits;
         (e)   Documentation that the telecommunication equipment complies with
federal radio frequency emission standards;
         (f)   Documentation that towers over 199.9 feet are necessary for a
minimal level of service;
         (g)   A site plan(s) drawn to scale, identifying the site boundary,
tower(s), existing and proposed structures, including equipment buildings,
access, fencing area, fall radius and landscape screening, detailing the type
of landscaping, amount of plantings and location. A site plan is not needed for
providers who are seeking an amendment to a conditional use permit for
coloration on an existing tower, when the equipment building is to be located
within the existing fenced area;
         (h)   Documentation of monopole tower or lattice tower collapse area,
if applicable; and
         (i)   Expert testimony that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Town Council that the provider has explored all means for stealth tower
locations and co-location opportunities, if applicable. Evidence may consist of
the following:
            1.   Existing or approved telecommunications towers with available
co-location space are not located within the search area;
            2.   Existing or approved towers or structures are not of
sufficient height to meet the provider’s specifications;
            3.   Existing or approved towers or structures do not have
sufficient structural strength to support the applicant’s proposed antennas;
            4.   The provider’s proposed antenna would cause objectionable
radio frequency interference with existing or planned antennas on an existing
or planned tower (i.e., the spacing requirement between antennas cannot be
met);
            5.   Existing or approved towers lack co-location space; or
            6.   If it is determined that an existing tower does not have the
structural strength or integrity to support additional antennas and associated
equipment, then the proposed provider shall provide documentation that the
existing tower can not be structurally strengthened to accommodate an
additional user.
      (25)   Towers shall not restrict or interfere with air traffic or air
travel to and from any existing or proposed public or private airport. All
proposed towers shall comply with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
standards.
      (26)   The following requirements apply for telecommunications tower
conditional use permit requests.
         (a)   Decisions by the Town Council to approve or deny a conditional
use permit for a telecommunications tower must be in writing to the applicant,
along with detailed reasoning for the approval/denial, as per federal law.
         (b)   The applicant and the public are requested to submit their
comments and arguments in writing prior to addressing the Town Council at the
public hearing, as suggested by federal law.
         (c)   The decision of the Town Council must be based upon substantial
evidence, which must be recorded in the minutes, as per federal law.
         (d)   In determining if a telecommunications tower should be approved/
denied, the Planning Board and Town Council may take into account the tower’s
harmony with the surrounding area and its compatibility with adjacent
properties. the aesthetic effects of the tower, as well as any mitigating
factors concerning the aesthetics may be used to evaluate the conditional use
permit. In reaching a decision, the Town Council may request the height,
design, screening, placement or other characteristics of the tower be modified
to produce a more harmonious situation.
   (MM)   Telecommunications antennas and associated equipment locating
existing towers and structures.
      (1)   Provided the structural integrity of the structure/tower is not
compromised or diminished as determined or documented by a licensed
professional structural engineer, telecommunications antennas and its
associated equipment buildings may locate on any existing tower, water tank/
tower or similar structures by right in all zoning districts so long as the
addition does not increase the original height of the existing structure or
tower. Such antennas shall be painted to match the color of the building/
structure or the background against which it is most commonly seen. Note: no
antennas used for the purpose of telecommunications shall be mounted on any
structure used solely for residential purposes.
      (2)   The town requires that each applicant shall provide documentation
proving that their telecommunications equipment complies with the federal radio
frequency emission standards.
      (3)   Screening requirements shall not apply to telecommunications
providers who camouflage antennas within another structure (stealth locations)
such as a church steeple or co-locate on an existing tower, nor shall any
screening apply when an antennas will be mounted on an electrical transmission
tower or on structures such as a water tower/tank, grain silos and the like or
similar structures.
      (4)   Applications by providers to use co-location space on an approved
existing telecommunications tower shall be permitted by right; provided that,
the tower height is not increased. Any co-location which will result in an
increase to the tower height, (on a tower located in all zoning districts,
except the industrial (I) zoning district), shall require the co-locator or
applicant to apply for an amendment to the original conditional use permit, or
apply for a new conditional use permit (if there is no original conditional use
permit) which includes a new review and approval by the town.
      (5)   Outdoor storage of equipment or other related or non-related items
are prohibited.
      (6)   The associated telecommunication antennas equipment buildings
located in any zoning district shall not be used as an employment center. This
provision does not prohibit the periodic maintenance or periodic monitoring of
equipment and instruments.
      (7)   Telecommunications antennas and associated equipment shall not
restrict or interfere with air traffic or air travel to or from any existing or
proposed public or private airport. All proposed towers shall comply with
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) standards.
   (NN)   Co-location requirements for newly proposed and replacement
telecommunications towers.
      (1)   The location of antennas and associated equipment on an approved
telecommunications tower shall be permitted by right in all zoning districts;
provided, the tower’s height is not increased and the structural integrity of
the tower is not diminished or compromised as determined/documented by a
licensed professional/structural engineer.
      (2)   New telecommunications towers and replacement towers shall provide
enough ground site area to accommodate future providers’ ground equipment
buildings associated with future antennas co-locates.
   (OO)   Duplexes. Duplexes in residential subdivisions are allowed only on
corner lots.
   (PP)   Bed and breakfast inns.
      (1)   Number of guest bedrooms may not exceed seven.
      (2)   A site plan must demonstrate adequate parking, visual screening and
other similar features.
      (3)   In any residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district, no more than
two off-street parking spaces shall be provided in the front yard.
      (4)   Outdoor recreation facilities for guests, if any, should be
included in the site plan for review.
      (5)   Services and facilities shall be provided to current patrons only,
not to the public.
      (6)   The type of sign permitted, the number of signs, the maximum area
of signs, illumination and maximum height of any sign allowed for bed and
breakfast inns located in the residential districts must be reviewed by the
Planning Board and approved by the Town Council on a parcel by parcel basis.
   (QQ)   Shooting ranges, indoor.
      (1)   An architect is employed to design and supervise building
construction.
      (2)   Must meet underwriters lab approval.
   (RR)   Adult establishments, adult video stores, adult hotel/motel. Adult
establishments, adult video stores and adult hotel/motels shall be permitted
with a conditional use permit subject to the following requirements, except
where requirements in other applicable sections of this chapter are more
restrictive.
      (1)   Adult establishments, adult video stores and adult hotel or motel
shall be permitted as a conditional use in the M-2 Zoning District, subject to
the additional locational criteria set forth in this section.
      (2)   No lot containing an adult establishment, adult video store or
adult hotel/motel shall be within 2,000 feet of another lot containing an adult
establishment or adult hotel or motel. The required distance shall be measured
from the closest edge of the property occupied by an adult establishment, adult
video store or adult hotel/motel.
      (3)   No lot containing an adult establishment, adult video store or
adult hotel/motel shall be located on any lot whose property line is within
1,500 feet of the property line of a church, school, library, public park or
playground or day care center. The distance shall be measured from the closest
edge of the property occupied by an adult establishment, adult video store or
adult hotel/motel.
      (4)   No lot containing an adult establishment, adult video store or
adult hotel/motel shall be located on any lot whose property line is within
1,000 feet from a residential dwelling unit. The distance shall be measured
from the closest edge of the property occupied by an adult establishment, adult
video store or adult hotel/motel.
      (5)   No more than one adult establishment shall be located within the
same structure or portion thereof.
      (6)   Except for adult hotels and motels, no adult establishment may
provide sleeping quarters.
      (7)   No printed material, slide, video, photograph, written text, live
show or other visual presentation shall be visible, nor shall any live or
recorded voices, music or sounds be heard from outside the walls of the
establishment.
      (8)   No free-standing (detached) sign shall be permitted. Attached
signage on all building faces shall not exceed 100 square feet total; provided,
however, in no case shall signage cover more than 10% of the wall area of any
wall of the principal structure. A sign plan showing the location and number of
attached sign(s) must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator prior to the
issuance of any permits to verify compliance with this section.
      (9)   A buffer and screening as required in §
155.096 of this chapter shall be installed along all interior property lines in
accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter. This shall apply regardless of the type of adjoining
use or non-use of the adjoining property.
      (10)   Off-street parking shall be installed in accordance with §§
155.120 through
155.131 of this chapter and the number of spaces required shall be determined
at the same rate as that required for the closest corresponding non-adult use.
   (SS)   Amusement parks, fairgrounds, fun park. All outdoor recreation
facilities and vending stands shall be located at least 500 linear feet from a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district. Otherwise, all buildings or structures,
whether permanent or temporary, may not be located within 100 feet of any lot
line.
   (TT)   Animal grooming services.
      (1)   All animals must be kept indoors at all times.
      (2)   Animal boarding facilities shall not be permitted.
   (UU)   Appliance sales and repair shop. All outdoor storage of appliances
shall be effectively screened from view from any adjacent lot or street right-
of-way. Such screening shall be in the form of a berm, wall or fence, or an
appropriate amount of natural plantings to effectively screen the storage from
view.
   (VV)   Automobile body shop, automobile repair shop, automotive repair shop.
      (1)   The lot containing such use shall be located at least 100 linear
feet from any lot located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (2)   All outside storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
      (3)   Hours of operation may be from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. only when
adjoining a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district, if repair and
maintenance facilities are provided or if pumped automotive fuels are sold.
      (4)   Screening along all sides of the property are required in
accordance with §
155.096 of this chapter if the property abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, or R-
10) zoning district.
   (WW)   Automobile detailing shops. Hours of operation of outdoor activities
may be from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. only when adjoining a residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoning district.
   (XX)   Automobile towing and wrecking service.
      (1)   Any outdoor vehicle storage area shall be located a minimum of 100
linear feet from any street right-of-way and 200 linear feet from any
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district lots which contain a principal
residential use.
      (2)   Vehicle storage facilities shall not be located at an elevation
whereby the storage is visible from a public street after the required
screening is in place.
      (3)   Screening shall be in accordance with §
155.096 of this chapter along all sides of the property which abut residential
(R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning districts.
      (4)   All outside storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
      (5)   No more than 50 vehicles may be stores on the premises.
      (6)   All lighting shall be directed away from surrounding properties.
      (7)   Vehicles may only be stored in designated outdoor storage areas.
   (YY)   Automobile wash, Class 1 (self-service car wash).
      (1)   Vacuuming, drying and polishing facilities may not be located in
any required yard or buffer area adjacent to a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10)
zoning district.
      (2)   At least two staging spaces and one drying space per wash bay shall
be provided.
      (3)   Hours of operation may be from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. only when
adjoining a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (4)   All vehicular accessible areas on the lot shall be at least 100
feet from any interior lot line separating the lot from a residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoning district.
      (5)   Security light must be shielded from adjacent residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoned properties to prevent undue bright lights from shining onto/
into dwellings.
      (6)   Loud music to be controlled by property owner.
      (7)   Adjacent screening and landscaping required as per §
155.096 of this chapter.
   (ZZ)   Automobile wash, Class 2 (automatic car wash).
      (1)   Hours of operation may be from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. only when
adjoining a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (2)   All vehicular accessible areas on the lot shall be at least 100
feet from any interior lot line separating the lot from a residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoning district.
      (3)   Security light must be shielded from adjacent residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoned properties to prevent undue bright lights from shining onto/
into dwellings.
      (4)   Loud music to be controlled by property owner.
      (5)   Adjacent screening and landscaping required as per §
155.096 of this chapter.
   (AAA)   Camping and recreational vehicle parks.
      (1)   All spaces for camping and recreational vehicles shall be located
at least 100 feet from any adjoining lot line.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other screening requirements, the campground
shall be sufficiently wooded to provide an opaque natural buffer between the
campground, all adjacent lots and all adjacent public roads at the time the
campground is initially developed.
      (3)   Accessory uses, limited to usage by campground patrons, may include
laundry facilities, and the selling of convenience items (snacks, beverages and
the like).
   (BBB)   Churches/house of worship.
      (1)   If a school is operated on the premises, parking needs may be
satisfied by that already provided by the church. The school shall be
considered a permitted use so long as the school meets all applicable area,
bulk and setback requirements.
      (2)   A single-family residential use, occupied by the pastor, priest,
rabbi and the like of the facility, may be placed on the lot containing the
church/house of worship. Said structure shall meet all setback requirements for
single-family dwellings for the zoning district in which the lot is located.
Said structure may not be used for day care facilities.
      (3)   If a day care center with an enrollment capacity in excess of 25
students is operated on the premises, the day care center shall be deemed a
separate use and may be allowed subject to the regulations covering such uses
in the underlying zoning district.
   (CCC)   Community centers.
      (1)   In residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning districts, a community
center may be allowed as a conditional use if interior assembly seating
capacity is 500 persons or less.
      (2)   In all business (C-B, G-B) zoning districts, any community center
with a seating capacity of up to 500 persons shall be a use by right. All other
community centers shall be a conditional use.
   (DDD)   Convenience stores, mini-marts, express fuels.
      (1)   Vacuuming facilities may be located outside the building, but may
not be located within any required yard or buffer area adjacent to a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (2)   If a mini-mart or convenience store is located adjacent to a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district, hours of operation may be from
5:00 a.m. to midnight only.
      (3)   A mini-mart or convenience store may contain a free-standing
automatic car wash facility. All applicable supplemental regulations contained
in division (ZZ) above shall be followed.
      (4)   Gasoline pump islands shall be located no closer than 15 feet from
any lot line.
      (5)   Pump island canopies may be constructed to extend to the street
right-of-way.
      (6)   Suitable landscaping shall be provided along all sides of the
property which abut residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning districts as per §§
155.096 and
155.098 of this chapter.
      (7)   Convenience or mini-mart stores must have a minimum of 100-foot
setback when adjacent to residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoned property.
      (8)   Security light must be shielded from all adjacent residential zoned
property to prevent undue bright lights shining onto/into dwellings.
   (EEE)   Family day care home.
      (1)   The facility is staffed by persons residing in the dwelling in
which the day care center is located and up to one non-resident.
      (2)   Outdoor play areas may be located in the rear yard or side yard
only. A minimum side yard setback of ten feet shall be observed along both the
side and rear property lines. On corner or through lots, a minimum 20-foot
setback as measured from the abutting street right-of-way line shall be
observed. (Greater setbacks may be required if otherwise called for in the
underlying zoning district.)
      (3)   All outdoor play areas shall be surrounded by a fence or wall at
least four feet in height. Outdoor play areas shall not include driveways,
parking areas or other land unsuitable for play use.
      (4)   No signs shall be allowed.
      (5)   The day care center shall be located in a structure originally
constructed as and designed for a single-family dwelling. Said structure shall
be the principal structure on the lot. The exterior of the structure (aside
from the allowed day care signage) shall not be altered in any manner which
diminishes its single-family dwelling characteristics.
   (FFF)   Day care centers (commercial establishments).
      (1)   Outdoor play areas may be located in the rear yard or side yard
only. If located in the side yard, a minimum side yard setback of ten feet
shall be observed. On corner or through lots, a minimum 20-foot setback as
measured from the abutting street right-of-way line shall be observed. (Greater
setbacks may be required if otherwise called for in the underlying zoning
district.)
      (2)   All outdoor play areas shall be surrounded by a fence or wall at
least four feet in height.
   (GGG)   Dry cleaning outlets.
      (1)   Any dry cleaning plant associated with an outlet or pick-up station
shall have less than 2,000 square feet of floor area in the C-B District only.
      (2)   The emission of steam or other noxious by-products shall be
controlled in the C-B District only.
   (HHH)   Farm equipment sales and service, tire recap facility. All
activities shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
   (III)   Racetrack, outdoor.
      (1)   No portion of the race course perimeter shall be located closer
than 300 linear feet from any exterior lot line, except 500 linear feet from
any lot line abutting a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
      (2)   Hours of operation may be between the hours of 10:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. only (racetracks).
      (3)   All race courses for any motorized vehicles shall be paved.
   (JJJ)   Game room/video arcade. A game room, unless located within a
shopping center or other planned commercial development, shall be located at
least 300 linear feet from any residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district,
unless a greater setback is otherwise required for the zoning district in which
it is located.
   (KKK)   Golf courses (miniature) and golf driving ranges.
      (1)   Fencing, netting, trees, berms or other control measures shall be
provided around the perimeter of the driving or playing areas so as to prevent
golf balls from going onto adjacent properties. Such devices, where applicable,
may be counted towards any required screening provided.
      (2)   No direct beam of light from outdoor lighting fixtures or signs
shall shine into any lots located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district.
   (LLL)   Junk yard and automobile salvage yard. Any lot containing such use
shall be located at least 300 linear feet from any lot in a residential (R-A,
R-20, R-10) zoning district.
   (MMM)   Lounge (principal use). Any lounge shall be located at least 300
linear feet from any lot in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
   (NNN)   Mini-warehouse, Class 1 and 2.
      (1)   All storage compartments within the mini-warehouse shall front on a
private drive having a minimum width of 25 feet to ensure sufficient room for
vehicular circulation, loading and parking.
      (2)   Driveways providing ingress and egress to the site shall not permit
any parking or loading extending to within 30 feet of the adjoining street
right-of-way.
      (3)   If the mini-warehouse facility has a locked and keyed entrance two
staging spaces must be provided directly in front of the entrance.
      (4)   All mini-warehouses must have a minimum setback of 100 feet from
any adjacent residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoned property.
      (5)   Outside storage is limited to only Class 2 mini-warehouses.
      (6)   Suitable screening and landscaping is required along all sides of
the property which abut residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning districts as per §
155.096 of this chapter.
      (7)   If mini-warehouse is to be located adjacent to a residential (R-A,
R-20, R-10) zoning district, hours of operation may be from 8:00 a.m. to 9:00
p.m. only.
      (8)   Security lights are to be shielded from all residential zoned
property adjacent to mini- warehouses to prevent undue bright lights shining
onto/into dwellings.
   (OOO)   Motorcycle sales. The lot which such use is located shall be located
at least 300 linear feet from any lot located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-
10) zoning district.
   (PPP)   Rest homes, home for the aged, independent living center, nursing
home, convalescent home, continuing care facility. Any facility which is
licensed to have greater than 50 residents shall maintain a side setback of at
least 20 feet and a rear setback of at least 35 feet when the side or rear yard
is in or abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district or a lot
containing a principal residential use, unless a greater setback is otherwise
required for the zoning district in which it is located.
   (QQQ)   Shopping centers. Uses in a shopping center are limited to those
which are allowed in the underlying zoning district. Any use shown as a
“conditional use” shall require the issuance of a conditional use permit in a
shopping center irrespective of the size of that shopping center.
   (RRR)   Stadiums.
      (1)   Stadiums located in a residential (R-A, R-20) zoning district shall
be limited to those constructed for use primarily by teams representing junior
high schools, middle schools, high schools colleges or universities. Such
structures may be either principal or accessory structures.
      (2)   Access to the site shall be provided by major or minor
thoroughfares only.
      (3)   No direct beam of light from outdoor lighting fixtures or signs
shall shine onto any abutting lots which are located in a residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoning district or onto any adjoining residentially developed lot.
      (4)   All principal structures (including bleachers) shall be located a
minimum of 100 feet from all lot lines.
      (5)   Screening will be provided in accordance with §
155.096 of this chapter.
      (6)   Off-street parking requirements shall be met only if the stadium is
free-standing and not an accessory use to a school.
      (7)   Stadiums shall be a use by right only if accessory (and on the
premises of) a school. Otherwise, the use shall be conditional.
   (SSS)   Bakeries, cabinet and woodworking shops, manufactured goods Class 1,
sign paining shop, welding shop.
      (1)   The manufacturing, compounding or processing of goods or materials
shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
      (2)   Any outdoor, storage of materials, equipment or supplies must meet
the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (TTT)   Commercial vehicle storage and/or operation center.
      (1)   Outdoor speakers shall be at least 50 feet from property lines,
residential development or residentially zoned properties (R-A R-20, R-10).
      (2)   All outdoor storage areas shall meet the requirements of §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (UUU)   Rental Center, Class 2. Outdoor storage of equipment shall be
screened in accordance with §
155.098 of this chapter.
   (VVV)   Manufactured goods, Class 2.
      (1)   The use will not overly impact the ability of a public agency to
collect and/or treat any wastewater generated by the use or the ability of the
public agency to treat and distribute any potable water needed by the use.
      (2)   The use will not overly impact (impact beyond capacity) the system
of streets serving the use or that improvements will be made to such streets in
consort with the development of said use, the result of which will be adequate
handling of the additional traffic generated.
      (3)   Not only will the use meet the minimum screening requirements of §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter, but also that such additional screening will be
installed, as necessitated by the visual characteristics of the particular use,
such that the use will be screened from view of adjoining residential
districts, or that the nature of the topography makes the screening from
distance view from such residential areas impossible and that other measures
such as heavy on-site landscaping will be taken to lessen any near or distant
visual impacts.
   (WWW)   Street vendors.
      (1)   The permission of the property owner must be obtained in writing to
allow the owner of the street vending business to operate on his or her
property.
      (2)   Clean up of the property at the end of each business day is
required, including trash and debris left from operation of the business.
      (3)   Operations shall be outside of the street right-of-way.
      (4)   A monthly business permit shall be obtained from the town.
      (5)   Adequate parking, driveways and maneuvering space shall be
available, reviewed and approved by the Town Council.
      (6)   The business shall not create a traffic or safety hazard based on
its location.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4.2)
§ 155.024 YARD, BULK, HEIGHT AND SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be applicable to each use in the various
zoning districts, except as may be specifically provided for elsewhere in this
chapter.
   (A)   R-A Residential District.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. (Subject to increase per requirements of County
Health Department.)
All other uses                            1 acre
Animal kennel, animal shelter             3 acres
Bed and breakfast inn                     40,000 sq. ft.
Day care home, family                     Same as single-family dwellings
Essential services, Class 1               None
Essential services, Class 2               5 acres
Family campgrounds                        5 acres
Family care home                          Same as single-family dwellings
Parks, playgrounds                        None
Produce stand                             None
Public safety station                     None
Recreation facilities (except parks,      1 acre
playgrounds)
Rooming and boarding houses               Same as a single-family dwelling
School                                    5 acres
Single-family dwellings (and manufactured 20,000 sq. ft.
homes)
Triplex, quadruplex                       1 acre
Two-family dwellings                      30,000 sq. ft. (15,000 sq. ft. per
                                          dwelling unit)
 
      (2)   Minimum front setback. (As measured from the edge of the street
right-of-way line.)
 
                            50 ft.; however single-family dwellings, duplexes,
                            family care homes and rooming and boarding houses
All other uses              must have at least 100 ft. in lot width at the
                            front building line, and duplex lots must be at
                            least 110 ft. in width at the front building line
Essential services, Class 1 None
Produce stand               25 ft.
 
      (3)   Minimum side setback. (An additional ten feet shall be required on
all side yards which abut a public or private street.)
All other    25 ft.
uses
Bed and
breakfast    20 ft.
inn
Day care     15 ft.
home, family
Essential
services,    None
Class 1
Family care  15 ft.
home
Rest home    20 ft.
Rooming and
boarding     15 ft.
houses
Single-
family
dwellings    15 ft. or 0 ft. if zero lot line development is proposed (see §
(and         155.077)
manufactured
homes)
Triplex,     15 ft. or 0 ft. if zero lot line (side yard) development is proposed (see §
quadruplex   155.077)
Two-family   15 ft.
dwellings
 
      (4)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All other uses              40 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
 
      (5)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses 35 ft., except as provided in §
         155.065 of this chapter
 
      (6)   Minimum lot width. (As measured at the required front setback;
however, uses indicated with an asterisk (*) may have no less than 35 feet of
street frontage at the street right-of-way line, unless the use is on a corner
lot which requires a minimum of 45 feet of street frontage measured at the
street right-of-way line on one side to permit adequate setback from the
abutting street.)
All other uses                                   150 ft.
Bed and breakfast inn*                           125 ft.
Day care home, family*                           100 ft.
Essential services, Class 1                      None
Family care home*                                100 ft.
Quadruplex*                                      140 ft.
Rooming and boarding house*                      100 ft.
Single-family dwelling (and manufactured homes)* 100 ft.
Triplex*                                         120 ft.
Two-family dwelling*                             110 ft.
 
      (7)   Screening. Screening, in accordance with §
155.098 of this chapter shall generally be required when a non-residential use
in this zoning district abuts a residentially developed or undeveloped lot in a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district. Screening may also be required as
provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   R-20 Residential District.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. (Subject to increase per requirements of County
Health Department.)
All other uses                                   1 acre
Bed and breakfast inn                            25,000 sq. ft.
Churches                                         1 acre
Day care home, family                            15,000 sq. ft.
Duplex                                           30,000 sq. ft.
Essential services, Class 1                      None
Family care home                                 15,000 sq. ft.
Parks, playgrounds                               None
Produce stand                                    None
Public safety station                            None
Recreation facilities (except parks,             1 acre
playgrounds)
Rooming and boarding house                       Same as single-family dwelling
Schools                                          5 acres
Single-family dwellings (and manufactured homes) 15,000 sq. ft.
Triplex, quadruplex                              1 acre
 
      (2)   Minimum front setback. (As measured from the edge of the street
right-of-way line.)
 
All other uses              50 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
Produce stand               20 ft.
Single-family dwellings     50 ft.
 
      (3)   Minimum side setback. (An additional ten feet shall be required on
all side yards which abut a public or private street.)
All other    25 ft.
uses
Bed and
breakfast    20 ft.
inn
Cemetery     25 ft.
Community    25 ft.
center
Day care     15 ft.
home, family
Essential
services,    None
Class 1
Family care  15 ft.
home
Public       25 ft.
library
Public
safety       25 ft.
station
Rooming and
boarding     15 ft.
house
Schools      25 ft.
Single-
family
dwelling     15 ft.
(and
manufactured
homes)
Triplex,     15 ft. or 0 ft. if zero lot line (side yard) development is proposed (see §
quadruplex   155.077)
Two-family   15 ft.
dwellings
 
      (4)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All other uses              40 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
 
      (5)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses 35 ft., except as provided in §
         155.065 of this chapter
 
      (6)   Minimum lot width. (As measured at the required front setback;
however, uses indicated with an asterisk (*) may have no less than 35 feet of
street frontage at the street right-of-way line unless the use is on a corner
lot which requires a minimum of 45 feet of street frontage measured at the
street right-of-way line on one side to permit adequate setback from the
abutting street.)
 
All other uses                                   100 ft.
Day care home, family*                           90 ft.
Essential services, Class 1                      None
Family care home*                                90 ft.
Parks and playgrounds                            None
Rooming and boarding house*                      90 ft.
Single-family dwelling (and manufactured homes)* 90 ft.
 
      (7)   Screening. Screening, in accordance with §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter, shall generally be required when a non-residential use
in this zoning district abuts a residentially developed or undeveloped lot in a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district. Screening may also be required
elsewhere in this chapter.
   (C)   R-10 Residential District.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. (Subject to increase per requirements of County
Health Department.)
All other uses              15,000 sq. ft.
Bed and breakfast inn       12,000 sq. ft.
Day care home, family       10,000 sq. ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
Family care home            10,000 sq. ft.
Multi-family development    1 acre
Parks, playgrounds          None
Rooming and boarding house  10,000 sq. ft.
Schools                     5 acres
Single-family dwelling      10,000 sq. ft.
Triplex, quaduplex          1 acre
Two-family dwelling         15,000 sq. ft. (7,500 per dwelling unit)
 
      (2)   Minimum front setback. (As measured from the edge of the street
right-of-way line.)
All other uses              40 ft.
Day care home, family       40 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
Family care home            40 ft.
Multi-family development    40 ft.
Produce stand               20 ft.
Rooming and boarding houses 40 ft.
Single-family dwelling      40 ft.
Triplex, quadruplex         40 ft.
Two-family dwelling         40 ft.
 
      (3)   Minimum side setback. (An additional ten feet shall be provided on
all side yards which abut a public or private street.)
All other  15 ft.
uses
Bed and
breakfast  12 ft.
inn
Day care
center,    12 ft.
small
group
Essential
services,  None
Class 1
Family     12 ft.
care home
Public
safety     20 ft.
station
Rooming
and        12 ft.
boarding
house
Schools    20 ft.
Single-
family     12 ft.
dwelling
Triplex,   12 ft. or 0 ft. if zero lot line (side yard) development is proposed (see §
quadruplex 155.077)
Two-family 12 ft.
dwelling
 
      (4)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All other uses              30 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
 
      (5)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses 35 ft., except as provided in §
         155.065 of this chapter
 
      (6)   Minimum lot width. (As measured at the required front setback;
however, uses indicated with an asterisk (*) may have no less than 35 feet at
street right-of-way line unless the use is on a corner lot which requires a
minimum of 45 feet of street frontage measured at the street right-of-way line
on one side to permit adequate setback from the abutting street.)
 
All other uses              100 ft.
Day care home, family*      70 ft.
Essential services, Class 1 None
Family care home*           70 ft.
Rooming and boarding house* 70 ft.
Single-family dwelling*     70 ft.
Two-family dwelling*        80 ft.
 
      (7)   Screening. Screening, in accordance with §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter, shall generally be required when a non-residential use
in this zoning district abuts a residentially developed or undeveloped lot in a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district. Screening may also be required
elsewhere in this chapter.
      (8)   Open space.
 
Multi-family development Adequate open space shall be provided for active and
                         passive recreation
 
   (D)   C-B Central Business District.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.
 
All uses None
 
      (2)   Minimum lot width.
 
All uses None
 
      (3)   Minimum front setback.
 
All uses None
 
      (4)   Minimum side setback.
 
All uses None, except 30 ft. shall be required on all side yards which abut a
         residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (5)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All uses None, except 30 ft. shall be required on all lots whose rear yard
         abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (6)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses None
 
      (7)   Screening. As required per §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter.
   (E)   G-B Highway Business District.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.
 
All uses None
 
      (2)   Minimum lot width.
 
All uses None
 
      (3)   Minimum front setback.
 
All uses 30 ft.
 
      (4)   Minimum side setback.
 
         10 ft., except 30 ft. shall be required on all side yards which abut a
All uses public or private street or which abuts a lot located in a residential
         (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (5)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All uses None, except 30 ft. shall be required on all lots whose rear yard
         abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (6)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses 50 ft., except as provided in §
         155.065 of this chapter
 
      (7)   Screening. As required per §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter.
   (F)   M-1 and M-2 Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Minimum lot area.
 
All uses None
 
      (2)   Minimum lot width.
 
All uses None
 
      (3)   Minimum front setback.
 
All uses 50 ft.
 
      (4)   Minimum side setback.
 
         None, except 30 ft. shall be required on all side yards which abut a
All uses public or private street or which abuts a lot located in a residential
         (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (5)   Minimum rear setback.
 
All uses None, except 30 ft. shall be required on all lots whose rear yard
         abuts a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district
 
      (6)   Maximum building height.
 
All uses None
 
      (7)   Screening. As required per §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4.3)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 155.035 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and limit the continued
existence of uses and structures established prior to the effective date of
this chapter (or any amendment subsequent thereto) that do not conform to this
chapter. Any non-conformity created by a change in the classification of
property or the text of these regulations shall be regulated by the provisions
of this subchapter. Many non-conformity’s may continue, but the provisions of
this subchapter are designed to curtail substantial investment in non-
conformity’s and to bring about eventual elimination and/or lessen their impact
upon surrounding conforming uses in order to preserve the integrity of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.1)
§ 155.036 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Non-conforming uses of land or structures, and non-conforming
structures that contain non- conforming uses, may continue only in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Normal structural repair and maintenance may be performed to allow the
continuation of a non-conforming use. Also, a non-conforming use may be re-
established in case of damage or total destruction (to an extent of more than
60% of its assessed value at the time of destruction) due to fire or other
disaster event pursuant to the issuance of a permit by the Board of Adjustment,
as per §
155.242 of this chapter. This shall include, as well, the repair or
reconstruction of any structure housing said non- conforming use or on-site
utility, parking or street infrastructure in support of said non-conforming
use. If said structure was also a non-conforming structure, the reconstruction
shall meet the setback requirements of the applicable district or follow the
procedures of §
155.037 of this chapter when setback requirements cannot be met. An application
must be filed for such building permit no later than 30 days after the use has
been destroyed or damaged; otherwise, the use will not be allowed to be
rebuilt.
   (C)   A non-conforming non-residential use shall not be expanded, nor shall
such a non- conforming use be enlarged by additions to the structure in which
the non-conforming use is located (either attached or detached). However, if a
non-conforming non-residential use can expand within the existing structure, it
may do so as long as the Zoning Administrator determines that the interior
expansion will not have a negative impact upon surrounding conforming uses. Any
occupation of additional lands beyond the boundaries of the lot on which said
non-conforming use is located is prohibited. An existing non-conforming
residential use located in a non-residential district may, however, be enlarged
or altered; provided that, no additional dwelling units result therefrom. Any
such enlargement or alteration shall be in compliance with all yard
requirements of such structures as required in the residential district.
   (D)   A non-conforming use may be changed to another equal or less intense
non-conforming use in accordance with §
155.242 of this chapter. The list of zoning districts in descending order of
restrictiveness shall be:
 
R-A (most restrictive)
R-20
R-10
C-B
G-B
M-1
M-2 (least restrictive)
 
   (E)   Once a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be used for any non-conforming use.
   (F)   If a non-conforming use is abandoned (see definition) for 90 days, the
use shall not be allowed to re-establish. All new uses in said structure shall
thereafter be conforming. If said use is located in a structure which is
destroyed (i.e., received damage to an extent of more than 60% of its assessed
value at the time of destruction), a use may only be allowed to re-establish in
accordance with the zoning regulations in effect in the district in which it is
located. Assessed value shall be determined by using tax assessment records
provided by the Tax Assessor’s office for the year in which the structure was
destroyed.
   (G)   A non-conforming use of land may only be changed to a different
location on the same property in accordance with §
155.242 of this chapter.
   (H)   If a non-conforming manufactured home, located on the same lot as a
principal structure, is occupied by a blood relative of the owner-occupant of
the principal structure, such manufactured home shall be permitted, subject to
§
155.242 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.2)
§ 155.037 NON-CONFORMING PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   A non-conforming structure containing a use permitted in the zoning
district in which it is located may continue only in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Normal repair and maintenance may be performed to allow the
continuation of non- conforming structures.
   (C)   A non-conforming structure may not, under any circumstances, be
enlarged or altered in a way which increases its non-conformity.
   (D)   (1)   If a non-conforming non-residential structure is damaged to an
extent greater than 60% of its assessed value for tax purposes, it shall be
rebuilt only after the issuance of a permit from the Zoning Administrator. A
building permit for reconstruction of such structure must be secured no later
than 90 days from the date of its destruction. In the issuance of said permit,
the Zoning Administrator shall follow these standards.
         (a)   If the structure can be rebuilt on the same lot and meet all
setback requirements, it shall be.
         (b)   If the structure cannot be rebuilt at the same size (ground
floor area) in accordance with the minimum standards of the district in which
it is located, then it shall be placed on the lot in as conforming a manner as
possible.
         (c)   A non-conforming structure shall not be rebuilt in a manner
which increases its non-conformity.
         (d)   A structure rebuilt in accordance with this section shall not
have a gross floor area larger than the structure it replaced unless all
setback requirements are met for the zoning district in which it is located.
         (e)   The reconstruction of a non-conforming structure (at the same or
smaller size) shall require the installation of deficient parking, landscaping
or buffering.
      (2)   Note: division (E) below discusses replacement of non-conforming
manufactured homes.
   (E)   Should a non-conforming structure be moved for any distance on the lot
upon which it is located, if possible, it shall be moved so as to make the
structure conforming. Otherwise, the structure, if moved, shall be placed on
the lot in as conforming a manner as possible.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.3)
§ 155.038 NON-CONFORMING ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   (1)   A non-conforming manufactured home used as a principal
residential structure may be replaced with another manufactured home only if:
         (a)   The replacement is located on an individual lot and not in a
manufactured home park;
         (b)   The replacement manufactured home bears a valid seal indicating
conformance with the 1976 National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.; and
         (c)   The replacement manufactured home is newer in age than the one
it is replacing.
      (2)   The replacement manufactured home must receive a certificate of
occupancy within 60 days of the removal of the original manufactured home.
      (3)   In addition, the replacement manufactured home must meet all the
requirements of §
155.075 of this chapter and must be in compliance with all applicable yard
requirements.
      (4)   A non-conforming accessory use or accessory structure may be
expanded only if the non-conforming features of that use or structure are not
expanded so as to increase the degree of non- conformity.
   (B)   No non-conforming accessory use or accessory structure shall continue
after the principal use or structure is terminated by abandonment, damage or
destruction unless such accessory use or accessory structure, thereafter, is
made to conform to the standards for the zoning district in which it is
located.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.4)
§ 155.039 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, a non-conforming
vacant lot may be developed for any of the uses permitted by these regulations
in the zoning district in which it is located; provided that, the use meets all
applicable yard and setback requirements for the zoning district in which the
lot is located.
   (B)   A non-conforming vacant lot shall not be developed if it could be
combined with an adjoining lot (said lot being owned by the same person and any
or all future assigns) on or after the effective date of these regulations in
order to create a single lot. If said combination, however, results in the
creation of a single lot that is more than one and one-half times the minimum
lot width or area required in the zoning district, then the single lot may be
divided into two lots of equal width and area without being further classified
as non-conforming. For purposes of this section, ADJOINING shall be deemed to
mean the sharing of one or more common lot lines and access to both lots can be
provided by the same street without crossing that street.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, a non-conforming lot may be
developed if, at the effective date of this chapter or any subsequent date upon
which the lot became non-conforming, the lot:
      (1)   Had an area of 20,000 square feet or greater;
      (2)   The subdivision in which the lot was located had received
preliminary plat approval;
      (3)   The subdivision in which the lot was located had received final
plat approval; or
      (4)   The lot was in a subdivision where the preliminary plat was
accepted for review prior to the effective date of this chapter or a vested
right had been granted as per §
155.221 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.5)
§ 155.040 NON-CONFORMING SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In accordance with §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter, certain uses are required to provide screening and/or
landscaping on-site. Except as herein provided, any expansion of an existing
use which is deficient in screening and/or landscaping or any change in
principal use cannot occur without the required screening and/or landscaping
having first been provided on-site. See also §
155.102 of this chapter. The Central Business (C-B) District is exempt from
this requirement.
   (B)   In cases when the non-conformity is a result of an adjoining lot
having been rezoned to a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district from a business
(C-B, G-B) or industrial (M-1, M-2) district, screening shall be provided as in
§§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter, along the adjoining lot line separating different
zoning districts.
   (C)   (1)   An example of this is as follows:
[Image Reserved]
      (2)   Lot A and Lot B are both initially in a G-B Zoning District. Lot B
is subsequently rezoned to a R-10 District. Lot A currently contains an
otherwise conforming commercial structure. The owner of Lot A would like to
expand said structure. Currently, no screening lies between Lot A and Lot B. In
order to meet the screening requirements as herein stated, buffer/screen must
be placed on Lot A along the side yard separating it from Lot B. Screening
requirements are found in §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.6)
§ 155.041 NON-CONFORMING OFF-STREET PARKING AND/OR LOADING.
   (A)   On any lot in any zoning district, except the Central-Business (C-B)
District, which contains a use which does not comply with the off-street
parking and loading regulations contained in §§
155.120 through
155.131 of this chapter, a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued for any
expansion (except as provided in §
155.120(B) of this chapter) or any change of use which would result in a need
to increase the number of off-street parking and/or loading spaces required
(except as herein provided), until the requisite number of off-street parking
spaces and all paving requirements have been met.
   (B)   A certificate of occupancy may be issued when there has been a change
in a principal use and the number of off-street parking spaces required for the
new use (per §§
155.120 through
155.131 of this chapter) is within 10% or ten spaces, whichever is less, of the
number of off-street parking spaces actually provided. An example of this is as
follows: a principal use (Use “A”) is located on a lot with 200 off-street
parking spaces. Use “A” goes out-of-business and is replaced with Use “B”.
Chapter 7 of this chapter requires that Use “B” have 208 spaces. A certificate
of occupancy can be issued for Use “B” (so long as the use is otherwise in
accordance with all applicable requirements of this chapter) as the number of
deficient spaces, right (208-200) is less than the prescribed maximum either 20
(10% of 200) or ten spaces, whichever is less. In this example, eight is less
than either 20 or 10.
   (C)   Such relief may be granted on a one-time only basis per lot or planned
development. In such instances where relief is provided, the additional parking
spaces need not be paved (but shall have a graded gravel, crushed-stone or
similar dust-reducing surface) if the parking lot prior to said expansion was
not paved.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.7)
§ 155.042 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Subject to the restrictions of this subchapter, non-conforming signs
that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of this chapter may be
continued.
   (B)   No person may engage in any activity that causes an increase in the
extent of non-conformity of a non-conforming sign or causes a previously
conforming sign to become non-conforming.
   (C)   A non-conforming sign may not be moved or replaced, except to bring
the sign into complete conformity with this chapter. Once a non-conforming sign
is removed from the premises or otherwise taken down or moved, said sign may
only be replaced with a sign which is in conformance with the terms of this
chapter.
   (D)   Minor repairs and maintenance of non-conforming signs necessary to
keep a non-conforming sign in sound condition are permitted. If repair or
maintenance of a non-conforming sign results in the removal of the sign frame
structure for any length of time, the replaced sign frame structure and any
copy placed on it shall be in conformance with this chapter.
   (E)   If a non-conforming sign is destroyed by natural causes, it may not
thereafter be repaired, reconstructed or replaced, except in conformity with
all the provisions of this chapter, and the remnants of the former sign
structure shall be cleared from the land. For purposes of this section, a non-
conforming sign shall be considered “destroyed” if it receives damage to an
extent of more than 60% of the cost of replacing the sign copy. A special
exception could be sought for a particular historic sign as contained in
division (K) below.
   (F)   Notwithstanding other provisions contained in this section, the
message of a non-conforming sign may be changed so long as this does not create
any new non-conformities.
   (G)   (1)   If a non-conforming sign which advertises a business, service,
commodity, accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no
longer operating or being offered or conducted, that sign shall be deemed
abandoned and shall be removed or brought into compliance by the sign owner,
property owner or other party having control over such sign within 30 days
after the use has ceased operation or the service or commodity has ceased being
offered.
      (2)   If there is a change of use or name of business on a particular
piece of property, and there were one or more on-premises signs which
advertised the business, any new signs placed for the new use or business name
must meet all sign requirements for the underlying zoning district. An example
of this is as follows: a restaurant has an on-premises free-standing sign
having an area of 140 square feet. The maximum allowable area for said sign in
that particular zoning district is 100 square feet. If said restaurant ceases
operation and is replaced by another principal use or by another restaurant
(either of which uses new sign structures), any new free-standing sign
advertising the new principal use or business name shall have a maximum area of
100 square feet. If the same sign structure used to advertise the former
restaurant is used to advertise the new use, said sign structure may remain.
   (H)   If a non-conforming sign remains blank for a continuous period of six
months, that sign shall be deemed abandoned and shall, within 30 days after
such abandonment, be altered to comply with this chapter or be removed by the
sign owner, owner of the property where the sign is located, or other person
having control over such sign. For purposes of this chapter, a sign shall be
deemed “blank” if:
      (1)   It advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodations,
attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or being
offered or conducted;
      (2)   The advertising message it displays becomes illegible in whole or
substantial part; or
      (3)   It does not contain an advertising message. (For such purposes, the
terms “Sign For Rent”, “Sign For Lease”, “Sign For Sale” and the like shall not
be deemed to be an advertising message.)
   (I)   (1)   Any non-conforming advertising sign which is located in a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district shall be removed within seven
years following the effective date of this chapter, except as provided in
division (J) below. Any such sign which becomes non-conforming due to its
location within a particular residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district after the
effective date of this chapter (due to a subsequent change in the zoning map)
shall be removed within seven years following the date the sign becomes non-
conforming, except as provided in division (J) below.
      (2)   All other advertising signs which are non-conforming by virtue of
their height, setback, spacing (i.e., distance between two advertising signs)
or location in a zoning district other than a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10)
district, shall not be required to be removed and may continue subject to all
other applicable portions of this subchapter.
   (J)   G.S. § 136-131.1 requires that “just compensation” be paid upon
removal of certain outdoor advertising signs adjacent to the highway on the
national system of interstate and defense highways or a highway on the federal-
aid primary highway system for which a valid permit has been issued. Division
(I) above shall not require that any sign be removed if compensation must be
paid upon removal of such sign due to any state or federal law that mandates
such form of “just compensation” upon removal. Should any such state or federal
requirement become inoperative or otherwise fail to apply to a given sign, then
such sign shall be removed within five and one-half years of such state or
federal requirement becoming inoperative or otherwise failing to apply to such
sign.
   (K)   Special exceptions may be sought for a specific sign having historic,
significant social value or other justifiable reason from the Board of
Adjustment, as contained in §§
155.243(C) and
155.244 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.8)
§ 155.043 NON-CONFORMING JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   Any junk yard less than one acre in area and located in a district not
permitting junk yards shall be removed entirely within four years from the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Any junk yard one acre or more in area and located in a district not
permitting junk yards may remain in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter; provided, however, §
155.242 of this chapter shall not apply to junk yards.
   (C)   Any junk yard which does not meet the setback requirements for outdoor
storage upon the effective date of this chapter shall meet such requirements
within two years of such effective date. For the purpose of this section, the
AREA OF A JUNK YARD shall be the area within the continuous external boundary
formed by the limits of the ground surface covered by junk materials.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6.9)
SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.055 APPLICATION.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.056 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein,
except for street widening.
   (B)   Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.057 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal building
and its customary accessory buildings on any lot, except in the case of a
specially designed complex of institutional, residential, commercial or
industrial buildings in an appropriate zoning district, (i.e., school campus,
cluster housing, shopping center, industrial park) as permitted in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.058 FENCES OR WALLS PERMITTED.
   Except as otherwise noted, fences or walls are permitted in the various
districts subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   In residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) districts.
      (1)   Fences or walls consisting of either masonry, rock, wire or wooden
material and hedges may be installed on the boundaries of any residential lot;
except that, the height of such fencing or screening shall be limited to a
maximum height of four feet between the street right-of-way line and the normal
building line for that section adjacent to the street. Fencing and hedges on
all other boundaries of residential property shall be limited to a maximum of
eight feet in height, except as otherwise specifically stipulated herein.
      (2)   No electrical fences, concertina or barbed-wire fences shall be
permitted, except for “invisible” pet fences.
   (B)   In all other districts.
      (1)   Maximum height shall be 12 feet; except that, no maximum shall
apply to jails or prisons where said walls or fence is installed behind any
required setbacks.
      (2)   No electrical fences, concertina or barbed-wire fences shall be
permitted, except for “invisible” pet fences or fences/walls associated with
jails/prisons.
   (C)   Correctional facility, public utility structure. There shall be no
maximum height for any fence located within the required setback of any
correctional facility or public utility structure.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.059 LOT TO ABUT A DEDICATED STREET.
   No lots may be created after the effective date of this chapter which do not
have at least 35 feet of dedicated street right-of-way frontage, except as
follows.
   (A)   A lot not having 35 feet of dedicated street right-of-way frontage may
be created if located entirely within a planned shopping center or office park.
   (B)   A lot fronting onto a cul-de-sac shall have at least 35 feet of
dedicated street frontage.
   (C)   A single-family residence (including a manufactured home or modular
home) may be constructed or located on a lot which was recorded on or before
the effective date of this chapter which does not abut a dedicated street
right-of-way; provided, the lot has access to a dedicated street by an easement
at least 20 feet in width for the use of the dwelling established on such lot;
and, further provided that, such easement is maintained in a condition passable
for automobiles and service and emergency vehicles. This easement may not be
extended to provide access to any other lots or to any other residence not
having frontage on a dedicated street.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.060 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING.
   (A)   No more than one principal structure devoted to a residential use
shall be permitted on a lot, except as:
      (1)   Part of a multi-family development;
      (2)   As a private residential quarters;
      (3)   As a temporary manufactured home as provided in §
155.064 of this chapter;
      (4)   On any lot having an area of greater than 20 acres, a second
residential structure may be developed; provided, such dwelling is not designed
for year-round occupancy; or
      (5)   As a manufactured home second dwelling occupied by an immediate
family member (father, mother, son, daughter, father-in-law, mother-in-law,
daughter-in-law, son-in-law, step-son, step- daughter, brother, sister,
grandchildren, nieces and nephews) in accordance with §
155.075 of this chapter.
   (B)   More than one principal structure devoted to a non-residential use may
be located on a lot; provided that, access is available from a public street or
a 20-foot easement is maintained from a public street to each building for use
by service or emergency vehicles.
   (C)   In the C-B Zoning District only, a lot may contain both residential
and business uses in one or more principal structures.
   (D)   Only one principal non-residential use per lot shall be allowed,
except as part of a planned shopping center, office building or similar planned
multi-tenant development as permitted in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.061 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Temporary structures and uses, when in compliance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the town shall be
allowed.
   (B)   The following temporary structures and uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Construction trailers used in conjunction with construction
projects; provided that, the following conditions are met.
         (a)   Such construction trailers may be located at a building site
where there is a valid building permit for the construction project, or, in the
case of a residential subdivision, a valid building permit for at least one of
the residential units being constructed.
         (b)   All construction trailers shall be located at least ten feet off
any street right-of-way and not be placed in any required rear or side yard
setback.
      (2)   In addition to construction trailers, at any construction site for
a construction project valued at $1,000,000 or more, one or more security guard
houses may be installed. Use of such structures may include overnight stay;
provided, adequate sanitary facilities are provided and the same conditions for
construction trailers (divisions (B)(1)(a) and (B)(1)(b) above) are met.
   (C)   (1)   Certain uses of a temporary nature (i.e., less than 45 days in
duration and held no more than three times per year at any particular
location), which would not otherwise be permitted in a particular zoning
district are permitted for the following temporary uses without a permit.
         (a)   Christmas trees sales;
         (b)   Revivals; and
         (c)   Shows for civic and youth organizations (i.e., 4-H shows).
      (2)   The permit shall be valid for a specified period only, not to
exceed 45 days in duration.
      (3)   All other such temporary uses not otherwise listed may only be
granted a temporary zoning permit only after the town has made the following
determinations:
         (a)   The proposed use will not materially endanger the public,
health, welfare and safety; and
         (b)   The proposed use will not have a substantial negative effect on
adjoining properties.
      (4)   In approving such a temporary permit, the Town Council may
authorize conditions regarding duration of the use, hours of operation,
signage, lighting and the like and such conditions shall be made part of the
permit issued. Violations of such conditions shall be considered a violation of
this chapter. The Town Council may, prior to issuing said permit, conduct a
public hearing. Notice of this public hearing shall be as provided in §
155.172 of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Structures, whether temporary or permanent, located in a
subdivision containing 25 or more lots and used as sales offices for the
subdivision development are permitted.
      (2)   Any temporary structure used as a sales office shall be located on
a lot which is in compliance with the regulations of this chapter and shall
meet all yard requirements for the applicable zoning district. At least five
off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the lot to accommodate persons
using the sales office.
      (3)   A manufactured home may be used as a temporary sales office;
provided that, the following conditions are met.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be provided with underpinning, from
the bottom of the walls to the ground, made of vinyl, pre-painted aluminum
material or other material specifically manufactured for mobile homes.
         (b)   Landscaping shall be provided to create an aesthetically
pleasing appearance.
         (c)   At the completion of the sales in a tract, or two years from the
date the temporary sales office began operation, whichever is sooner, said
sales office shall cease operation unless the Zoning Administrator determines
that substantial progress is being made in the selling and/or marketing of the
lots and/or homes in the subdivision. In such case, one or more extensions
(each not to exceed one year in duration) may be so authorized by the Zoning
Administrator. If a temporary structure is used as the sales office, it shall
be removed after its use as a sales office is terminated. Immediately after the
structure is removed, the lot shall be returned to a natural state. Any paved
or graveled driveway and/or parking area associated with the sales office shall
also be removed. All bare soil areas on the lot shall be returned to a natural
vegetative state (reseeded or sodded) immediately after removal of the sales
office and driveway/parking area.
      (4)   If a permanent residential structure is used as the sales office,
future use of said structure shall be for residential purposes.
   (E)   (1)   Manufactured homes may be allowed on a temporary basis in a
zoning district in which such use is not listed as a permitted use, if a
disaster occurs which results in an occupied, single-family dwelling being
destroyed (i.e., it receives damage greater than 60% of its tax value as
indicated on the most current tax listings). In this instance a manufactured
home may be placed on the lot containing the dwelling unit which was destroyed.
The purpose of allowing such manufactured home on said lot is to give the
occupants of the destroyed dwelling unit a place to live while a new dwelling
unit is being constructed or damage to the original dwelling unit is being
repaired. If a manufactured home is used for such an occurrence, it is subject
to the following conditions.
         (a)   Such manufactured home shall be located in the rear yard, if
possible. If the manufactured home cannot be located in the rear yard, it may
be placed in the front yard. The manufactured home shall be located no closer
than 15 feet to another principal residential structure on another lot and no
closer than ten feet to any lot line.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall be given the authority to issue a
zoning permit for such temporary use on a one-time basis only for a period of
up to nine months. Such permit may be renewed on a one-time only basis (for a
period of no greater than nine months) by the Town Council, if it is determined
that:
            1.   Construction of a new dwelling unit is proceeding in a
diligent manner;
            2.   The granting of such permit will not materially endanger the
public health, welfare or safety;
            3.   The location of the manufactured home on the site does not
have a negative effect on abutting properties; and
            4.   The manufactured home must be removed from the site within 30
days of the date a certificate of occupancy is issued for the newly constructed
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Notification of the Town Council public hearing shall be as
provided in §
155.245 of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Manufactured homes may be allowed on a temporary basis in
connection with construction of a permanent structure upon the same property
for business, educational, religious and similar uses in districts where such
businesses, schools, religious institutions and the like are allowed as a
permitted use in the district, but will be subject to review by the Town
Council. The purpose of allowing a manufactured home on said lot is to give the
owners of the property a place to conduct business while a new structure or
building is being constructed.
      (2)   If a manufactured home is used on such a temporary basis, it is
subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Such manufactured home shall not be placed in the front yard and
shall be located no closer than 15 feet to another principal structure on
another lot and no closer than ten feet to any lot line.
         (b)   The manufactured home will only be used for the purpose
requested and for which the permit is issued.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit for such
temporary use for a period of one year. Such permit may be renewed for one year
periods by the Town Council, if it is determined that:
            1.   Construction of the permanent building or structure is
proceeding in a diligent manner;
            2.   The granting of such permit will not materially endanger the
public health, safety or welfare; and
            3.   The location of the manufactured home on the site does not
have a negative effect on abutting properties.
      (3)   Notification of the Board of Adjustment public hearing shall be as
provided in §
155.245 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.062 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   In recognition of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, it is the
intent of the town to allow communication providers the opportunity to locate
telecommunications towers and related facilities within the town in order to
provide an adequate level of service to its customers while protecting the
health, safety and welfare of town citizens.
      (2)   Wireless towers may be considered undesirable with other types of
uses, most notably residential, therefore special regulations are necessary to
ensure that any adverse affects to existing and future development are
mitigated.
      (3)   Accordingly, the Town Council finds that regulations related to
telecommunications towers are warranted and necessary:
         (a)   To direct the location of communication towers in the town;
         (b)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential
adverse impacts of telecommunications towers;
         (c)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunications towers
through careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative
camouflaging techniques;
         (d)   To accommodate the growing need for telecommunication towers to
residents and businesses in the town;
         (e)   To promote and encourage shared use/co-location of existing and
new communication towers as a primary option rather than construction of
additional single-use towers;
         (f)   To consider the public health and safety of telecommunication
towers; and to avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setbacks; and
         (g)   To avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower
failure through engineering and careful siting of telecommunication towers.
   (B)   (1)   Telecommunications towers and facilities are allowed as a
conditional use in the R-A, R-20, R-10, C-B, G-B and M-1 Zoning Districts;
provided that, the supplemental regulations of §§
155.023(LL), (MM) and (NN) and
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter are met, and that the Town Council has issued a
conditional use permit or amendment to a conditional use permit, as per §§
155.170 through
155.181 of this chapter.
      (2)   Telecommunications towers and facilities are allowed by right in
the M-2 Industrial Zoning District; provided that, the supplemental regulations
of §§
155.023(LL), (MM) and (NN) and
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter are met.
   (C)   (1)   Telecommunication towers can be denied on the basis of negative
influence on property values or on aesthetic concerns; provided that, there is
evidence to prove the impact on adjacent property owners will be significant.
As per the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Town Council must clearly state
the reasoning and available evidence of the impact on adjacent property values
if the request is denied on this basis.
      (2)   The following factors may be used to evaluate a tower for aesthetic
reasons:
         (a)   To protect the view in scenic areas, unique natural features,
scenic roadways and the like;
         (b)   To prevent the concentration of towers in one specific area; and
         (c)   The height, design, placement and other characteristics of the
tower can be modified to have a less intrusive visual impact on the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.063 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Accessory structures, except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter,
shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Where the accessory structure is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
section applicable to the principal structure.
   (B)   Accessory structures (excluding, mailboxes, newspaper boxes, walls,
fences, birdhouses, flag poles, pump covers and doghouses under 15 square feet
or less in gross floor area) shall not be erected in any front yard. Private
garages are subject to the requirements listed in division (D) below. Detached
accessory buildings may be located in the required rear or side yard, except no
such structure shall be located closer than ten feet from any rear or side yard
line, but in the case of corner lots, such buildings and structures shall be
set back at least 25 feet from any side street right-of-way. Such structures
shall also be at least five feet from any other building on the same lot. In no
instance shall an accessory structure be located within a dedicated easement or
right-of-way.
   (C)   Mailboxes, newspaper boxes, birdhouses, flagpoles and pump covers may
be placed in any front, side or rear yard. No zoning permit is needed for these
structures.
   (D)   Private garages, designed primarily to store an automobile, may be
placed in any non-required front, side or rear yard. Where a rear lot line
measures 75 feet or less, no such structure shall be located closer than zero
feet from any side yard line or ten feet from the rear yard line. Where a rear
lot line measures more than 75 feet, such structure shall not be located closer
than ten feet from any rear or side yard line and at least five feet from any
building on the same lot.
   (E)   Fences, walls and hedges must meet the requirements of §
155.058 of this chapter.
   (F)   Doghouses and/or fenced pens are permitted in the rear yard. Such
structure shall meet the side and rear yard lot requirements of the applicable
zoning district. No zoning permit is required if the doghouse is 15 square feet
or less in gross floor area and/or the pen is not larger than ten feet by ten
feet.
   (G)   On any lot containing a principal residential use, no accessory
structure shall be permitted that involves or requires any external
construction features which are not primarily residential in nature or
character.
   (H)   An accessory building may not exceed the height of the principal
structure.
   (I)   (1)   On any lot containing a principal residential use, the maximum
size of any accessory structures (excluding outdoor swimming pools or tennis
courts) shall not exceed one-half the heated ground floor area of the principal
structure or 750 square feet, whichever is greater.
      (2)   On a lot containing an area of one or greater, the maximum
permitted area of accessory structures (excluding outdoor swimming pools or
tennis courts) shall not exceed one-half the heated ground floor area of the
principal building.
   (J)   Satellite dish antennas shall be considered on accessory structure and
shall be regulated as follows.
      (1)   Satellite dishes that are one meter or less in size are preempted
from all local zoning, building and similar regulations. No permit is needed
for their installation.
      (2)   Satellite dishes that are over one meter in size, and no larger
than eight feet in diameter are allowed unless the applicant can demonstrate
the need for a larger size. See also divisions (J)(5), (J)(6) and (J)(7) below.
      (3)   Satellite dishes shall not exceed a height of 15 feet.
      (4)   All satellite dishes must be installed and grounded properly.
      (5)   (a)   Satellite dish antennas over one meter in size and located in
a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district shall be located in the rear
yard only and shall maintain a ten-foot setback from all side and rear lot
lines. The Board of Adjustment may grant a special exception to allow the dish
antenna to be located within the side or front yard if it determines that:
            1.   The satellite dish cannot feasibly be located and be operated
efficiently if located in the rear yard; and
            2.   The proposed site would have the least impact on adjacent
properties.
         (b)   If the Board of Adjustment does allow the placement of a
satellite dish in a front or rear yard, landscaping will be required along the
antenna’s non-reception window axes. Such treatments along the non-reception
window axes shall consist of evergreen plantings designed to create an opaque
screen within four years. Other screening may be required along the reception
axis.
      (6)   Satellite dishes over one meter in size whose reflective surface is
solid shall be painted a subdued or natural color.
      (7)   Satellite dishes over one meter in size shall not be located on a
roof, unless the satellite dish is an accessory structure associated with a
business or industrial use located in the C-B, G-B, M-1 or M-2 Zoning
Districts.
   (K)   Under no circumstances may a vehicle (automobile, truck, SUV, motor
home) or trailer (RV, camper) designed to be transported by a vehicle be used
as an accessory structure in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district.
   (L)   Ham radio facilities and two-way communication facilities for
governmental and business (for use in their business only) communications shall
be deemed accessory uses; provided, no transmitter or antenna structure exceeds
100 feet in height. Any such tower shall meet the applicable setback
requirements for the underlying zoning district, unless such tower is located
in a residential district. In residential zoning districts (R-A, R-20, R-10),
the setback in all directions for such towers shall be a distance equal to the
height of the tower.
   (M)   In cases where the rear lot line of a lot containing a principal non-
residential use abuts a lot in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning district,
a minimum of a 20-foot rear setback shall be required for the accessory
structure/use.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.064 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES.
   A structure constructed as a manufactured home may only be used as a
residential structure, except when serving as a manufactured home sales office
for a subdivision development or as a construction trailer as per §
155.061(C) of this chapter. In addition, manufactured homes may be permitted on
a temporary basis for business, educational, religious and similar uses as per
§
155.061(E) of this chapter. In no instance may a manufactured home be used for
any other non-residential purposes.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.065 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the height of a structure shall be the
vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of the finished grade at the
front of the structure to the highest point of the structure.
   (B)   The maximum heights as indicated in the various districts may be
exceeded for the following uses: roof equipment not intended for human
occupancy and which is accessory to the structure upon which it is placed, such
as skylights, transmissions or television towers, housing for elevators,
stairways, water tanks, ventilating fans, air conditional equipment or similar
equipment, steeples, spires, belfries, cupolas or chimneys; radio and
television antennas.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.066 CONSTRUCTION BEGUN PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designed use of any building or structure upon which a building
permit was secured prior to the adoption of this chapter, so long as said
building permit remains valid.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.13)
§ 155.067 USES NOT EXPRESSLY PERMITTED OR CONDITIONAL.
   (A)   No building or structure, sign or land shall hereafter be used,
erected or occupied and no building or structure shall be erected, expanded or
moved except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter. This chapter
specifies uses which are allowed in each zone.
   (B)   Uses designated as “permitted uses” are allowed in a zone as a matter
of right. Uses designated as “conditional uses” are allowed only after approval
by the Town Council pursuant to §§
155.170 through
155.181 of this chapter.
   (C)   Certain uses pre-existing the adoption of this chapter are allowed to
remain as non-conforming uses in accordance with §§
155.035 through
155.043 of this chapter. Temporary uses are allowed in accordance with §
155.061 of this chapter. Unless a use is allowed as a “permitted”,
“conditional”, “non-conforming use” or “temporary use”, then such use is
expressly prohibited in that zone by this chapter.
   (D)   It is recognized that new types of land use will develop and forms of
land use not anticipated may seek to locate in the town. In order to provide
for such changes and contingencies, a determination as to the appropriate
classification of any new or unlisted form of land use shall be made as
follows.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination when a use can
reasonably be interpreted to fit into a use category where like or similar uses
are described. Interpretations made by the Zoning Administrator may be ratified
by the Planning Board at a regularly scheduled meeting.
      (2)   When a use cannot be reasonably fitted into a use category where
like or similar uses are described, the Planning Board shall review and
recommend a use district to the Town Council for consideration, without a
formal amendment to this chapter; provided that, the proposed use is similar to
and compatible with those uses permitted in the district in question, and which
is consistent with the purposes of this chapter. The Town Council shall make
such determination at a regularly scheduled public meeting, and a record shall
be kept, by the Zoning Administrator, of each additional use(s) allowed and
shall be kept for public inspection.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.068 YARDS AND SETBACKS ON IRREGULAR LOTS, CORNER LOTS AND THROUGH LOTS.
   The location of required front, side and rear yards on irregularly shaped
lots shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator. The determination will be
based on the spirit and intent of this chapter to achieve an appropriate
spacing and location of buildings and structures on individual lots. (See
definition of “front yard” in §
155.007 of this chapter.)
   (A)   Front yards and rear yards on corner lots. On corner lots, the front
yard shall be measured perpendicular from the street lot line having the
shortest linear footage. If both street lot lines have equal linear footage and
no principal structure is located on the lot, the property owner shall
determine the location of the front yard. On lots having equal frontage and
where a principal structure is already located on such lot, the front yard
shall be based on the architectural orientation of the house. Once the front
yard is determined, the rear yard shall be the yard opposite the front yard. A
graphic example of this is as follows:
[Image Reserved]
   (B)   Front yards and rear yards and setbacks on through lots which abut two
streets. On through lots, the required front and rear yards shall each equal or
exceed the greater of either the required front or rear yard setback which
would normally be applied in that zoning district. For example, if a through
lot were located in a zoning district which normally required a 50-foot front
setback and a 40-foot rear setback, both front and rear setbacks would have to
equal or exceed thirty (50) feet. For the purpose of placing accessory
structures, however, the rear yard shall be deemed to be the yard opposite the
street-side yard which the architectural front of the building faces. For the
purpose of placing a principal residence, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
require the architectural front of the building to be oriented similar to
residences on either side. A graphic example of this is as follows:
[Image Reserved]
EXAMPLE: Regulations for a single-family dwelling in the R-A Zoning District:
Front setback: 50 feet
Rear setback: 40 feet
As this lot abuts both Main Street and Top Court, 50-foot setbacks in each yard
are required.
   (C)   Front, rear, and side yards and setbacks on lots which abut three
streets. If a lot is abutted by streets on three sides, the front setback
requirement for the zoning district shall be applied only on the two opposing
street fronts. The required setback on the third street front must be the side
yard requirement, plus ten feet, since it is a corner lot. The yard opposite
the third street front must be at least the minimum side yard requirement for
the zoning district.
[Image Reserved]
EXAMPLE: Regulations for a single-family dwelling in the R-A Zoning District:
Front setback: 50 feet
Rear setback: 40 feet
Side yard: 15 feet
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.069 VIBRATION.
   No established use in any district shall be operated so as to generate
inherent or recurring ground vibrations detectable at the property line which
create a nuisance to any person of ordinary sensitivities on another property.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.070 NOISE.
   (A)   Every use of land shall be operated in such a way that regularly
recurring noises are not disturbing or unreasonably loud and do not cause
injury, detriment or nuisance to any person of ordinary sensitivities.
   (B)   Every non-residential use in a business (C-B, G-B) or industrial (M-1,
M-2) district which adjoins a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district must be
operated in such a way that any noise which may be detected by the human senses
without instruments at the district boundary line is no louder than the noise
which could be expected from uses permitted in those districts.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.071 ODOR.
   Every use of land shall be operated in such a way that regularly recurring
odors are not disturbing and do not cause injury, detriment or nuisance to any
person of ordinary sensitivities on another property.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.072 PARKING OF COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles. For purposes of this chapter, a recreational
vehicle shall not be deemed a dwelling unit and the usage of a recreation
vehicle for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes and the connection of
such vehicle to utility services (other than for periodic maintenance and/or
repair purposes) shall be prohibited unless the vehicle is located in a camping
and recreational vehicle park so designed to accommodate recreation vehicles.
These vehicles, as well as all boats, watercraft and trailers, must be parked
or stored in the rear yard meeting all setback requirements in the district in
which the property is located.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles.
      (1)   On any lot of less of than one acre in size which is located in a
residential subdivision of more than ten lots, commercial vehicles which may be
parked on an overnight basis shall be limited to school buses, vans and pick-up
trucks (if no greater than 5,000 pounds). This requirement shall not be
interpreted to prohibit vehicles from loading and unloading household goods in
any residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district for a period of up to 24 hours, nor
shall this restrict the overnight parking of freight truck tractors without
trailers on any such lot.
      (2)   Except for occasional vehicles loading or unloading household goods
in a residential subdivision (U-Haul, moving van), all vehicles must be parked
off the street right-of-way.
      (3)   No residentially-developed lot may be used as the base of operation
for any freight hauling truck.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.073 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
[Image Reserved]
§ 155.074 YARD AND GARAGE SALES.
   Yard, garage, tag, patio and apartment sales are permitted without a permit,
as an accessory use on any residentially-, institutionally- or commercially-
developed lot in any district. Such sales on residentially- developed lots
shall be limited to no more than three days per calendar month on the same lot.
Institutional and commercial yard sales are permitted only with the land
owner’s permission. Additional regulations can be found in §
155.151 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.075 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes shall bear a valid seal indicating conformance
with the 1976 National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
   (B)   These homes shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   The structure shall have all wheels, axles, transporting lights and
towing apparatus removed; or, if any of these items cannot be removed, they
shall be screened from view with landscaping or fencing if it is still visible
after the unit is underpinned.
      (2)   The structure must be a minimum of 1,200 square feet in size (24
feet by 50 feet or 28 feet by 43 feet).
      (3)   The structure shall not be occupied until the following has been
installed according to the state’s Building Code:
         (a)   Continuously dug and poured concrete footing around the
perimeter;
         (b)   Block piers on concrete footing (piers must have mortar between
blocks);
         (c)   Continuous brick foundation from top of frame to ground,
unpierced, except for required ventilation and an access door(s) on concrete
footing; and
         (d)   Porches, decks, ramps or steps shall be wood and/or masonry with
required guardrails, handrails and pickets.
      (4)   All tie downs must be set in concrete.
      (5)   The roof of the home shall have shingle roofing materials with a
minimum pitch of 3/12 and have a 12-inch or more (excluding gutters) overhang.
      (6)   A final inspection or certificate of occupancy from the county must
be given to the Zoning Administrator prior to occupancy and electric
connection.
      (7)   The Board of Adjustment shall not grant any variance or special
exception of any of the requirements for manufactured homes in this section.
      (8)   All manufactured homes shall be oriented on a lot with the longer
side of the structure facing the street-of-way, thus resulting in the front of
the manufactured home facing the street. The setbacks shall be observed, as
with conventional housing.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.076 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS, VIDEO STORES AND HOTELS/MOTELS.
   (A)   The intent of this section shall be to set forth the appropriate
locations in which adult establishments or sexually oriented businesses may be
established within the town’s zoning jurisdiction and to provide for certain
development standards. Adult establishments, because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when they are located near a residential zoning district or
certain other districts which permit residential, eleemosynary, educational or
recreational uses. Studies have shown that lower property values and increased
crime rates tend to accompany and are brought about by the concentration of
adult establishments. The Town Council finds that regulation of these uses is
necessary to ensure that these adverse effects do not contribute to the
blighting of surrounding neighborhoods and to protect the integrity of the
town’s schools, churches, child care centers and public parks and playgrounds
which are typical areas in which juveniles congregate.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all “adult establishments” as outlined in
G.S. § 14.202.10 and shall also apply to adult video stores and adult hotels
and motels, as defined in §
155.007 of this chapter.
   (C)   Adult establishments shall be permitted with a conditional use permit
subject to the requirements found in §
155.023 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall have no authority to modify or grant
variances from the separation distance requirements imposed by this section.
   (E)   After the effective date, the establishment of a residential zone or
protected use subsequent to the lawful commencement of an adult establishment
will not render the adult establishment non- conforming.
   (F)   Should any provision of this chapter de declared invalid or
unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof which
is not specifically declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
   (G)   This section took effect and was in force from and after the date of
its adoption.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.077 ZERO LOT LINE (SIDE YARDS) DEVELOPMENTS; ZERO SIDE SETBACKS.
   (A)   Zero side setback development may be used in any residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) zoning district which permits single-family uses if the development
contains at least two dwelling units.
   (B)   Side yard setbacks of zero are permitted only where the lots on both
side of the affected lot line are part of a zero side setback development.
   (C)   The minimum separation distance between residential buildings located
on any one lot shall be ten feet.
   (D)   The end units of zero lot line developments shall observe the side
yard setback for the zoning district.
   (E)   (1)   Additions and expansions to existing zero lot line developments,
quadruplexes, triplexes and the like are allowed, as long as the addition does
not reduce the front yard setback which currently exists.
      (2)   Thus, the front facade line of an existing development would be the
furthermost forward point to which any front addition could expand.
      (3)   Expansions into side yards are permitted as long as the unit can
meet existing setback requirements for the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Rear additions or expansions, which are beyond the furthermost rear
projection of the existing development, shall be permitted only as long as the
unit can meet existing rear setback requirements.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.078 FRONT YARD SETBACKS FOR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The front yard setback requirements of this chapter for dwellings
shall not apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings
located wholly or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed
dwelling, and on the same side of the same block, and in the same zoning
district and fronting on the same street as such lot, is less than the minimum
required front yard depth.
   (B)   In such case, the setback on such lots may be less than the required
setback, but not less than the average of the existing setbacks on the
aforementioned lots or a distance of ten feet from the street right-of-way
line, whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.079 OUTDOOR LIGHTING AND REFLECTIVITY.
   (A)   Outdoor lighting shall be located so as to not endanger motorists
traveling on any street.
   (B)   The reflectivity of any structure constructed after the effective date
of this chapter shall in no way hamper or cause endangerment to motorists
traveling on any street.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.080 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   A unified and planned group residential development (i.e., a cluster
subdivision, row housing, condominiums, apartments) for a site in single
ownership may be permitted without the customary division of land into
standards sized individual lots.
   (B)   Individual uses and structures in a group housing development need not
comply with the specific building location, height or size, lot size or open
space requirements of the district in which it is located provided the basic
spirit and intent of such district regulations are complied with.
   (C)   The procedure for approval of group development plans shall consist of
the submission of a scaled design plan showing the proposed layout, including
the location of buildings, driveways, off-street parking spaces and
recreational areas. Furthermore, an approved project must be started within one
year and be completed within a reasonable period of time after its approval.
   (D)   A proposed project must be designed by competent professional persons
so as to create an attractive residential environment, guarantee permanent
retention of open space and ensure maintenance.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading requirements listed in §§
155.120 through
155.131 of this chapter must be met.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.081 AWNINGS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No awning or canopy shall be erected, suspended or maintained over or
across any street or public sidewalk by any person until a permit therefor has
been duly issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   A person desiring a permit, as required in this section, shall
file an application with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Such application shall be accompanied by drawings and
specifications indicating the location, place of erection, suspension or
maintenance, method of fastening and full dimensions.
   (C)   A permit for the erection, suspension or maintenance of an awning or
canopy issued pursuant to an application filed as provided in this section
shall indicate the location, place of erection, suspension or maintenance,
method of fastening and full dimension and shall include such other terms and
conditions as the Zoning Administrator may deem proper.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, suspend or maintain over
or across any sidewalk or public street, or any part of either, any awning or
canopy unless such awning or canopy is securely fastened to a building and
firmly supported by adequate metal braces and brackets.
   (E)   No part of any awning or canopy shall be lower than seven feet from
the surface of the sidewalk or street, nor shall any part of an awning or
canopy extend more than seven feet from the front of the building to which it
is fastened.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING
§ 155.095 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of these screening requirements shall be to separate
certain zoning districts from other zoning districts or to screen certain uses
in order to minimize potential nuisances such as the transmission of noise,
dust, odor, litter and glare of lights; to reduce the visual impact of
unsightly aspects of adjacent development; to provide for the separation of
spaces; and to establish a sense of privacy.
   (B)   Screening and buffering shall be required under the following
situations listed in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4)
§ 155.096 BETWEEN CERTAIN ZONING DISTRICTS AND STRUCTURES AND BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Screening and buffering is required in the following circumstances.
   (B)   The standards for these screen/buffers are found in §
155.100 of this chapter.
      (1)   When a lot in an industrial district (M-1 or M-2) abuts a lot in a
residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district, screening must be provided on the
industrial lot in the form of a Grade 6 screen/buffer, as illustrated in Figure
6, meeting the requirements of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter;
      (2)   When a lot in a business (C-B, G-B) district abuts a lot in a
residential district (R-A, R-20, R-10), screening must be provided on the
business lot in the form of a Grade 5 screen/buffer, as illustrated in Figure
5, meeting the requirements of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter;
      (3)   When a lot in an residential district (R-A, R-20, R-10) abuts
another lot which contains a multi-family development, screening must be
provided on the lot containing said multi-family development in the form of a
Grade 4 screen/buffer, as illustrated in Figure 4, meeting the requirements of
§§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter;
      (4)   When a lot in a residential district (R-A, R-20, R-10) abuts
another lot which contains a planned unit development where the dwelling units
are attached and there are more than six units in a building, screening must be
provided on the lot containing said planned unit development in the form of a
Grade 4 screen/buffer, as illustrated in Figure 4, and meeting the requirements
of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter;
      (5)   When a lot containing a use subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit in an industrial district (M-1 or M-2) abuts a lot in a
business district (C-B, G-B), or the Town Council may stipulate in the
conditional use permit that a version of a Grade 1, 2 or 3 screen/buffer must
be provided on the industrial lot meeting the requirements of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter must be provided on the industrial (M-1 or M-2) lot.
These buffers are illustrated in Figures 1, 2, 3, respectively;
      (6)   When a telecommunications tower and facility is sited, landscaping
shall be added around the outside of the tower fence which encloses the area
for tower(s) and equipment shelter(s) in the form of a minimum 20-foot screen/
buffer in Grade 6, meeting the requirements of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter. The fence shall be on the interior side of the tower,
with the landscaping on the outside of the fence area, facing other properties;
or
      (7)   When a lot containing an adult establishment, adult video store or
adult hotel or motel subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit abuts
a lot in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) or business (C-B, G-B) zoning
district, screening must be provided on the lot containing said adult use in
the form of a minimum 20-foot screen/buffer in Grade 6, meeting the
requirements of §§
155.100,
155.101,
155.102,
155.104 and
155.105 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.097 INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY LOCATED ACROSS FROM RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   When the front yard of a lot developed in an industrial (M-1 or M-2)
district is located directly across a public street from a residential (R-A, R-
20, R-10) district; screening, at a minimum, must be provided on the industrial
(M-1, M-2) lot at a minimum in the form of a Grade 2 screen/buffer, as
illustrated in Figure 2.
   (B)   Standards for screen/buffers are found in §
155.100 of this chapter.
   (C)   Screening shall be in the front yard of the lot in the industrial
district (M-1, M-2) immediately behind the street right-of-way and shall also
meet the design standards of §
155.096 of this chapter.
   (D)   In lieu of said screen, all principal and accessory structures and
off-street parking facilities must be set back in the front yard at least 100
feet from the edge of the road right-of-way.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.098 OPEN STORAGE AND UNENCLOSED STRUCTURES.
   For open-air storage, or an unenclosed structure consisting of a roof, but
no walls used for storage of materials, products, wastes or equipment
associated with business or industrial uses located in any zoning district
within 100 feet of the street right-of-way, screening must be provided on the
subject property so as to materially screen said storage in the form of a berm,
wall or fence or an appropriate amount of natural plantings as to provide the
necessary amounts of screening to effectively screen the storage from view from
any adjacent lot or street right-of-way. Standards for screening are found in §
155.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.099 ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following uses must be screened from abutting property and from
public view from a public street. The landscaping shall be positioned so that
shrubs form a continuous, tight screen at mature growth:
      (1)   Dumpsters or trash handling areas (not including recycling
facilities);
      (2)   Service entrances or utility structures;
      (3)   Loading docks or spaces; and
      (4)   Parking lots with over ten parking spaces (excluding new and used
automobile sales lots and parking areas for detached, duplex, triplex or
quadruplex dwellings on a single lot (Grade 2 screen/buffer, minimum)).
   (B)   Except as provided in §
155.096 of this chapter, screening shall not be required between any two lots
which contain principal residential uses.
   (C)   Standards for screen/buffers are found in §
155.100 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.100 SCREEN AND BUFFER STRIP STANDARDS.
   (A)   Unless an exception is granted pursuant to §
155.103 of this chapter, the required screening and buffer strip shall, at a
minimum, conform to the standards prescribed by either one of the alternatives
listed for the grade of screen and buffer required in §§
155.096,
155.097,
155.098 and
155.099 of this chapter. The alternatives for a Grade 1 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 1. The alternatives for a Grade 2 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 2. The alternatives for a Grade 3 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 3. The alternatives for a Grade 4 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 4. The alternatives for a Grade 5 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 5. The alternatives for a Grade 6 buffer are listed and
illustrated in Figure 6.
   (B)   To the extent that existing natural vegetation located on the same
parcel of land as the proposed development can meet the required screening
levels of this section, the use of such materials is encouraged. In such case,
the owner shall designate the land on which such materials are rooted, which
shall contain at least the minimum width required for the alternative chosen,
as the designated buffer area. (See §
155.107 of this chapter.) Additional plantings shall be added, if the buffer is
deficient in any way.
   (C)   (1)   To determine the total number of plants required, the length of
each side of the property requiring a screen/buffer, minus the area covered by
a sight distance triangle as required in §
155.105 of this chapter shall be divided by 100 and multiplied by the number of
plants listed for the required screen/buffer. When units of measurement
determining the number of required trees shrubs result in a fractional tree or
shrub, any fraction of one-half or more shall require one tree or shrub.
      (2)   For example, an industrial property 180 feet wide in the rear,
which abuts a R-20 District, requires a 20-foot buffer. The calculations for
the minimum required number of trees and shrubs is as follows:
         180, 100 = 1.80
         1.80 x 12 trees = 21.6 trees or 22 required
         1.80 x 20 shrubs = 36 shrubs required
   (D)   For required screen/buffers, more than one alternative is shown. The
owner of the lot which is required to provide screening and buffering may
choose among these options. Unless an alternative prescribes a wall, fence or
berm, such measures shall not be substituted for the required amount of plant
materials, nor shall such measures be substituted for any required buffer
width, except as provided for in §
155.103 of this chapter; provided, however, this requirement shall not prevent
the owner from installing such measures as added screening above the minimum so
long as all required plant materials are installed on the side of any wall or
fence opposite the new development. (See Figure 7.)
   (E)   Except as provided in §§
155.096,
155.097 and
155.098 of this chapter, a screen/buffer shall be required along rear and/or
side lot lines only. No required buffer shall extend nearer to a street than
the street right-of way line.
   (F)   No structure other than a wall, fence, sidewalk, mailbox, sign or
driveway shall be permitted within a required screen area. No off-street
parking may take place in any required screen area. Where plant materials are
required, the required amount of plant materials shall be installed on the side
of any wall or fence opposite the new development (see Figure 7) unless a
waiver of such requirement is granted pursuant to §
155.103 of this chapter.
   (G)   The height of any screen material required by this chapter in the
vicinity of a point of ingress and egress may not exceed three feet in height
within the sight triangle depicted in Figure 8.
Area and Height Specifications for Screening Materials at Ingress/Egress Points
[Image Reserved]
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.101 PLANT STANDARDS AND PLANT INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all new plant material installed as
part of a screen required under these regulations.
   (A)   Trees to be planted shall be selected from the approved species listed
in below. The Zoning Administrator may approve alternative large or small
maturing trees, excluding sweet gum, catalpa, wild cherry, wild elm, princess,
hackberry and tree-of-heaven.
   (B)   Minimum tree caliper measured six inches above ground on all trees
shall be two and one-half inches and the minimum height shall be eight feet. No
trees identified as large maturing trees shall be planted within 20 feet of an
electrical distribution line. This does not include low-voltage insulated or
covered lines of 240 volts or less or telephone or cable television lines.
   (C)   Shrubs used in any screening or landscaping must be at least two feet
tall when planted and shall be of a variety and adequately maintained so that
an average height of five to six feet could be expected as normal growth within
three years of planting. Shrubs shall be selected from an approved species list
shown below.
Approved Species List for Shrubs
Approved Species List for Shrubs
Burford Holly
East Palatka Holly
Eleagnus
Japanese Black Pines
Junipers
Ligustrums
Nelly R. Stevens Holly
Savannah Holly
Tea Olives
Wax Myrtle
Any other variety of shrub, approved by the Zoning Administrator, which has the
capacity to provide an equivalent amount of growth and opacity
 
   (D)   All plant material installed shall be free from disease.
   (E)   Plant materials shall be planted in accordance with generally accepted
and recommended planting and growing practices.
   (F)   All plant material shall be installed in a fashion that ensures the
availability of sufficient soil and water to sustain health growth.
   (G)   All plant material shall be planted in a manner which is not intrusive
to utilities or pavement.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.7A) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.102 WALLS, FENCES AND BERMS.
   Whenever a screening alternative specified is selected which includes a
wall, fence or berm, such wall, fence or berm shall meet the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any wall shall be constructed in a durable fashion of brick, stone or
other masonry materials with no greater than 25% of the wall surface left open.
All walls, except those constructed of stone, shall be of a consistent pattern.
Gates constructed to the standards for fence materials as set forth in §
155.101 of this chapter and division (B) below may be included in the wall to
allow passage to maintain the plant materials included in the screen/buffer.
   (B)   Any fence shall be constructed in a durable fashion of wood posts and/
or planks with a minimum diameter or width of three inches and with no greater
than 25% of the fence surface left open between posts and/or planks. Wooden
gates meeting such standards of opacity may also be included.
   (C)   No wall or fence used as part of a screen shall be less than six feet,
nor more than eight feet, in height above grade.
   (D)   All berms shall be grassed and/or planted with other plant materials
sufficient to prevent soil erosion. If grassed alone, any berm installed to
meet the requirements of this section shall be no less than four feet, nor
greater than nine feet in height. No slope of a berm shall exceed a slope
greater than one foot of rise for every three feet in plane. No part of the
berm shall be left as bare soil. Any required plant materials accompanying a
berm may be planted on the berm and/or along either side of the berm. It is
recommended that, where feasible, at least 75% of any required shrubs be
planted on the slope of the berm opposite the new development.
   (E)   Where a fence or wall is used as part of a required screen area, any
required plantings accompanying the fence or wall shall be located on the side
of such fence or wall opposite the new development.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.7B) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.103 RELIEF TO REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the event unusual topography or elevation of a development site or
the location or size of the parcel would make strict adherence to the
requirements of this section serve no meaningful purpose or would make it
physically impossible to install and maintain the required screen and buffer,
the Town Council may alter the requirements of §§
155.096 and
155.097 of this chapter; provided, the spirit and intent of this subchapter are
maintained. Such alteration may occur only at the request of the developer, who
shall submit a plan to the Town Council showing existing site features that
would screen the proposed use and any additional screening materials the
developer may propose to have installed. The Town Council shall have no
authority to alter the screening and buffer requirements unless the developer
demonstrates that existing site features and any additional screening materials
will screen the proposed use as effectively as the required screen.
   (B)   The vacancy or non-use of an adjoining parcel shall not constitute
grounds for providing relief to the screening and buffering requirements
contained in this chapter. Neither shall the desire of the owner to make more
intensive use or greater economic use of the property be grounds for reducing
the screening/buffering requirements of this subchapter where the effect of the
screening and buffer requirements of this subchapter is to deny the owner
reasonable use of the entire tract (or tracts) of property, relief pursuant to
this subchapter may be granted to the extent that reasonable use of such tract
or tracts is available. In decided whether to approve such a plan, the Zoning
Administrator may, at his or her discretion, seek an advisory opinion from the
Planning Board.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.104 MAINTENANCE.
   The plantings, fences, walls or berms that constitute a required screen
shall be properly maintained in order for the screen to fulfill the purpose for
which it is established. The owner of the property and any tenant on the
property where a screen is required shall be jointly and severally responsible
for the maintenance of all screen materials. Such maintenance shall include all
actions necessary to keep the screened area free of litter and debris; to keep
plantings healthy; to keep plant growth from interfering with safe vehicular
and pedestrian travel, or use of parking areas, or from creating nuisances to
adjoining properties. Any vegetation that constitutes part of a screen shall be
replaced in the event that it dies. All screen materials shall be protected
from damage, by erosion, motor vehicles or pedestrians which could reduce the
effectiveness of the screen.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.105 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Except as herein provided, on a corner lot in any district, no hedge,
shrubbery, tree, natural growth, sign, fence, wall or other obstruction to
vision which obstructs cross-visibility at a level between two feet and nine
feet above the level of the center of the street (where the projection of the
sight triangles intersect the centerline of the street) shall be placed or
maintained within the triangular areas formed by the intersection of front or
rear lot lines and the side lot line and a straight line connecting points on
said lot lines, which are located 15 and 75 feet from the point of
intersection, as shown in Figure 9 and 10. In instances where NCDOT site
triangle provisions are applicable, such regulations shall prevail.
[Image Reserved]
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.106 IMPLEMENTATION PRIOR TO OCCUPANCY.
   Fences, walls, berms and landscaping materials required in this subchapter
for screening and buffering shall be installed prior to occupancy.
   (A)   Improvement guarantees. It is recognized that vegetation used in
landscaping or screening should be planted at certain times of the year to
ensure the best chance of survival. In order to ensure compliance with this
section and to reduce the potential expense of replacing landscaping or
screening materials which were installed in an untimely or improper fashion, in
lieu of requiring the completion and installation of these improvements prior
to occupancy, the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider/
developer whereby the subdivider/developer shall agree to complete all required
landscaping and screening. To secure this agreement, the subdivider/developer
shall provide to the town one of the following guarantees. The amount of such
guarantee shall be equal to 1.25 times the cost of purchasing, installing and
completing landscaping and screening materials required under this chapter. All
such guarantees shall be subject to the approval of the town and shall be made
payable to the town. The subdivider/developer shall provide either one or a
combination of the following guarantees:
      (1)   Surety performance bond(s):
         (a)   The subdivider/developer shall obtain a performance bond(s) from
a surety company authorized to do business in the state. The duration of the
bond(s) shall be until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Town
Council.
         (b)   The subdivider/developer shall deposit cash, an irrevocable
letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face
value, either with the town or in escrow with a financial institution
designated as an official depository of the town.
         (c)   If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a
financial institution as herein provided, the subdivider/developer shall then
file with the town an agreement between the financial institution and himself
or herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   The said escrow account shall be held in trust until released
by the town and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider/developer in any
matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider/
developer to complete said improvement, the financial institution shall, upon
notification by the town and submission by the town to the financial
institution of a landscape architect’s estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds
estimated to complete the improvements up to the full balance of the escrow
account or deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the town.
      (2)   Cash or equivalent security.
   (B)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider/
developer to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled
out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the
financial institution holding the escrow account, shall, if requested by the
town, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town up to the
amount needed to complete the improvements based on a landscape architect’s
estimate. Upon payment, the town, in its discretion, may expend such portion of
said funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required
improvements. The town shall return to the bonding firm any funds not spent in
completing the improvements. Should the amount of funds needed to complete the
installation of all required improvements exceed the amount in the bond or
escrow account, the subdivider/developer shall nonetheless be responsible for
providing the funds to cover such costs. The subdivider/developer shall at all
times bear the financial burden for the installation of all required
improvements. A lien shall be attached to the property if the subdivider/
developer fails to provide the full financial responsibility under this
subchapter.
   (C)   Release of guarantee security. The town may authorize the Town Clerk
to release a portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed
and approved by the town. Such funds shall then be released within ten days
after the corresponding improvements have been so approved.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.11)
§ 155.107 EXISTING SCREENED AREAS.
   In cases where an existing, screened area is located on the same tract as
the proposed development, further plantings and or improvements shall not be
required so long as said screened area is of sufficient width and depth and
contains adequate and sufficient materials to meet the requirements of this
chapter. If the screened area is deficient, the developer shall make needed
improvements and/or additions to satisfy the screening requirements and intent
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5.4.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.120 COMPLIANCE; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   Every new use shall require off-street parking, loading and/or storage space
in compliance with these regulations. Any enlargement, expansion or alteration
or change of an existing use shall also require off-street parking, loading
and/or storage space in compliance with these regulations. However, if the
enlargement, alteration or expansion is of a use located in the C-B Zoning
District, the use shall be exempt from providing additional off-street parking,
loading and/or storage space, as required in this subchapter.
   (A)   The number of required off-street parking spaces shall be increased
when a change of use of either a structure or of land requires additional
parking spaces in compliance with this subchapter (except as noted in §
155.041 of this chapter). Parking spaces may be decreased when a change of use
requires fewer spaces than was originally provided.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.1)
   (B)   (1)   A principal use which is not deficient in the number of off-
street parking spaces provided may expand without having to provide additional
off-street parking spaces under certain circumstances. Such circumstances are:
         (a)   When, after the expansion, the number of off-street parking
spaces provided still meets or exceeds the required minimum; and
         (b)   If the expansion results in the need to create no greater than
five off-street parking spaces in order to meet the minimum number of required
spaces, these additional spaces may be waived by the Zoning Administrator on a
one-time basis only. In shopping centers, office parks and similar planned,
phased or multi-use developments, such waiver may only be applied once within
the development.
      (2)   In no instance shall a reduction be allowed for the number of off-
street parking spaces parking for any use which expands when, prior to such
expansion, said use was deficient in the number of off-street parking spaces
provided.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.2)
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued for any use until all
off-street parking and loading requirements in accordance with this chapter
have been met and are in place and ready for use.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.3)
§ 155.121 LOCATION OF REQUIRED PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces shall generally be provided on the same lot
as the principal use. In instances where such parking for a principal non-
residential use cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot, it may be
provided on a separate lot. At least one-half of the required parking shall be
provided on the lot containing the principal use or a satellite lot; provided,
said parking lies within a 300-foot walking distance to the lot containing the
principal use, or 300-foot walking distance if the use served is allowed in
residentially zoned areas or is any non-residential use seeking off-site
parking in a residentially zoned district (R-A, R-20, R-10).
   (B)   In all residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) zoning districts, required off-
street parking shall be provided on the lot on which the use is located.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.4)
§ 155.122 COOPERATIVE PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Cooperative provisions for off-street parking may be made by
contract between two or more adjacent property owners.
      (2)   The parking area provided on any one lot may be reduced to not less
than one-half the number of parking spaces required for the use occupying such
lot.
      (3)   The end result shall be that the sum of the parking spaces for the
uses computed cooperatively shall be the same or more than if the uses were
computed separately.
      (4)   Any such cooperative parking mechanism must first be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator for his or her review and approval prior to the
issuance for certificate of occupancy.
   (B)   Similarly, one parking area may contain required spaces for several
different uses, but, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the
required space assigned to one use may not be credited to any other use.
   (C)   To the extent that developments that wish to make joint use of the
same parking spaces operate at different times up to one-half of the parking
spaces may be credited to both uses if one use is a church, theater or assembly
hall whose peak hours of attendance will be at night or on Sundays, and the
other use is one which will be closed at night or on Sundays.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.5)
§ 155.123 PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Each parking space, (other than those designed for the disabled) shall
contain a rectangular area at least twenty (19) feet long and ten feet wide.
Lines demarcating parking spaces may be drawn at various angles in relation to
curbs or aisles, so long as the parking spaces so created contain within them
the rectangular area required by this section.
   (B)   Wherever parking areas consist of spaces set aside for parallel
parking, the dimensions of such parking spaces shall be not less than 23 feet
by nine feet.
   (C)   Each angled parking space (other than those designed for the disabled)
shall contain a rectangular parking area of the following size:
 
Parking Angle   Stall Width Stall Length
0 - 15 degrees  10 ft.      23 ft.
16 - 90 degrees 10 ft.      19 ft.
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.6)
§ 155.124 REQUIRED WIDTHS OF PARKING AREA AISLES AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Parking area aisle widths shall conform to the following table, which
varies the width requirement according to the angle of parking.
 
Aisle Width     Angle of Parking
One-way traffic 13 13 13 18 24
Two-way traffic 19 20 21 23 24
 
   (B)   (1)   Driveways shall be not less than ten feet in width for one-way
traffic and 18 feet in width for two-way traffic; except that, ten-foot wide
driveways are permissible for two-way traffic when:
         (a)   The driveway is not longer than 50 feet;
         (b)   It provides access to not more than six spaces; and
         (c)   Sufficient turning space is provided so that vehicles need not
back into a public street.
      (2)   In no case shall a driveway width exceed 36 feet in width, except
as required by NCDOT.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.125 SPACE FOR THE DISABLED.
   (A)   (1)   Except for a lot containing a duplex, triplex, quadruplex or
single-family dwelling, all uses shall be required to provide the following
number of spaces designed for disabled persons.
 
Total Number of Required Off-Street Total Number of Spaces Required for
Parking Spaces                      Disabled
1 - 50                              1
51 - 100                            2
101 or more                         2, plus one for every 50 spaces over 100
 
      (2)   The number of such spaces shall be in addition to those indicated
in herein.
   (B)   Off-street parking spaces for the disabled shall be designed as
follows.
      (1)   All spaces for the disabled shall have access to a curb-ramp or
curb-cut when necessary to allow access to the building served, and shall be
located so that users will not be compelled to wheel behind parked vehicles,
and shall be located the shortest possible distance between the parking area
and the entrance to the principal building it serves.
      (2)   Parallel parking spaces for the disabled shall be located either at
the beginning or end of a block or adjacent to alley entrances. Curbs adjacent
to such spaces shall be of a height which will not interfere with the opening
and closing of motor vehicle doors.
      (3)   Each parking space for the disabled shall be paved and prominently
outlined with paint, with a permanent sign of a color and design approved by
the state’s Department of Transportation, bearing the internationally accepted
wheelchair symbol, posted at the head of the parking space.
      (4)   The size of the parking space shall be per Building Code
specifications.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.8)
§ 155.126 GENERAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless no other practicable alternative is available, any off-
street parking area shall be designed so that, without resorting to
extraordinary movements, vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a
public street.
      (2)   This requirement does not apply to parking areas consisting of
driveways serving lots which contain one- or two-family dwelling units,
although backing onto collector or arterial roads is discouraged.
   (B)   Off-street parking areas of all developments shall be designed so that
sanitation, emergency and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making
other dangerous of hazardous turning movements.
   (C)   Every off-street parking area shall be designed so that vehicles
cannot extend beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way. Such areas shall also be designed so that vehicles do not
extend over sidewalks or tend to bump against or damage any wall, vegetation or
other obstruction.
   (D)   Circulation areas shall be designed so that vehicles can proceed
safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles and without
interfering with parking areas.
   (E)   No off-street parking area shall be located over an active or
auxiliary septic tank field.
   (F)   All off-street parking areas shall be located no closer than ten feet
from the edge of any public street right-of-way and five feet from the edge of
any sidewalk area.
   (G)   Lighting of off-street parking lots must be directed away from lot
lines and nearby residences.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.127 OFF-STREET PARKING AREA SURFACES.
   (A)   Off-street parking areas (in zoning districts other than in the
industrial districts (M-1, M-2)) that are required to have more than five
parking spaces shall be graded and surfaced with asphalt, concrete, bituminous
surface treatment or other material that will provide equivalent protection
against potholes, erosion and dust. Such parking surfaces shall not, however,
be required for off-street parking facilities serving family day care centers,
customary home occupations, rural home occupations, athletic fields, churches
or public or private parks.
   (B)   Off-street parking areas that are not provided with the type of
surface specified in division (A) above shall be graded and surfaced with
crushed stone, gravel or other suitable material to provide a surface that is
stable and will help to reduce dust and erosion. The perimeter of such parking
areas shall be defined by bricks, stones, railroad ties or other similar
devices. In addition, whenever such a vehicle accommodation area abuts a paved
street, the driveway leading from such street to such area (or, if there is no
driveway, the portion of the off-street parking area that opens onto such
streets) shall be paved as provided in division (A) above for a distance of 15
feet back from the edge of the paved street. This division (B) shall not apply
to single-family or two-family residences or other uses that are required to
have only one or two parking spaces.
   (C)   Parking spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (A) above
shall be appropriately demarcated with painted lines or other markings. Parking
spaces in areas surfaced in accordance with division (B) above shall be
demarcated whenever practical.
   (D)   Off-street parking areas shall be properly maintained in all respects.
In particular, and without limiting the foregoing, off-street parking area
surfaces shall be kept in good condition (free from potholes and the like) and
parking space lines or markings shall be kept clearly visible and distinct.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.128 OFF-STREET PARKING LOT USAGE.
   (A)   The use of off-street parking lots in residential zones is limited to
private passenger vehicles (cars, mini-vans, sport utility vehicles, pick-up
trucks).
   (B)   No repair, washing or maintenance of vehicles, display or storage of
vehicles or merchandise is allowed in off-street parking lots.
   (C)   The temporary parking or storage of manufactured homes shall be
prohibited in any zoning district in which manufactured homes are not permitted
(excluding manufactured homes located in manufactured sales lots).
   (D)   Automobiles or trailers of any kind or type without current license
plates shall not be parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other
than in completely enclosed buildings.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.129 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   The number of off-street parking spaces for any particular use as required
by this chapter shall be computed as follows.
   (A)   When units of measurement determining the number of required parking
spaces result in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more shall
require one parking space.
   (B)   Where seats consist of pews or benches, each 20 inches of a pew or
bench shall be considered as one seat.
   (C)   For the purpose of computing parking requirements based on the number
of employees, the on-site owners or managers shall also be considered
employees.
   (D)   The number of required off-street parking spaces designed for use by
handicapped persons as prescribed by the North Carolina State Building Code
shall be computed separately from the off-street parking requirements as
otherwise contained in this chapter.
   (E)   The table below indicates the required number of off-street parking
spaces for any use permitted by right or subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit as indicated in this chapter, except as noted in
division (D) above.
Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Group Number Parking Requirements
Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
Group  Parking Requirements
Number
0.1    None
0.2    To be determined by the Zoning Administrator by individual review
0.3    4 spaces for each 5 personnel, including reservists expected to report for
       duty at the facility on any day of maximum use
0.4    1 space per 3 boat slips
0.5    The required amount of parking for the residential and commercial uses on
       the lot
1.1    2 spaces per dwelling unit
1.2    1 space, plus additional parking as herein provided for the principal
       residential dwelling
       Efficiency units: 1.5 spaces per unit
       1 or 2 bedroom units: 2 spaces per unit
1.3    3+ bedrooms per unit: 2.25 spaces per unit
       Dwellings designed specifically for the elderly or disabled: 1.25 spaces
       per unit
1.4    To be determined by computing the parking requirements for the types of
       dwelling units composing the planned residential development
1.5    1 per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 per vehicle
       used in the operation, plus 1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
       1 space for each employee who does not reside on-premises, plus the
1.6    required spaces for the residential dwelling unit, plus 1 space for each
       300 square feet of gross floor area devoted to the home occupation (up to
       a maximum of 3 such spaces)
1.7    1 space per room rented in the dwelling unit plus the required spaces for
       the dwelling unit
1.8    The number of parking spaces required for each individual use within the
       development as herein provided
1.9    4 spaces per family care home
2.1    1 space per guest bedroom, plus 1 space per employee on the shift of
       maximum employment
2.2    3 spaces for each 5 resident beds
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 3
2.3    spaces for the first 25 persons of certification capacity and 1 space for
       each additional 25 persons of certification capacity
2.4    1 space, plus additional required parking spaces for the residential
       dwelling
2.5    1 space per 200 square feet of office area
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.6    for each vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space for each 4 horses
       capable of being kept at the facility
2.7    1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each 3 viewer or spectator seats
2.8    1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area, plus 2 spaces for
       each fuel nozzle
2.9    1 space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 3
2.10   spaces per service bay; service bays shall not be considered as being off-
       street parking spaces
       1 space per employee during the greatest shift of employment, plus 1 space
2.11   per 3 boat slips; additional parking shall be required as provided in this
       section for ancillary services such as restaurants, motels, gift shops and
       the like
       3 spaces or one space per 400 square feet of gross floor area of enclosed
2.12   retail sales area, whichever is greater; plus additional spaces required
       for the residential use
2.13   1 space per camp site, plus 1 space per employee during the shift of
       greatest employment, plus 1 space per vehicle used in the operation
2.14   1 space per 400 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space per employee
       during the shift of greatest employment
2.15   1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area
       1 space per 3 spectator seats (or spectator capacity in the largest
2.16   gymnasium or assembly hall), plus 1 space per employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
       1 space per two students during the shift of greatest enrollment; if an
2.17   auditorium is provided for performances, parking spaces for this shall be
       computed separately
2.18   1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor area, plus 100 linear feet of
       queuing area per drive-in window, plus 2 spaces per automatic teller
2.19   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1
       additional space per credit or tax counselor during said shift
       1 space per 3 seats in the chapel(s), plus 1 space for each employee
2.20   during the shift of greatest employment; in addition, off-street parking
       area shall be provided to accommodate a minimum of 30 passenger vehicles
       for the purpose of forming a funeral procession
2.21   2 spaces per bed, not including bassinets
2.22   1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor area
       1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor area; or 1 space for each
       employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space per each 3
2.23   customer seats, whichever is greater; if drive-in window service is
       provided, a reservoir area equal to at least 3 spaces per drive-in window
       shall be provided
2.24   Same as Group No. 2.23, plus 1 space for each call-box located outdoors
       on-premises
       4 spaces for each salesperson, plus 1 space per each other employee during
2.25   the shift of greatest employment; these spaces shall be in addition to
       those used for vehicle/boat display purposes; if repair and/or auto/boat
       body services are provided on-site, these shall be computed separately
       1 space located away from pumps for each fuel nozzle, plus 3 spaces for
2.26   each service bay, plus 1 space for each employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.27   for each vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space for each 400 square
       feet of retail sales and customer area
2.28   3 spaces per barber, beautician or photographer
2.29   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each 3 patron seats
2.30   1-1/2 spaces per employee during the shift of greatest employment
2.31   1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area
       3 spaces per bowling lane, batting range or golf hole, plus 1 space per
2.32   employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space per vehicle
       used in the operation
2.33   3 spaces per pool table, plus 1 space per employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
2.34   1 space per speaker outlet, plus 1 space per employee
       2 spaces per patient treatment or examination room (or similar patient
2.35   treatment space), plus 1 space per doctor practicing at the clinic or
       office, plus 1 space per each additional employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment; and reserve
2.36   spaces equal to 3 times the number of washing bays at the facility or
       capacity of the mechanical washing system (for automatic car washes),
       whichever is greater
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.37   per 200 square feet of customer reception area (if such reception area is
       provided)
2.38   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each 2 washing machines
2.39   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment
2.40   1 space per 150 square feet of waiting area
2.41   1 space per 10 storage units, plus 1 space per employee during the shift
       of greatest employment
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.42   for each vehicle used in the operation; in addition, in order to
       accommodate visitors, 1 additional space per 10 required spaces shall be
       provided
2.43   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each vehicle used in the operation
2.44   1 space per 300 square feet of lot area used for display or sales
2.45   1 space for each 3 persons that the facility is designed to accommodate,
       plus 1 space for each employee during the shift of greatest employment
2.46   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each vehicle used in the operation
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each vehicle used in the operation; in addition, in order to
2.48   accommodate visitors, 1 additional space per 10 required spaces shall be
       provided with a minimum of 5 and a maximum of 10 such “visitor” spaces
       being required
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.49   for each vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space for each 600 square
       feet of retail display or wholesale cash and carry area
       1 space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area of all uses,
2.50   excluding indoor theaters; the parking requirements for indoor theaters
       shall be computed separately
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.51   for each 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate when
       fully utilized
2.52   2 spaces per salesperson, plus 1 space for each vehicle used in the
       operation
2.53   1 space per 400 square feet of sales or display area
2.55   1-1/2 spaces per employee
2.56   1 space per 300 square feet of office area
2.57   1-1/2 spaces per batting station, plus 1 space per employee during the
       shift of greatest employment
2.58   1 space per 200 square feet of retail sales area
       1 space per 100 square feet of water; plus 1 space per tennis or
2.59   racquetball court (outdoor or indoor) and 1 space per 200 square feet of
       exercise area not otherwise calculated for parking purposes
2.60   2 spaces per firing station, plus 1 space per employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
2.61   1.2 spaces per employee during the shift of greatest employment
2.62   1 space per 150 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space per employee
       during the shift of greatest employment
2.63   2 spaces per employee during the shift of greatest employment
2.64   1 space per 50 square feet of public area (including dining halls), plus 1
       space per employee during the shift of greatest employment
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.65   for each vehicle used in the operation; the spaces required for employees
       may be reduced by 0.75 for each employee that reports to work off-site at
       least 75% of work days
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.66   per dining table, plus queuing space for at least 12 automobiles per
       drive-through lane
2.67   The off-street parking requirements for each principal use within the
       shopping center shall be computed separately
2.68   1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor area
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
2.69   for each vehicle used in the operation, plus 2 spaces per each vehicle
       which is designed to be accommodated in the service area
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment; in addition,
2.70   the Zoning Administrator shall determine the number of spaces required for
       truck drivers who operate in the facility
2.71   1 space per guest room or suite, plus 1 space per employee during the
       shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space per 3 seats in any meeting room
3.1    1 space per staff member, plus 1.6 spaces per classroom, or 1 space for
       each three seats used for assembly purposes, whichever is greater
3.2    1 space for each 3 seats in the sanctuary; where seats consist of pews or
       benches, each 20 inches of a pew or bench shall be considered as 1 seat
       5 spaces for each room used for instruction or 1 space for each 3 seats
3.3    used for assembly purposes, whichever is greater; ASSEMBLY PURPOSES shall
       be deemed to include the capacity of either indoor or outdoor assembly,
       whichever is greater
       1 space for each 3 persons that the facilities are designed to accommodate
3.4    when fully utilized (if such a measurement can be made), plus 1 space per
       200 feet of gross floor area used in a manner not susceptible to such
       calculation
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment plus parking
3.5    on private internal roads with room for cars to pass parked cars on said
       roads
3.6    1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       per 25 inmates
       1 space per 200 square feet of area which is accessible to patrons and
3.7    their guests which is located within enclosed buildings, plus 1 space for
       every 3 persons that the outdoor facilities are designed to accommodate
       when used to their maximum capacity
       1 space per 300 square feet of office area, plus 1 space for each vehicle
3.8    used in the operation, plus 1 space for each 3 seats in the waiting room
       area
3.9    1 space for each 3 students, plus 1 space per employee during the shift of
       greatest employment
3.10   1 parking space for each employee during the shift of greatest employment,
       plus 2 additional spaces
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
3.11   per vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
       customer waiting area
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
3.12   per vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space per 2 patron seats or 1
       space per 3 auditorium or similar spectator seats, whichever is greater
       1 space for every 3 persons that the facilities are designed to
3.13   accommodate when used to the maximum capacity, plus 1 space per employee
       during the shift of greatest employment
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
3.14   per vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space per 300 square feet of
       viewing area or 1 space per 3 auditorium seats or similar spectator seats,
       whichever is greater
3.15   1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
       for each vehicle used in the operation, plus 7 additional spaces
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 4
3.16   spaces per hole, plus 1 space for each vehicle used in the operation
       (excluding golf carts)
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 3
3.17   spaces per hole; if an amusement arcade is provided on-site, parking
       requirements for it shall be computed separately
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
4.1    per vehicle used in the operation; in order to accommodate visitors, 1
       additional space for each 20 required spaces shall also be required
       1 space per employee during the shift of greatest employment, plus 1 space
4.2    per vehicle used in the operation, plus 1 space per 600 square feet of
       retail sales floor area or 5 spaces, whichever is greater
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.12)
§ 155.130 LANDSCAPING WITHIN OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   The purpose of such landscaping is to provide a visual buffer both to the
motorist traveling on adjacent roads and to persons using the off-street
parking facility. In addition, the landscaping shall serve as a means of
reducing glare, controlling water runoff and promoting the improved appearance
of off-street parking areas which might otherwise consist of large unbroken
expanses of paved surfaces.
   (A)   (1)   Landscaping, in accordance with the requirements contained
herein, shall be required in off-street parking areas under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   The off-street parking area contains 20 or more spaces; and
         (b)   The off-street parking area lies in any front or side yard; or
in a rear yard and said rear yard is visible from any public road right-of-way
adjoining the subject property.
      (2)   In addition, if a building permit is requested for the renovation
of a previously developed site which increases the building square footage by
50% or more, these requirements for landscaping off-street parking areas must
be provided as a minimum. Property zoned C-B is exempt from this requirement.
   (B)   (1)   The amount of landscaping shall be a function of the zoning
district in which the lot is located. Landscaping, calculated by the required
number of trees and shrubs per parking space (in such areas where landscaping
is required), shall be provided at a minimum as follows:
 
Zoning District Required Number of Trees and Shrubs per Parking Space
R-A, R-20, R-10 Trees: 0.30
                Shrubs: 0.75
G-B, M-1, M-2   Trees: 0.15
                Shrubs: 0.50
 
      (2)   Thus, if there were an off-street parking area containing 125
spaces (in the front and side yards), and such parking area were located in an
G-B Zone, internal landscaping within the parking area shall consist of a
minimum of 38 trees, and 94 shrubs. If the same parking area were located in a
R-10 District, 19 trees and 63 shrubs would be required.
   (C)   Landscaping along the perimeter of parking areas or landscaped areas
not bounded on at least three sides by parking spaces, driveways or maneuvering
areas shall not be counted toward the landscaped area required under this
subchapter.
   (D)   Trees to be planted shall be selected from the approved species listed
in §
155.101 of this chapter. Minimum tree caliper measured six inches above ground
on all trees shall be two and one-half inches and the minimum height shall be
eight feet. No trees identified as large maturing trees shall be planted within
20 feet of an electrical distribution line. This does not include low-voltage
insulated or covered lines of 240 volts or less or telephone or cable
television lines.
   (E)   Shrubs used in any screening or landscaping must be at least two feet
tall when planted and shall be selected from the approved species listed in §
155.101 of this chapter. They must be of a variety and adequately maintained so
that an average height of five to six feet could be expected as normal growth
within three years of planting.
   (F)   Any landscaped area provided under this section shall not contain bare
soil. Any ground area shall be covered with stones, mulch, grass or other
decorative or vegetative ground cover.
   (G)   Any landscaped area provided under this section shall be separated
from parking spaces, driveways and maneuvering areas by a curb at least six
inches high and the landscaped area shall be at least eight feet wide and
designed to minimize damage by vehicles to plants located in the landscaped
area. The minimum unpaved area per tree shall be 200 square feet.
   (H)   No shrubs shall be located within any vehicle overhang area (area two
feet beyond curb or wheel stop at the head of a parking space).
   (I)   Each parking space shall be no further than 60 feet from a tree
constituting part of the required landscaped area.
   (J)   (1)   The plantings that constitute required landscaping shall be
properly installed and maintained in order to fulfill the purpose for which it
is established. Required trees shall be selected from the approved species list
found in §
155.101 of this chapter. Required shrubs shall be selected for healthy growth
under local climate conditions and are not highly prone to disease, and from an
approved species found in §
155.101 of this chapter. Plant materials shall be planted in accordance with
generally recommended and accepted planting and growing practices. The owner of
the property, and any tenant on the property where landscaping is required
shall be jointly and severally responsible for the maintenance of all required
landscape materials. Such maintenance shall include all actions necessary to
keep the landscaped areas free of litter and debris; to keep plantings healthy;
to keep growth from interfering with safe vehicular or pedestrian travel or use
of parking areas; or from creating any nuisances to adjoining properties.
      (2)   Any vegetation that constitutes part of the required landscaping
shall be replaced in the event that it dies. All landscaping materials shall be
protected from damage by erosion, motor vehicles or pedestrians.
   (K)   Use of existing trees or shrubs to satisfy the off-street landscaping
requirements of this section is strongly encouraged. If such existing
landscaping is used and consists of mature and semi-mature trees, the Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to reduce the amount of required
landscaping by up to 50%. In no instance shall any paved area within the
parking area extend closer to any existing tree used for landscaping than its
drip line.
   (L)   After the effective date of this chapter, a certificate of occupancy
shall not be issued for any use located on a lot(s) upon which screening and/or
landscaping is required, unless such screening and landscaping is provided on
said lot(s) as herein specified.
   (M)   It is recognized that vegetation used in landscaping or screening
should be planted at certain times of the year to ensure the best chance of
survival. In order to ensure compliance with this section and to reduce the
potential expense of replacing landscaping or screening materials which were
installed in an untimely or improper fashion, in lieu of requiring the
completion and installation of these improvements prior to occupancy, the town
may enter into an agreement with the subdivider/developer whereby the
subdivider/developer shall agree to complete all required landscaping and
screening. To secure this agreement, the subdivider/developer shall provide to
the town one of the following guarantees. The amount of such guarantee shall be
equal to 1.25 times the cost of purchasing, installing and completing
landscaping and screening materials required under this chapter. All such
guarantees shall be subject to the approval of the Town Council and shall be
made payable to the town. The subdivider/developer shall provide either one or
a combination of the following guarantees.
      (1)   Surety performance bond(s). The subdivider/developer shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety company authorized to do business in the
state. The duration of the bond(s) shall be until such time as the improvements
are accepted by the Town Council.
      (2)   Cash or equivalent security.
         (a)   The subdivider/developer shall deposit cash, an irrevocable
letter of credit or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face
value, either with the town or in escrow with a financial institution
designated as an official depository of the town.
         (b)   If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow with a
financial institution as herein provided, the subdivider/developer shall then
file with the town an agreement between the financial institution and himself
or herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   Said escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the Town Council and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider/developer in
any matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider/
developer to complete said improvement, the financial institution shall, upon
notification by the town and submission by the town to the financial
institution of a landscape architect’s estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds
estimated to complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the escrow
account, or deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the town.
      (3)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the
subdivider/developer to complete the required improvements in a timely manner
as spelled out in the performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or
the financial institution holding the escrow account, shall, if requested by
the Town Council, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town
up to the amount needed to complete the improvements based on a landscape
architect’s estimate. Upon payment, the Town Council, in its discretion, may
expend such portion of said funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any
portion of the required improvements. The town shall return to the bonding firm
any funds not spent in completing the improvements. Should the amount of funds
needed to complete the installation of all required improvements exceed the
amount in the bond or escrow account, the subdivider/developer shall
nonetheless be responsible for providing the funds to cover such costs. The
subdivider/developer shall at all times bear the financial burden for the
installation of all required improvements. A lien shall be attached to the
property if the subdivider/developer fails to provide the full financial
responsibility under this section.
      (4)   Release of guarantee security. The Town Council may authorize the
Town Clerk to release a portion of any security posted as the improvements are
completed and approved by the town. Such funds shall then be released within
ten days after the corresponding improvements have been so approved.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.13)
§ 155.131 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to assure a proper and uniform development of off-street loading
areas and to relieve traffic congestion in the streets, the off-street loading
requirements set forth in this subchapter will apply in two business district
zones (G-B) and in the industrial (M-1, M-2) districts. The C-B District is
exempt from providing off-street loading requirements.
   (A)   Minimum off-street loading space requirements. The following minimum
loading space requirements shall apply for the appropriate use:
Type of Use Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Required Number of Loading Spaces
Type of Use                Gross Floor Area (Square Required Number of Loading
                           Feet)                    Spaces
                           0 - 4,999                None
                           5,000 - 49,999           1
Office, restaurant, hotel  50,000 - 99,999          2
or motel                                            2, plus 1 for each 100,000
                           100,000+                 square feet of gross floor
                                                    area in excess of 100,000
                                                    square feet
                           0 - 4,999                None
                           5,000 - 19,999           1
                           20,000 - 49,999          2
Other commercial           50,000 - 79,999          3
establishments, shopping   80,000 - 99,999          4
centers or industrial uses 100,000 - 149,999        5
                                                    5, plus 1 for each 50,000
                           150,000+                 square feet of gross floor
                                                    area in excess of 150,000
                                                    square feet
 
   (B)   Design of loading spaces.
      (1)   Off-street loading spaces shall be designed and constructed so that
all maneuvering to park vehicles for loading and unloading can take place
entirely within the property lines of the premises. Loading spaces must be
designed so as to not interfere with the normal movement of vehicles and
pedestrians on public rights-of-way. Where feasible, off-street loading shall
be located in the rear yard. In certain zoning districts, however, off-street
loading areas shall be required in the rear yard. No area allocated to loading
and unloading facilities may be used to satisfy the area requirements for off-
street parking, nor shall any portion of any off-street parking area be used to
satisfy the area requirements for loading and unloading facilities.
      (2)   Each loading berth shall have a paved surface and be a minimum of
12 feet in width and 35 feet in length. Each such berth shall also have a
minimum vertical clearance of 14 feet. For any use which is required to furnish
three or more loading berths, at least one of every three berths shall have a
minimum width of 12 feet, minimum length of 65 feet and a minimum vertical
clearance of 14 feet.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7.1.14)
SIGNS
§ 155.145 GENERAL INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to support and complement
the various land uses allowed in the town’s area by the adoption of policies
and regulations concerning the placement of signs.
   (B)   The Town Council does hereby find and declare that the outdoor
placement of signs is a legitimate use of private property, but that the
erection of signs should be controlled and regulated in order to promote the
health, safety, welfare and convenience and enjoyment of travel on and
protection of the public investment in streets and roads in the town’s area and
to promote the reasonable, orderly and effective display of such signs,
displays and devices. It is also the intent of this subchapter to prevent signs
from dominating the visual appearance of the area in which they are located and
to enhance the aesthetic environment of the town’s area.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.1)
§ 155.146 SIGN ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   The letter “N” means that the sign shall not be lighted.
   (B)   The letter “L” means that the sign may be illuminated.
   (C)   All lighted signs shall have their lighting directed in such a manner
as to illuminate only the face of the sign.
   (D)   No commercial sign (other than a ground-mounted sign) within 100
linear feet of a pre-existing residential structure may be illuminated between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. A residence shall be deemed “pre-
existing” for purposes of this subchapter if it has a valid building permit in
effect for construction of said structure or if construction of said structure
was complete on or prior to the effective date of this provision.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.2)
§ 155.147 UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Any sign which is determined by the Zoning Administrator as being insecure,
in danger of falling or otherwise endangering the public safety shall be
immediately removed by its owner unless it is repaired and made to otherwise
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.3)
§ 155.148 SIGN AREA.
   (A)   The surface area of a sign is computed as including the entire area
within a parallelogram, triangle, circle, semi-circle or other regular
geometric figure, including all of the elements of the display, but not
including blank masking (a plain strip, bearing no advertising matter around
the edge of a sign), frames, display of identification or licensing officially
required by any governmental body, or structural elements outside the sign
surface and bearing no advertising matter. In the case of signs mounted back-
to-back, only one side of the sign is to be included in the area. Otherwise,
the surface area of each sign is to be separately computed. In the case of
cylindrical signs, signs in the shape of cubes, or other signs which are
substantially three-dimensional with respect to their display surfaces, the
entire display surface or surfaces is included in computations of area.
   (B)   In the case of embellishments (display portions of signs extending
outside the general display area), surface area extending outside the general
display area and bearing advertising material is to be computed separately
(according to the method described immediately above in this section) as part
of the total surface area of the sign. If a sign is attached to an entrance
wall or fence, only that portion of that wall or fence onto which the sign face
or letters are placed shall be calculated in the sign area onto which the sign
face or letter.
EXAMPLES OF HOW SIGN AREA IS TO BE COMPUTED ARE INDICATED BELOW:
[Image Reserved]
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.4)
§ 155.149 SIGN HEIGHT.
   The height of a sign shall be measured from the highest point of a sign to
the point of ground surface beneath it.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.5)
§ 155.150 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in §
155.151 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, enlarge, move or replace any sign or cause the same to be done,
without first having obtained a sign permit for such sign from the Zoning
Administrator as required by this chapter. A fee, in accordance with a fee
schedule adopted by the Town Council, shall be charged for each sign permit
issued.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the above, changing or replacing the copy on an
existing lawful sign shall not require a permit; provided, the copy change does
not change the nature of the sign such as to render the sign in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.151 SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMIT.
   (A)   The following types of signs are exempt from permit requirements of §
155.150 of this chapter and may be placed in any zoning district subject to §
155.146(D) of this chapter. Such signs shall otherwise be in conformance with
all applicable requirements contained in this chapter. There shall be no limit
as to the number of such signs on any lot, except as herein prescribed. All
such signs (except government signs) shall be located outside a road right-of-
way.
   (B)   Except where specifically provided for, portable signs shall be
prohibited:
      (1)   Government signs;
      (2)   Memorial signs, plaques or grave markers which are non-commercial
in nature;
      (3)   Flags, pennants, insignia or religious symbols of any government,
non-profit or not- for-profit organization when not displayed in connection
with a commercial promotion or as an advertising device;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings; works
of art; so long as such features or works do not contain letters, trademarks,
moving parts or lights;
      (5)   Public interest signs;
      (6)   On-premises directional and instructional signs not exceeding six
square feet in area apiece;
      (7)   Identification signs for residential uses not exceeding four square
feet in area (one only per premises);
      (8)   Incidental signs, however, in no case shall a drive-in service
window menu board be oriented to a public right-of-way or exceed 32 square feet
in area. Any such drive-in service window menu board containing a loud speaker
shall be located at least 50 feet from any pre-existing residential structure
(as defined in §
155.146 of this chapter) located in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district;
      (9)   Campaign and election signs; provided that:
         (a)   Each sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area;
         (b)   All such signs shall be removed within seven days after the
election for which they were made; and
         (c)   Property owner shall be held responsible for violations.
      (10)   Temporary real estate signs advertising a specific property for
sale, lease, rent or development shall be located as follows.
         (a)   One sign per street frontage advertising real estate “For Sale”,
“For Rent”, “For Lease” or “For Development” not greater than ten square feet
in area in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district and 64 square feet in area
in non-residential districts may be located on the property being advertised so
long as said sign is located behind the street right-of-way line. If the
property so advertised lies on a corner lot or double frontage lot, then a
second sign may be oriented along the second street so long as the two signs
are at least 100 feet apart as measured by the shortest straight line.
         (b)   In addition to the on-site real estate sign(s), a maximum of
three directional signs, each not exceeding four square feet in area, shall be
permitted off the subject premises. The message of said signs shall be limited
to the name of the property or development being advertised, an address, a
telephone number, a directional arrow, mileage to the subject property and the
terms “Lot/Home For Sale”, “For Rent”, “For Lease”, “For Development” and the
like.
         (c)   No more than three temporary directional signs advertising a
specific planned commercial or mixed use development, subdivision, multi-family
development and the like may also be permitted off-site. Each such sign may
have a maximum area of three square feet.
         (d)   All such temporary signs shall be removed within seven days
after the property has been sold, rented, leased and the like.
         (e)   No sign allowed under this division (B)(10) shall be lighted.
      (11)   Permanent subdivision or planned residential development
identification signs not exceeding 32 square feet;
      (12)   Temporary construction signs; provided that:
         (a)   Signs in conjunction with any residential use shall not exceed
ten square feet each;
         (b)   Signs in conjunction with all other uses shall have a maximum
area of 50 square feet each;
         (c)   Only one such sign oriented per street front per premises shall
be erected. Any two such signs located on the same premises shall be located at
least 100 feet apart as measured by using a straight line;
         (d)   Such signs shall not be illuminated;
         (e)   Such signs shall only appear at the construction site; and
         (f)   Such signs shall be removed within seven days after a completion
of the project.
      (13)   Temporary farm product signs; provided that:
         (a)   One on-premises sign may be used. Said sign shall be located off
the street right-of-way and at least ten feet away from any side lot line. Such
sign shall have a maximum area of nine square feet and may not be illuminated;
         (b)   A maximum of two off-premises signs shall be permitted. Said
off-premises signs may be no greater than four square feet apiece and shall not
be illuminated. No such sign shall be allowed in the street right-of-way, nor
within ten feet of a side lot line; and
         (c)   Portable signs shall not be used for any sign allowed under this
section.
      (14)   Temporary special event signs for religious, charitable, civic,
fraternal or similar non-profit or not-for-profit organizations; provided that:
         (a)   Signs shall be erected no sooner than 30 days prior and removed
no later than two days after the event;
         (b)   Portable signs for such uses may be allowed;
         (c)   No such sign shall exceed 32 square feet;
         (d)   No such sign shall be illuminated; and
         (e)   All such signs shall be located off the street right-of-way,
unless otherwise granted permission for such location by the town or NCDOT. In
no case may any such sign extend onto or over a street pavement or impede the
view of any motorists or pedestrians as per §
155.105 of this chapter. Location of such signs within a road right-of-way
shall be limited to the day of the event.
      (15)   Temporary displays as part of a Christmas, holiday or civic event
so long as any such displays are not located within a street right-of-way
unless permission for such is first granted by the town or NCDOT;
      (16)   One on-premises and three off-premises yard sale signs per yard
sale. All such signs shall be removed within 24 hours after the yard sale has
been terminated. No such sign shall be greater than four square feet in area.
All such signs shall be located off the street right-of-way;
      (17)   Bulletin boards and signs which contains information of a non-
commercial nature. Such bulletin boards and signs may have a maximum area of 75
square feet;
      (18)   Directional signs (for public and semi/public uses only); provided
that:
         (a)   No more than three directional signs per principal use may be
erected. No two directional signs advertising the same principal use shall be
located within 1,000 feet of each other as measured using the straightest short
line distance;
         (b)   All such signs shall be located off the road right-of-way;
         (c)   All such signs greater than three feet in height as measured
from the grade of the road upon which it fronts shall be located outside the
required sight triangle as indicated in §
155.105 of this chapter;
         (d)   All such signs shall not be illuminated;
         (e)   All directional signs shall be free-standing signs. Portable
signs shall be prohibited;
         (f)   There shall be no greater than four directional signs on
separate supports at the intersection of any two roads;
         (g)   More than one sign may be placed on the same supports;
         (h)   No two directional signs hung from separate supports shall be
located within five feet of each other; and
         (i)   The maximum area of any directional sign shall be six square
feet.
      (19)   Other signs containing non-commercial copy messages; provided
that:
         (a)   Such signs have an area of no greater than 32 square feet;
         (b)   Such signs do not fit under the category of prohibited signs
(i.e., §
155.152 of this chapter) with the exception of §
155.152(H) of this chapter (portable signs), §
155.152(I) of this chapter (vehicular signs) and §
155.152(K) of this chapter (roof signs); and
         (c)   Such signs shall not be illuminated.
      (20)   Directory signs; provided that:
         (a)   No sign is located in a road right-of-way;
         (b)   The maximum sign area shall be 40 square feet or one-half the
area of the largest free-standing sign permitted for said use, whichever is
less;
         (c)   Letters do not exceed six inches in height; and
         (d)   Height of sign does not exceed six feet.
      (21)   Window signs;
      (22)   “Warning”, “No Trespassing” and similar informational signs;
      (23)   Signs located within a stadium intended to be read only by persons
seated within the stadium;
      (24)   Permanent municipal, school, recreational signs, schedule of
events, rules and regulations signs. Such signs shall not include
identification signs;
      (25)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to or placed within an
external window or piece of glass that is not legible more than three feet
beyond the building in which it is located;
      (26)   Signs placed on newspaper boxes designed for placement of
delivered newspaper to a particular location;
      (27)   Signs advertising the price of gasoline or designating self
service or full service pumps, so long as such signs are attached to the pump
island or a permitted free-standing sign; and
      (28)   A state vehicle inspections sign, so long as such sign is not
located in any right-of-way.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.7)
§ 155.152 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Any sign which the Zoning Administrator determines obstructs the view
of bicyclists or motorists using any street, approach to any street
intersection, or which interferes with the effectiveness of or obscures any
traffic sign, device or signals shall be prohibited;
   (B)   Illuminated, highly reflective signs or spot lights which hamper the
vision of motorists or bicyclists;
   (C)   Signs which contain lights, rotating disks, words and other devices
not erected by a public authority which may be erroneously construed as
government signs or emergency warning signs. An example of this is a sign which
contains a picture of a traffic sign, plus the word “Stop”, “Yield” and the
like;
   (D)   Any sign located outdoors which interferes with free passage from or
obstructs any fire escape, downspout, window, door, stairway, ladder or opening
intended as a means of ingress or egress or providing light or air;
   (E)   Any sign (other than a government sign), banner or display placed on
any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, hydrant, bridge, tree or other surface located
on, over or across any public street or right-of-way, unless otherwise
permitted;
   (F)   Any sign located in such a way as to intentionally deny an adjoining
property owner visual access to an existing sign;
   (G)   Flashing signs, signs with flashing or reflective disks, signs with
flashing lights or lights of changing degree of intensity or color or signs
with electrically scrolled messages (except government signs and signs which
give time and temperature information). If a time and temperature sign
alternates between a time message and a temperature message, it shall
continuously show one message a minimum of three seconds in time before
switching to the other message;
   (H)   Portable signs, excluding:
      (1)   Temporary signs otherwise permitted in §
155.151(B)(14) of this chapter;
      (2)   Signs containing non-commercial copy messages allowed in §
155.151(B)(19) of this chapter; and
      (3)   Hand portable commercial signs up to four feet by four feet in the
C-B Zoning District (which are brought out at the beginning of the business day
and taken in at the end of the business day).
   (I)   Parked vehicles with messages (exempting vehicles with commercial
advertising which are used regularly and customarily to transport persons or
property for business);
   (J)   Rotating signs, other than on-premises rotating identification names
which contain a logo and/or business name on it;
   (K)   Roof signs (except for signs containing non-commercial copy messages
in §
155.151(B)(10) of this chapter;
   (L)   Billboards on or off the premises;
   (M)   Signs placed on a piece of property without permission of its owners
or agent;
   (N)   Inflatable signs (including inflated balloons having a diameter of
greater than two feet);
   (O)   Other signs not expressly permitted in this chapter; and
   (P)   Any sign whose sign face was initially constructed and designed to be
placed and/or transported on wheels, regardless if said sign face is removed
from its base and placed on or in the ground so as to otherwise classify said
sign as a “free-standing” sign, as herein defined.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 155.153 SIGNS PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-A, R-20, R-10).
   (A)   Signs allowed without a permit are listed in §
155.151 of this chapter. The following signs may be placed in such districts
subsequent to the issuance of a permit by the Zoning Administrator. All other
signs shall be prohibited. Additional specifications for sign placement are
found in §
155.156 of this chapter.
   (B)   Signs on premises of multi-family developments are regulated as
follows:
 
Maximum area of signs     32 square feet apiece
Maximum height
   Free-standing       10 feet
   Wall                Sign shall not be allowed to extend above the parapet
                          of the building
Permitted illumination    L
                          1 per premises per public street front; no 2 signs
Permitted number of signs identifying the same use shall be located closer than
                          200 feet from each other measured by using the
                          shortest straight line distance
Type of signs permitted   Identification (wall or free-standing)
 
   (C)   Signs on premises of churches, schools, community center, park,
playground, public safety station, public library, golf course, club or lodge:
Maximum area 30 square feet per “permitted number of signs”, #1; 15 feet per “permitted
of signs     number of signs”, #2
Maximum height
   Free-  10 feet
standing
   Wall   Sign shall not be allowed to extend above the parapet of the building
Permitted    L
illumination
             1) 1 sign per street front; provided that, no 2 signs are located within a
Permitted    straight line distance of 200 feet
number of    2) In addition, for any use which contains more than 1 principal structure, 1
signs        free-standing identification sign may be placed within 20 feet of each
             building provided that building does not contain any wall identification signs
Type of
signs        Identification (wall or free-standing)
permitted
 
   (D)   Signs on premises of all other uses allowed in residential districts
are regulated as follows:
 
Maximum area of signs     30 square feet
Maximum height
   Free-standing       10 feet
   Wall                Signs shall not be allowed to extend above the
                          parapet of the building
Permitted illumination    L
Permitted number of signs 1 sign only
Type of signs permitted   Identification (wall or free-standing)
 
   (E)   Signs for customary home occupations, rural home occupations, family
day care centers, family care homes, rooming houses: no signs are permitted for
customary home occupations or rural home occupations.
   (F)   Signs for bed and breakfast inns: the type of sign permitted, the
number of signs, the maximum area of signs, illumination and maximum height of
any sign allowed for bed and breakfast inns located in the residential
districts (R-A, R-20, R-10) must be reviewed by the Planning Board and approved
by the Town Council on a parcel by parcel basis.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.9)
§ 155.154 SIGNS PERMITTED IN THE CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-B).
   (A)   Except as otherwise permitted by this chapter, signs in the C-
B District shall be limited to wall, canopy and awning signs.
   (B)   Regulations governing these signs are as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs.
General Location Specific Maximum Number Area Maximum Letter Maximum Height*
                 Location                     Size
General       Specific      Maximum Number Area          Maximum Letter Maximum
Location      Location                                   Size           Height*
              Between first
              window and
              window sill                  2 sq. ft. for
Facades       of second                    each lineal
facing a      floor, or on  1              foot of       16 in.         16 ft.
public street sign frieze                  building wall
              area of                      facing a
              building if                  public street
              original to
              building
Facades                                                  9 in. if above
facing an     Above or                                   doorway; 6 in.
alley or      beside        1              8 sq. ft.     if beside      12 ft.
parking lot,  doorway                                    doorway; 16
or side of                                               in. if no
the building                                             doorway
                                           8 sq. ft.
Outside       Above or                     above         9 in.; 6 in.
entrance to   beside        1              entrance; 2   if beside      12 ft.
upper floors  entrance                     sq. ft. if    entrance
                                           beside
                                           entrance
              First floor   2              20% of total  6 inches       8 ft.
              windows                      window space
Windows       Upper floor
              windows, if   1              50% of window 8 in.          NA
              different                    size
              business
Front of      For
building      historical    1              4 sq. ft.     4 in.          6 ft.
              plaque
NOTES TO TABLE:
* As measured from the top of the sign to the sidewalk
 
      (2)   Canopy and awning signs.
         (a)   A sign message on a canopy or awning shall contain only the name
of the business, street address and/or the type of business, type of goods sold
or services rendered.
            1.   Each business is permitted up to one sign hung under a canopy
or awning provided the message on the sign is perpendicular to the building and
the sign is at least eight and one half feet above the surface of the sidewalk
and is no more than four square feet in size.
            2.   If a wall sign is not used, a business is permitted to use up
to one canopy or awning sign. Said sign may be of either of the following types
of canopy or awning signs:
               a.   A canopy or awning sign along a canopy or awning edge
(fringe or drip-flap) for fabric canopies or awnings or vertical facia surface
(in the case of a rigid canopy or awning); provided, the message does not
exceed ten inches in height nor extend in any direction above, below or beyond
the canopy edge; and
               b.   A canopy or awning sign above the edge of the canopy or
awning on the surface of the canopy or awning covering; provided, the signing
is within the parallel edges of the canopy or awning covering and is an
integral part of the canopy or awning covering.
         (b)   Signage on the canopy or awning sign shall be limited to no
greater than one-half of the area bounded by the edges of the canopy or awning
not including any drip flap or vertical facia surface. If signage is only found
in fringe drip-flap portion of the canopy, the entire portion of said area may
be utilized for signage.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.10)
§ 155.155 SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL G-B, M-1 AND M-2 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following are regulations for all wall signs and free-standing
signs for all uses except that such regulations shall not be applicable to
free-standing signs in shopping centers, business parks, office buildings and
other commercial multi-tenant developments and out parcels in said
developments. Signs allowed without a permit are found in §
155.152 of this chapter. Certain pole signs are also allowed in the G-B, M-
1 and M-2 Zoning Districts and are regulated by §
155.156(C) of this chapter. Wall signs shall also be governed per §
155.155(A) of this chapter; free-standing signs per §
155.156(B) of this chapter. Supplemental directory/directional signs are
permitted per §
155.156(C) of this chapter. All other signs are prohibited:
                          Wall: a maximum of 10% of the wall area of any wall
                          on the building; except as provided herein and in
Maximum area of signs     division (A) above, in no instance shall any
                          principal use be allowed to have an aggregate wall
                          sign area in excess of 100 square feet
                          Free-standing: 50 square feet
                          Wall: signs shall not be allowed to extend above the
Maximum height            parapet of the building
                          Free-standing: 20 feet
Permitted illumination    L
                          Wall: no limit
                          Free-standing: a free-standing sign shall not be
                          permitted if the principal structure containing the
                          use identified for the sign is located less than 30
                          feet from the edge of that portion of the road right-
Permitted number of signs of-way parallel to the architectural front of said
                          structure; otherwise, 1 only is permitted, except 2
                          shall be permitted if the principal use has direct
                          access from 2 or more public roads; if 2 signs are
                          allowed, they shall be located at least 200 feet
                          apart as measured using the shortest straight-line
                          distance between the 2 signs
Types of sign permitted   Business, identification
 
   (B)   Shopping center and other multi-tenant identification signs:
 
Maximum area 64 square feet, except 25 feet for any sign allowed per “permitted number of
of signs     signs”, #2
Permitted    20 feet, except 10 feet for any sign allowed per “permitted number of signs”, #2
height
Permitted    L
illumination
             1) A shopping center which contains 2 or more non-residential uses located in a
             unified building or group of buildings may have 1 free- standing identification
             sign giving the name of the development and/or the name of the businesses and
Permitted    other uses occupying the development
number of    2) Notwithstanding #1 above, if the development consists of: 2 or more multi-
signs        tenant principal buildings; access to each tenant in a building is made by a
             common entrance; and no wall signs identifying any of the buildings tenants are
             placed on the building; then 1 free-standing sign which identifies the tenants of
             the building may also be placed within 20 feet from the edge of the building
Types of     Identification (for the shopping center itself and for the uses located within
sign         the shopping center other than in outparcel lots)
permitted
 
   (C)   Detached signs on outparcels of shopping centers, office parks and
other commercial multi-tenant developments shall be regulated as follows:
 
                          At least 10 feet behind edge right-of-way line; said
Location                  sign may only be placed on the outparcel lot and not
                          elsewhere in the development
Maximum area of sign      25 square feet
Maximum height            10 feet
Permitted illumination    L
Permitted number of signs 1 per outparcel
                          Ground mounted identification (such sign shall only
Type of sign permitted    be permitted if all applicable parking and yard
                          requirements for that lot are met by the use and
                          structure occupying said lot)
 
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.11)
§ 155.156 SPECIFICATIONS FOR SIGNS REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   The following are general specifications applicable to the various permitted
signs. (Additional specifications regarding size, number, location and
permitted types of signs are set forth in the individual zoning districts.)
   (A)   Wall sign.
      (1)   The maximum permitted aggregate area of wall signs per premises may
be increased beyond that which is normally allowed using either (but not both)
of the following methods.
         (a)   If a free-standing identification sign is not used on the
premises, the aggregate area of wall signs may be increased by a maximum of 50%
per premises in all zoning districts, except the C-B District.
         (b)   The aggregate area of all wall signs per premises may be
increased based on the distance, the principal building is set back from the
required front setback line. Said increase shall be in accordance with the
following table:
Principal Building Distance Setback from Allowed Aggregate Wall Sign Area
the Required Front Setback               Increase
Principal Building Distance Setback from Allowed Aggregate Wall Sign Area
the Required Front Setback               Increase
0 - 49 feet                              0%
50 - 99 feet                             25%
100 - 149 feet                           50%
150 - 199 feet                           75%
200 - 249 feet                           100%
250 - 299 feet                           125%
300 - 349 feet                           150%
350 - 399 feet                           175%
400 feet or more                         200%
 
      (2)   No wall sign shall project more than 18 inches from the building
wall. Further, no wall sign or its supporting structure shall cover any window
or part of a window.
      (3)   (a)   Canopy and awning signs may be substituted for part or all of
the allowable wall signage per premises.
         (b)   Signs may be painted or printed onto a canopy or awning.
         (c)   In no instance shall a canopy or awning sign extend into a
street right-of-way.
         (d)   This division (A)(3) shall not apply to the C-B District.
         (e)   For canopy and awning sign regulations for the C-B District, see
§
155.154 of this chapter.
      (4)   A projecting sign may be substituted for part or all of the
allowable wall signage per premises. A projecting sign shall not project more
than four feet from a building. In no instance shall a projecting sign extend
into a street right-of-way.
   (B)   Free-standing signs.
      (1)   All free-standing signs shall be located behind and not extend into
the street right-of-way, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter. All
signs greater than two and one-half feet in height as measured from the grade
of the road or having a vertical clearance of less than ten feet shall be
located a minimum of five feet behind the street right-of-way (unless a greater
setback is provided elsewhere in this chapter).
      (2)   No free-standing sign greater than five square feet in area shall
be located closer than to ten feet to any adjacent lot line. A 20-foot side-
yard setback shall be required if the side lot line abuts a residential (R-A,
R-20, R-10) district. Greater setbacks shall be provided if otherwise required.
   (C)   Supplemental directory/directional signs.
      (1)   (a)   In order to maintain the flow of traffic on arterial and
collector roads and to promote vehicular safety, emphasis is made to limit the
number of ingress and egress points off of such roads.
         (b)   In order to direct attention to planned multi-tenant
developments which are not directly accessible off of such roads and where on-
premises signage for that development (or any tenants within the development)
would not otherwise be visible by the motorists traveling on nearby arterial or
collector roads, provisions are made to provide directory signs which identify
the name of the particular development and/or the names of their tenants.
         (c)   Such signs would be supplemental to signage otherwise provided
for such developments.
      (2)   For any shopping center, office park, industrial park or similar
planned multi-tenant non-residential development, supplemental directory/
directional signs may be erected under the following conditions.
         (a)   Access to the development is made only through a local street.
There shall no direct points of ingress and egress to the development off an
arterial or collector road.
         (b)   A maximum of two supplemental directory/directional signs per
development shall be allowed. No two signs shall be allowed closer than 500
feet to each other using the closest straight line measurement.
         (c)   No such sign shall be placed within a road right-of-way nor
within five feet of said right-of-way. All such directory signs shall be
ground-mounted.
         (d)   The sign may contain the name of the development, a map of the
development, names of tenants within the development, directional arrows and
distance information.
         (e)   The size of each directory sign shall be a function of the
number of tenants within the development. Each such sign may initially contain
an area of 40 square feet or ten square feet per principal use within the
development, whichever is greater, with a maximum area of 80 square feet.
         (f)   Such signs may be placed on or off the premises. All such signs
shall be constructed and located, however, so as to be visible by the motorist
traveling on the arterial or collector road which intersects with the local
road providing access to the development.
         (g)   Such signs shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.170 GENERAL.
   This subchapter provides for a number of uses to be located by right in each
general zoning district subject to the use meeting certain area, height, yard
and off-street parking and loading requirements. In addition to these uses,
this subchapter allows some uses to be allowed in these districts on a
conditional basis subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit by the
Town Council. The purpose of having such uses being “conditional” is to ensure
that they would be compatible with surrounding development and in keeping with
the purposes of the general zoning district in which they are located and would
meet other criteria as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.1)
§ 155.171 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A conditional use permit application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan, drawn to
scale and necessary supporting text which shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the property owner (or his or her
agent) and the tax parcel number of the property; (Note: the property owner or
his or her authorized agent are the only two parties who may initiate a request
for a conditional use permit.)
      (2)   A boundary survey and vicinity map, showing the property’s total
acreage, zoning classification(s), general location in relation to adjoining
streets, railroads and/or waterways; date and north arrow;
      (3)   The owners’ names and addresses, tax parcel numbers and existing
land use(s) of all adjoining properties;
      (4)   Proposed use of all land and structures including the number of
residential units (if applicable);
      (5)   Proposed number and location of all structures, their approximate
area and their approximate exterior dimensions;
      (6)   A description of all screening and landscaping required by these
regulations and/or proposed by the applicant;
      (7)   All existing easements, reservations and rights-of-way;
      (8)   Proposed phasing, if any, and approximate completion time for the
project;
      (9)   Delineation of areas within the regulatory floodplain as shown on
the official Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Hazard Boundary
Maps for Stanly County;
      (10)   Traffic, parking and circulation plans, showing the proposed
location and arrangement of parking spaces and ingress and egress to adjacent
streets; and
      (11)   Proposed signs and their approximate size, type and location.
   (B)   In the course of evaluating the proposed use, the Planning Board and/
or Town Council may request additional information from the applicant. A
request for such additional information shall stay any further consideration of
the application by the Town Council or Planning Board. This information may
include (but shall not be limited to) the following:
      (1)   Storm water drainage plan;
      (2)   Existing and proposed topography at five-foot contour intervals or
less, if the present terrain is not typical of the area or requires excessive
clearing and grading;
      (3)   The existing and proposed location of all water and sewer lines and
fire hydrants intended to serve the proposed development;
      (4)   A traffic impact study of the proposed development prepared by a
qualified transportation or traffic engineer or planner. The traffic impact
study shall include the following information:
         (a)   Existing traffic conditions within the study area boundary;
         (b)   Traffic volumes generated by the existing and proposed
development on the parcel, including the morning peak, afternoon or evening
peak, and average annual daily traffic levels;
         (c)   The distribution of existing and proposed trips through the
street network;
         (d)   Analyses of the capacities of intersections located within the
study area boundary;
         (e)   Recommendations for improvements designed to mitigate traffic
impacts and to enhance pedestrian access to the development from the public
right-of-way; and
         (f)   Other pertinent information, including, but not limited to,
accidents, noise and impacts of air quality and other natural resources.
      (5)   An environmental impact statement which contains the following
information:
         (a)   A cover sheet which provides, in summary form, a description of
the proposed project;
         (b)   A statement of purpose and need of the project;
         (c)   For projects proposed by public entities, a list of alternatives
of the proposed project;
         (d)   A succinct description of the environment affected by the
project;
         (e)   A discussion of short and long term consequences of the project
on the environmental including any adverse environmental impacts which cannot
be avoided; and
         (f)   A list of means which could be employed to mitigate any negative
effects on the environment caused by this project.
   (C)   No application shall be deemed complete unless it contains or is
accompanied by all items listed in division (A) above (and as may be required
in division (B) above) and a fee, in accordance with a fee schedule approved by
the Town Council for the submittal of conditional use permit applications.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.2)
§ 155.172 PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   Once complete, the Zoning Administrator shall refer the conditional
use application to the Planning Board for review and recommendation to the Town
Council. Except as provided in §
155.172(B) of this chapter, the Planning Board shall review the application at
its next scheduled meeting, as long as it is at least ten days in advance of
meeting date.
   (B)   The Planning Board may, in its review, suggest reasonable conditions
to the location, nature and extent of the proposed use and its relationship to
surrounding properties, parking areas, driveways, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation systems, screening and landscaping, timing of development and any
other conditions the Planning Board may find appropriate. Such conditions may
include dedication of any rights-of-way or easements for streets, water, sewer
or other public utilities necessary to serve the proposed development.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall forward its recommendation with any suggested
conditions to the Town Council within 45 days of its first meeting date. If a
recommendation is not made within 45 days, the application shall be forwarded
to the Town Council without a recommendation from the Planning Board.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.3)
§ 155.173 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   In order for the Town Council to approve a conditional use permit, a
public hearing must be held by the Town Council.
   (B)   Notice of said public hearing shall be as follows.
      (1)   A notice shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town. The first notice to be published not less than ten
days, nor more than 25 days, prior to the date established for the hearing.
      (2)   At least one notice shall be conspicuously posted on the subject
property at least ten days prior to the public hearing. Such notice shall state
the nature of the public hearing and the date, time and location at which it is
to be held. The notice shall be removed only after the public hearing has been
held.
      (3)   A notice of the public hearing shall be sent by first class mail by
the Zoning Administrator to all contiguous property owners at least ten days
prior to the public hearing.
      (4)   A notice of the public hearing shall be posted at Town Hall.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.4)
§ 155.174 TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Once the public hearing has been conducted, the petition shall be
placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
      (2)   In approving an application for a conditional use permit, the Town
Council may attach fair and reasonable conditions to the approval. The
petitioner will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
additional requirements prior to approval or denial by the Town Council. In no
instance shall any of these conditions be less restrictive than any
requirements which would pertain to that particular development found elsewhere
in a similar zoning district.
   (B)   Burden of proof. The applicant has the burden of producing competent,
material and substantial evidence tending to establish the facts and conditions
which divisions (C)(2) and (C)(4) below require. If any person submits evidence
allegedly contrary to any of the facts or conditions listed in divisions (C)(1)
and (C)(3) below, the burden of proof for overcoming such evidence shall rest
with the applicant.
   (C)   Determination. The Town Council shall issue a conditional use permit
if it has evaluated an application and determined that:
      (1)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety if
located where proposed and developed according to plan;
      (2)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications;
      (3)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property unless the use is a public necessity; and
      (4)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and will be in general conformity with the adopted Town
Land Use Plan and other plans for physical development of the town’s area as
adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.5)
§ 155.175 ADDITIONAL REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   General. In addition to evaluating an application for a conditional
use permit on the items listed in §
155.174(C) of this chapter, the Town Council shall consider other review
criteria for certain types of development. A finding that said criteria listed
herein and those listed in §
155.174(C) of this chapter must be made by the Town Council before a
conditional use permit is issued by the Town Council.
   (B)   Manufacturing goods, Class 2.
      (1)   The use will not overly impact the ability of a public agency to
collect and/or treat any wastewater generated by the use or the ability of the
public agency to treat and distribute any potable water needed by the use.
      (2)   The use will not overly impact (impact beyond capacity) the system
of streets serving the use or that improvements will be made to such streets in
consort with the development of said use, the result of which will be adequate
handling of the additional traffic generated.
      (3)   Not only will the use meet the minimum screening requirements of
this chapter, but also that such additional screening will be installed, as
necessitated by the visual characteristics of the particular use, such that the
use will be screened from view of adjoining residential districts, or that the
nature of the topography makes the screening from distant view from such
residential areas impossible and that other measures such as heavy on-site
landscaping will be taken to lessen any near or distant visual impacts.
   (C)   Shopping centers, planned residential or mixed-use developments.
      (1)   Sufficient on-site parking for floor area or number of residential
units including guest or storage spaces;
      (2)   Internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation shall be
satisfactory;
      (3)   Proposed ingress/egress points must meet State Department of
Transportation requirements, must provide adequate sight distance and must
provide additional turn lanes and traffic lights if traffic warrants; and
      (4)   Additional screening and landscaping in excess of §§
155.095 through
155.107 of this chapter for noise and visual impact reduction for adjacent
residences, schools or business concerns may be required.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.6)
§ 155.176 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   If an application for a conditional use permit is approved by the Town
Council, the owner of the property shall have the ability to:
   (A)   Develop the use in accordance with the stipulations contained in the
conditional use permit; or
   (B)   Develop any other use listed as a “permitted use” for the general
zoning district in which it is located.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.7)
§ 155.177 BINDING EFFECT.
   (A)   Any conditional use permit so authorized shall be perpetually binding
to the property included in such permit unless subsequently changed or amended
by the Town Council.
   (B)   However, minor changes in the detail of the approved application
which:
      (1)   Will not alter the basic relationship of the proposed development
to adjacent property;
      (2)   Will not increase the gross floor area of any non-residential use
by the smaller of 10% or 10,000 square feet; and
      (3)   Will not decrease the off-street parking ratio or reduce the yards
provided at the periphery of the site by greater than five feet may be made
with the approval of the Zoning Administrator on a one-time basis only. Further
changes to the development may only be made by the Town Council in accordance
with §
155.172 of this chapter.
   (C)   For example, if a conditional use permit is issued for a building
having a gross floor area of 100,000 square feet, under this provision the
property owner could (subject to approval of the Zoning Administrator)
construct a building with a gross floor area of up to 110,000 square feet. If
the property owner subsequently had his or her conditional use permit amended
authorizing him or her to construct a building of up to 150,000 square feet,
the Zoning Administrator could allow the construction of a building having a
gross area of up to 160,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.8)
§ 155.178 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for a use listed as a conditional use shall be
issued for any building or land use on a piece of property which has received a
conditional use permit for such particular use unless the building is
constructed or used, or the land is developed or used, in conformity with the
conditional use permit approved by the Town Council. In the event that only a
segment of a proposed development has been approved, the certificate of
occupancy shall be issued only for that portion of the development constructed
or used as approved.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.9)
§ 155.179 12-MONTH LIMITATION ON RE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   If a request for conditional use permit is denied by the Town Council,
a similar application for the same property or any portion thereof shall not be
filed until the expiration of a 12-month period from the date of the most
recent denial by the Town Council. This waiting period shall not be applicable
where the application for a conditional use permit is substantially different
from the original application.
   (B)   The term SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT, as herein applied, shall mean:
      (1)   The proposed principal use is different than the use contained in
the original application; or
      (2)   The gross floor area of the proposed development is 50% or more
smaller than contained in the original application.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.10)
§ 155.180 CHANGE IN CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Any request to materially change the conditional use permit once it has been
issued must first be reviewed by the Planning Board in accordance with §
155.172 of this chapter. The Town Council may, thereafter, change or amend any
previously approved conditional use permit, only after having held a public
hearing. Notice of public hearing shall be in accordance with §
155.173 of this chapter. Amendment by the Town Council of a previously issued
conditional use permit shall be subject to the same considerations as provided
for in §
155.172 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.11)
§ 155.181 IMPLEMENTATION OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP).
   Unless the Town Council issues a conditional use permit which either is
specifically exempt from any time constraints or has some other specified time
period for implementation, the applicant must secure a valid building permit
within a 12-month period from date of issuance of the conditional use permit.
In addition, if the project for which a CUP was issued is not complete and a
valid building permit is not in place at the end of said 12-month period, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of either such finding, and
within 60 days of said notification, the Planning Board shall make a
recommendation concerning the rescission of the conditional use permit to the
Town Council. The Town Council, after having conducted a public hearing to
consider the rescission, may then rescind the conditional use permit, or extend
the life of the conditional use permit for a specified period of time. Due
notice of said public hearing shall be given as prescribed in §
155.173 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9.12)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.195 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to set forth procedures for amending the
text of these regulations and the zoning classification of land as shown on the
zoning map. The purpose is not to relieve particular hardships, nor to confer
special privileges or rights on any person, but only to make adjustments
necessary in light of changed conditions or changes in public policy.
Procedures for making amendments to this chapter’s text or map are described
herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.196 AUTHORITY.
   Upon compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, the Town Council
shall have the authority to amend or repeal the text of these regulations and
the classification of any parcel of land, as indicated on the zoning map.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.1)
§ 155.197 INITIATION.
   (A)   Any amendment, may be initiated by the Town Council or Planning Board
on its own resolution, by any owner of a legal or equitable interest in the
property affected by the amendment, or by a local government agency of the town
or by any other person living or owning property within the zoning jurisdiction
of the town, in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
   (B)   When considering a petition for the re-classification of property to
any district, neither the Planning Board, nor the Town Council, shall evaluate
the petition based on any specific proposal for the use or development of the
affected property and the petitioner shall refrain from using any graphic
materials or descriptions of the proposed use or development, except for those
which would apply to any use permitted in the requested district.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.2)
§ 155.198 FILING OF PETITIONS; DETERMINATION OF COMPLETENESS.
   For a re-classification of property proposed by any person or entity other
than the Planning Board or Town Council, or for petition to change the text of
this chapter, such petition shall be on an application form prescribed by the
Zoning Administrator and accompanied by the fee established by the Town
Council. Said application form and fee shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. Said application form and fee shall be waived for any petition
submitted by any town official or agency acting on behalf of the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.3)
§ 155.199 CONTENT OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each non-contiguous parcel of land for which rezoning is requested
shall be deemed as a separate application, and said application fee shall
accompany each application. For the purpose of this division (A), land located
and adjacent on either side to the rear and all property directly across any
street or public right-of-way from the subject property shall be deemed to be
contiguous.
   (B)   Each application for a rezoning of land shall be accompanied by two
copies of a map, drawn to scale, with the following information either shown on
the map or accompanying it:
      (1)   The subject property plus such additional property as to show the
location of the subject property with reference to the nearest street
intersection, railroad, stream or other feature easily identifiable on the
ground. In addition, all property lines which abut the property, and property
owners’ names and addresses of all contiguous properties, shall be furnished;
      (2)   If the property is in a subdivision of record, a map of such
portion of the subdivision that would relate the subject property to the
closest street intersection and, in addition, the name of the subdivision and
the plat addition, the names and addresses of all adjoining property owners (as
indicated on the most up-to-date tax listings) shall be furnished;
      (3)   The dimensions of the property to be rezoned, including total
acreage and the property deed number reference and page number shall be on the
map;
      (4)   The present and proposed zoning classification of the lot(s) in
question; and
      (5)   The property identification number(s) of the lot(s) in question as
issued by the county’s Tax Department.
   (C)   An application for a change in the text of this chapter shall be made
in duplicate, on an application form provided by the Zoning Administrator. The
application shall contain a reference to the specific section, division,
paragraph or item proposed to be changed, as well as the wording of the
proposed change and the reasons therefor.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.4)
§ 155.200 PLANNING BOARD REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   Once the petition is complete, the Zoning Administrator shall refer
the petition to the Planning Board for review and recommendation to the Town
Council. The Planning Board shall have a maximum of 45 days from the date it
first meets to make such recommendation. If a recommendation is not made during
said time period, the application shall be forwarded to the Town Council
without a recommendation from the Planning Board.
   (B)   If a recommendation is made to the Town Council by the Planning Board
concerning a petition for rezoning, said recommendation shall be as follows:
      (1)   Grant the rezoning as requested;
      (2)   Grant the rezoning with a reduction of the area requested;
      (3)   Grant the rezoning to a more restrictive general zoning district or
districts;
      (4)   Grant the rezoning with a combination of divisions (B)(1), (B)(2)
or (B)(3) above; or
      (5)   Recommend that the application be denied.
   (C)   The list of general zoning districts in descending order of
restrictiveness shall be:
 
R-A (most restrictive)
R-20
R-10
C-B
G-B
M-1
M-2 (least restrictive)
 
   (D)   If a recommendation is made to the Town Council by the Planning Board
concerning a petition to amend the text of this chapter, it shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Adoption of the amendment as written;
      (2)   Adoption of the amendment as revised by the Planning Board; or
      (3)   Rejection of the amendment.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.5)
§ 155.201 SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PERIODS.
   (A)   In order for an amendment to this chapter’s text or a change in the
zoning classification affecting the zoning map to be made in accordance with
this chapter, a public hearing must first be held by the Town Council.
   (B)   Notification of the public hearing shall be as follows.
      (1)   A notice shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town once a week, for two successive weeks, the first notice
to be published not less than ten days, nor more than 25 days prior to the date
established for the hearing. If first-class mail notification is not required
as per division (B)(3) below, then the town shall publish a notice in
accordance with the requirements stated in division (B)(3) below.
      (2)   If a change of zoning on the zoning map is requested, the Zoning
Administrator shall place at least one notice on the subject property(ies) at
least ten days prior to the public hearing. Such notice shall state the
existing zoning classification and the classification requested by the
applicant and the date, time and location of the public hearing. The notice
shall be removed only after the public hearing has been conducted and the Town
Council has rendered its final decision.
      (3)   A notice of a proposed zoning classification change on the zoning
map shall be sent by first class mail by the Zoning Administrator to all
contiguous property owners for all such requests, except the first class mail
notice shall not be required in the following situations:
         (a)   The total rezoning of all property within the corporate
boundaries unless rezoning involves zoning parcels of land to a less intense or
more restrictive uses. If rezoning involves zoning of parcels of land to less
intense or more restrictive uses, notification to owners of these parcels shall
be made by first class mail;
         (b)   The rezoning action directly affects more than 50 properties,
owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners; or
         (c)   The rezoning is an amendment to the zoning text.
   (C)   If first class notice is not required in this section, then the town
shall publish a notice once a week for four successive calendar weeks in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town. Such notice shall include a
map showing the boundaries of the area affected by the proposed ordinance or
amendment. The map shall not be less than one-half of a newspaper page in size
and the Zoning Administrator shall send first class mail notices of the
proposed ordinance or amendment to all property owners who reside outside the
town’s jurisdiction or outside of the newspaper circulation area, according to
the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall certify to the town that the proper
first class mail notifications were made to required property owners.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.6)
§ 155.202 TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   In case of protest against an amendment, duly signed by the owners of
20% or more either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change or
of those immediately adjacent thereto, either in the rear thereof or on either
side thereof, extending 100 feet therefrom or of those directly opposite
thereto extending 100 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such
amendment shall not become effective, except by favorable vote of three-fourths
of all the members of the Town Council.
   (B)   (1)   Once the public hearing has been conducted, the Town Council
shall render a decision on the petition.
      (2)   The decision of the Town Council shall be in the form of any of the
various options listed in §
155.200(C)(1) or (C)(2) of this chapter.
      (3)   Alternatively, the Town Council may send the application back to
the Planning Board for further study and consideration.
      (4)   The petitioner shall have the right to withdraw his or her petition
at any time prior to the final decision being rendered by the Town Council.
      (5)   The Town Council shall have the authority to call for additional
public hearings on any amended petition brought before it.
      (6)   The 45-day Planning Board review period shall be in effect after
the close of the first and any subsequent public hearings called for by the
Town Council on a particular amendment.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.7)
§ 155.203 NOTIFICATION OF DECISION.
   (A)   Once a public hearing has been held and closed, and a final
determination made by the Town Council, said decision shall be sent by first
class mail by the Zoning Administrator to the applicant and any persons at or
before the public hearing who have indicated in writing to the Zoning
Administrator that they would like the decision mailed to them, within five
working days following the date of said decision.
   (B)   Similarly, notice shall be sent to the applicant in the same manner if
the Town Council makes a decision to re-submit the petition to the Planning
Board for further review.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.8)
§ 155.204 RE-SUBMISSION OF PETITION.
   (A)   If the Town Council has denied an application for the rezoning of a
piece of property or has approved a rezoning to a general zoning district which
is more restrictive than that which was originally requested, the Planning
Board shall not review any applications for the same changes affecting the same
property or any portion thereof until the expiration of one year from the date
of such previous denial, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may allow re-submission of such petition
within said one-year period if he or she determines that, since the date of
action on the prior petition:
      (1)   There has been a significant change in the zoning district
classification of an adjacent piece of property;
      (2)   The Town Council has adopted a plan that changes public policy
regarding how the property affected by the amendment should be developed;
      (3)   Construction or expansion of a road, water line, sewer line or
other such facilities has occurred to serve the property and can comfortably
accommodate the intensity of development allowed under the proposed
classification; or
      (4)   There has been some other extraordinary change in conditions or
circumstances, outside the control of the petitioner, which justifies waiver of
the one-year restriction on a new petition; this, however, shall not include a
change in the ownership of the subject property.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10.9)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.215 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the
Zoning Administrator and any other officials designated by the Town Council for
the administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Zoning inspection; duties specified.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to grant an
extension of a temporary use permit for manufactured homes, as per §
155.061 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions of
this chapter are being violated, he or she shall cause notification, in
writing, to the owner of the property upon which such violation is located,
indicating the nature of the violation and order that necessary actions be
taken to correct the deficiency. He or she shall order discontinuance’s of
illegal uses of land, buildings or structures, removal of illegal buildings or
structures or of illegal additions, alterations or structural changes and
discontinuance of any illegal work being done. The Zoning Administrator shall
take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure its compliance.
      (3)   Additional written notices of violation may be sent by the Zoning
Administrator at his or her discretion. The final written notice (such final
notice may be the initial written notice) shall state the action which the
Zoning Administrator intends to take if the violation is not corrected and
shall advise that the Zoning Administrator decision may be appealed to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
155.240 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.1)
§ 155.216 ZONING PERMIT.
   No building, sign or other structure (except as otherwise for in this
chapter) shall be erected, moved, extended or enlarged or structurally altered,
nor shall any excavation or filling of any lot for the construction of any
building be commenced until the Zoning Administrator has issued a zoning permit
for such work in accordance with a fee schedule established by the Town
Council.
   (A)   Expiration of zoning permit. Any zoning permit issued in accordance
with this chapter will lapse and become invalid unless the work for which it
was issued is started within six months of the date of issue, or if the work
authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a period of at least one year.
   (B)   Records.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all zoning
permits on file at his or her office and copies shall be made available on
request to interested parties.
      (2)   The County Planning Director shall keep records on development
activities on all lots located within a Water Supply Watershed Overlay District
having a maximum prescribed built-upon area.
      (3)   The County Planning Director shall maintain files on all minor and
major variances concerning property located within a Water Supply Watershed
Overlay District. A copy of information pertinent to any minor variance
application request concerning property located within a Water Supply Watershed
Overlay District (including minutes of the hearing, findings made by the Board
of Adjustment, actions taken by the Board of Adjustment, names and addresses of
all persons giving evidence at the public hearing) shall be submitted annually
during the last week of December to Division of Environmental Management,
Supervisor of the Classification and Standards Group.
   (C)   Conditions for approval.
      (1)   Zoning permits issued on the basis of dimensional plans approved by
the Zoning Administrator authorize only the use, arrangement and construction
set forth in such approved plans and applications.
      (2)   Use, arrangement or construction which differ from that authorized
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as
indicated under §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Zoning permit not required. Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this chapter, no zoning permit is necessary for the following uses:
      (1)   Street construction or repair;
      (2)   Electric power, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water
and sewer lines, wires or pipes, together with supporting poles or structures,
located within a public right-of-way;
      (3)   Specific signs exempted in §
155.151 of this chapter; or
      (4)   Mailboxes, newspaper boxes, walls, fences, birdhouses, flag poles,
pump covers and doghouses under 15 square feet of gross floor area.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.2)
§ 155.217 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No structure hereafter erected, moved, structurally altered or changed in
use shall be used or occupied until a certificate of occupancy has been issued
by the County Building Inspector. Any certificate of occupancy issued shall
state that the structure or portion of a structure is in compliance with the
information stated on the zoning permit and with all applicable provisions of
this chapter. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
in the office of the County Building Inspector and copies shall be furnished,
on request, to all interested parties. If a certificate of occupancy is denied,
the reasons for such denial shall be specified in writing and provided to the
applicant.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.3)
§ 155.218 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   If a request for a zoning permit is disapproved or if a ruling of the Zoning
Administrator is questioned, any aggrieved party may appeal such ruling to the
Board of Adjustment in accordance with §
155.240 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.4)
§ 155.219 REMEDIES.
   In case any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained in violation of this chapter as herein
provided, an action for injunction, or mandamus, or other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent such violation may be instituted by:
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator;
   (B)   The County Building Inspector;
   (C)   Any other appropriate town authority; or
   (D)   Any person who may be damaged by such violation.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.5)
§ 155.220 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint. Any written complaint stating fully
the cause and basis thereof shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator who
shall properly record such complaint, immediately investigate and take action
as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.6)
§ 155.221 EARLY VESTING OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS UPON APPROVAL OF SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1 and not withstanding any other provision
of this chapter or amendment thereto, a landowner may apply for a site specific
development plan approval which shall entitle said landowner to develop
property in accordance with said site specific development plan.
   (B)   The procedure for establishing a vested right is set forth in this
section.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         LANDOWNER. Any owner of a legal or equitable interest in real
property, including the heirs, devisees, successors, assigns and personal
representative of such owner. The landowner may allow a person holding a valid
option to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for purposes of
submitting a proposed site specific development plan in the manner allowed by
this chapter.
         PROPERTY. All real property subject to zoning regulations and
restrictions and within the jurisdiction of the town.
         VESTED RIGHT. The right to undertake and complete the development and
use of property under the terms and conditions of an approved site specific
development plan.
      (2)   Submission of a site specific development plan.
         (a)   To apply for vested right, a landowner shall first submit to the
Zoning Administrator a site specific development plan. The plan shall be
submitted in completed form (i.e., contain all information as herein
prescribed) with a fee (in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the Town
Council) and an accompanying application which, at a minimum, contains the
following information: all information listed in §
155.171 of this chapter.
         (b)   Once the Zoning Administrator deems the site specific
development plan to be complete, he or she shall schedule it to be reviewed by
the Planning Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Zoning
Administrator must receive the complete plan at least ten days prior to the
Planning Board’s next meeting date to place it on its agenda.
      (3)   Planning Board review and recommendation. Once the site specific
development plan is forwarded, the Planning Board shall review the application
and make a recommendation to the Town Council. The Planning Board shall have up
to 45 days from its first meeting date to make such recommendation.
Alternatively, the Planning Board could request additional information of the
applicant in order to aid it in its review of the application. Such information
may include (but not be limited to) that listed in §
155.171 of this chapter. If no recommendation is made during said 45-day period
(except as herein provided), the application shall forthwith be forwarded to
the Town Council without a recommendation.
      (4)   Public hearing. Upon receipt of the plan and the recommendation
from the Planning Board, if one is forthcoming, the Town Council shall schedule
a public hearing. Notice of the Town Council public hearing shall be given as
follows.
         (a)   A notice shall be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in town once a week, for two successive weeks, the first notice to
be published not less than ten days, nor more than 25 days, prior to the date
established for the hearing.
         (b)   At least one notice shall be conspicuously posted on the subject
property at least ten days prior to the public hearing. Such notice shall state
the nature of the public hearing and the date, time and location at which it is
to be held. The notice shall be removed only after the public hearing has been
held.
         (c)   A notice of the public hearing shall be sent by first class mail
by the Zoning Administrator to all contiguous property owners at least ten days
prior to the public hearing.
      (5)   Town Council action.
         (a)   Once the public hearing has been conducted and concluded, the
Town Council shall determine whether or not to approve the site-specific
development plan and accord the vested right. In approving an application for
vested rights of a site specific development plan, the Town Council may attach
fair and reasonable ad hoc conditions which tend to support the requiring
finding of facts as herein listed. The petitioner shall be given reasonable
opportunity to consider and respond to any additional requirements prior to
approval or denial by the Town Council. The Town Council may not require the
landowner to waive his or her vested right as a condition of developmental
approval.
         (b)   The Town Council may approve the site specific development plan
if it has evaluated an application and determined that:
            1.   The use meets all required specifications of this chapter;
            2.   The use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety and will not substantially injure the value of adjoining property if
located where proposed. Conditions, if any, placed on the site specific
development plan by the Town Council shall be adequate to meet this
requirement; and
            3.   If the site specific development plan is vested for a period
of greater than two years, this shall be based on one or more factors so
described in division (B)(6) below.
         (c)   The burden of proof of producing evidence to support these
findings (and to overcome any challenges that approval of the site plan would
be contrary to one or more of these findings) shall rest entirely with the
landowner.
         (d)   If the use or development for which the site specific
development plan is submitted is a conditional use, the Town Council may
approve the site specific development plan contemporaneously with the approval
of the conditional use permit. In no case, however, may a site specific
development plan be approved for a use or development which requires the
issuance of a conditional use permit without the conditional use permit having
first been issued.
      (6)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   The effect of the Town Council approving a site-specific
development plan shall be to vest such site plan for a period of two years from
the date of approval. If the landowner requests, however, the Town Council may
approve a vesting period not to exceed five years from the date of approval.
The vesting of any site plan beyond a two-year period may only be authorized by
the Town Council where it is found that, due to the following, building permits
for all phases of the development cannot be secured within two years:
            1.   The sizing and phasing of the development;
            2.   The level of investment;
            3.   The need for the development;
            4.   Economic cycles; or
            5.   Market conditions.
         (b)   A vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of said property under the terms
and conditions of the site specific development plan as provided for in this
section. Failure to abide by the terms and conditions placed upon such approval
will result in the forfeiture of the vested right previously accorded.
         (c)   A vested right, once established as herein provided, shall
preclude any zoning action by the town which would change, alter, impair,
prevent, diminish or otherwise delay the development or use of the property as
set forth in the approved site specific development, except under the following
conditions:
            1.   The affected landowner provides written consent to the town of
his or her desire to terminate the vested right;
            2.   The town determines, after having advertised and held a public
hearing, that natural or human-made hazards exist on or in the immediate
vicinity of the property which pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as indicated in the site
specific development plan;
            3.   Compensation is made by the town to the landowner for all
costs, expenses and other losses incurred including, but not limited to, all
fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural, planning,
marketing, legal and any other consultant’s fees incurred after approval
together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid;
            4.   The town determines, after having advertised and held a public
hearing, that the landowner or his or her representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which made a
difference in the approval by the town of the site specific development plan;
or
            5.   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state or federal law
or regulations which precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
development plan. In such case, the town may (after having advertised and
conducted a public hearing) modify the affected provisions upon a finding that
the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the plan.
         (d)   Any public hearing called for in this division (B)(6) shall be
conducted by the Town Council and advertised as indicated in division (B)(4)
above. Recommendation by the Planning Board and final action by the Town
Council shall be undertaken provided in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(5) above,
respectively.
         (e)   Once a vested right is granted to a particular site-specific
development plan, nothing in this section shall preclude the town from
conducting subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms
and conditions of the original approval, provided such reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approval.
      (7)   Revocation or expiration of a vested right. The vested right
resulting from the approval of a site-specific development plan may be revoked
by the Town Council as provided for in division (B)(6) above. In addition, a
revocation may occur if the Town Council determines that the landowner has
failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the approval or with any
other applicable portion of this chapter. The vested right shall otherwise
expire at the end of the approval period established by the Town Council.
      (8)   Revocation of building permit. A building permit issued by the
County Building Inspector pursuant to G.S. § 160A-417 may not be revoked
because of the running of time on a piece of property for which a site-specific
development plan has been approved and the vested right period has not
otherwise expired.
      (9)   Amendments to this chapter. The establishment of a vested right on
a piece of property for a site-specific development plan shall not preclude the
town from establishing and enforcing on the property any additional regulations
(adopted during the time the vested right was in effect) which are general in
nature and applicable to all property subject to the regulations of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11.9)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.235 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to hear and decide
appeals from any order, decision, determination or interpretation made by the
Zoning Administrator pursuant to or regarding these regulations.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to hear and decide
petitions for all variances from the requirements of these regulations, except
major variance applications regarding one or more lots located within a Water
Supply Watershed Overlay District.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to make
recommendations on major variances for lots located within a Water Supply
Watershed Overlay District.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to deny a major
variance application concerning property located within a Water Supply
Watershed Overlay District.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to make an
interpretation of any portion of this chapter.
   (F)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to change the use of
or expand certain non- conformities.
   (G)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to grant a special
exception for the location of a satellite dish antennas, as per §
155.105 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.1)
§ 155.236 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members. All five
members shall be citizens and residents of the town and shall be appointed by
the Town Council for three-year terms. The Town Council shall also appoint two
alternate members to serve on the Board in the absence of any regular member.
Each alternate member, while attending any meeting of the Board and serving in
the absence of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all the powers
and duties of a regular member. Members shall serve without pay, but may be
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing the Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   The terms of office of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be
for overlapping terms of three years. Initial appointment of the members shall
in each case be as follows: one member shall be appointed for a one-year term;
two for two-year terms; and two for three-year terms. Thereafter, members shall
be appointed for three years each. Said alternate members shall serve for a
term of one year each. Nothing herein contained shall be so interpreted as to
forbid any member from being appointed to succeed himself or herself.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for any reason other than expiration of term shall
be filled as soon as is reasonably possible after such vacancy occurs by the
proper Board making the appointment, and such appointment shall only be for the
period of the unexpired term. Members may be removed for cause by the
appointing board upon written charges and after public hearing.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.2)
§ 155.237 MEETINGS, HEARINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   All meetings and hearings shall be open to the public and shall
be conducted in accordance with the procedure set forth in these regulations
and rules of procedure adopted by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Such rules of procedures may be amended by the Board of Adjustment
membership.
   (B)   Any rules of procedure adopted by the Board of Adjustment shall be
kept on file at the offices of the Zoning Administrator and shall be made
available to the public at any meeting or hearing of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.3)
§ 155.238 STAFF.
   The Zoning Administrator shall serve as staff to the Board of Adjustment and
shall provide technical assistance to the Board of Adjustment as requested.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.4)
§ 155.239 INITIATION OF APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   An appeal may be initiated by any aggrieved party or by any officer,
department or board of the town.
   (B)   A petition for a variance may be initiated only by the owner of the
affected property, an agent authorized in writing to act on the owner’s behalf
or a person having a written contractual interest in the affected property.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.5)
§ 155.240 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW, APPEALS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from and review
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or citation made by the Zoning
Administrator and apply such interpretation to particular fact situations. In
addition, the Zoning Administrator may ask the Board of Adjustment to interpret
any portion of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may, after having held a public hearing on the
matter, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed or make an interpretation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator in making any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or
determination with reference to an appeal or petition.
   (D)   An appeal may be made by any person who has received a ruling from the
Zoning Administrator. An appeal to the Board of Adjustment shall be made within
30 days of the decision, order, determination or interpretation made by the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may make an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment at any time.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.6)
§ 155.241 VARIANCES.
   (A)   When practical difficulties, special conditions or unnecessary
hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the
Board of Adjustment shall have the power to vary or modify any of the
regulations or provisions of this chapter relating to the construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land for all variance
requests, except major variance requests regarding parcels of land located
within a Water Supply Watershed District. For major variance applications
related to regulations or provisions in this chapter for lots located within
the Water Supply Watershed District, the Board of Adjustment shall have the
power to make recommendations on such applications.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment, in considering an application for a variance,
shall give due consideration to the following:
      (1)   The citing of other non-conforming or conforming uses of land or
structures in the same or other districts, shall not be considered grounds for
the granting of a variance; and
      (2)   The request for a variance for a particular use expressly, or by
inference, prohibited in the district involved, shall not be approved. Certain
temporary uses, however, are allowed per §
155.062 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may only approve a variance or make a
recommendation on a major variance involving land located in a Water Supply
Watershed District after having first held a public hearing on the matter and
having made the following determinations:
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter;
      (2)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
this chapter and preserves its spirit;
      (3)   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare have
been assured and substantial justice has been done; and
      (4)   The reasons set forth in the application justify the granting of a
variance and that the variance is a minimum one that will make possible the
reasonable use of land or structures.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment, in approving all variances, (except major
variances involving land located in the Water Supply Watershed District which
are subject to the Environmental Management Commission approval), may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which a variance is approved, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
and shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment, in making recommendations regarding major
variance applications, may recommend fair and reasonable conditions and
safeguards in conformity with this chapter, conditions may also be attached to
any major variance by the Environmental Management Commission as part of their
approval process. Violations of any conditions or safeguards prescribed by the
Environmental Management Commission, and made a part of the terms under which
the major variance was approved, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
and shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Adjustment or the
Environmental Management Commission and included in its decision to approve a
variance, any order of the Board of Adjustment or the Environmental Management
Commission in approving a variance shall expire, if a building permit or
certificate of occupancy (for a use for which a building permit is not
required) has not been obtained within one year from the date of its decision.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.7)
§ 155.242 NON-CONFORMITIES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from any land
owner to: make a change in use of a non-conforming use to a less-intense non-
conforming use; make a change in location of a non-conforming use of land to
another location on the same property; allow the replacement of a non-
conforming use; or allow a non-conforming manufactured home to remain on the
same lot as a principal structure, if it is occupied by a blood relative of the
owner-occupant of the principal structure.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment may only grant a change in a non-conforming
use or replacement of a non-conforming structure which has been destroyed after
having first held a public hearing and having determined that:
      (1)   (a)   Said change will be more suitable and appropriate for the lot
(s) on which it is located than the existing situation; and
         (b)   The proposed change will have a less harmful effect than the
existing situation on the properties surrounding the lot(s) in question.
      (2)   The decision to grant the change will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise be detrimental to the public welfare.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment, in granting said changes, may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter in order
to conform with divisions (A) and (B) above. Violation of such conditions and
safeguards, when made a part of the terms upon which the change was granted,
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as
prescribed in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.8)
§ 155.243 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS AND SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may grant an extension of a temporary use
permit for a manufactured house as per §
155.064 of this chapter for a period no longer than nine months if the Zoning
Administrator determines that construction is proceeding in a diligent manner;
the granting of such permit of the manufactured home on the site does not have
a negative effect on abutting properties.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment is given the authority as per §
155.063 of this chapter to allow a special exception to allow a satellite dish
antennas in the side or front yard in a residential (R-A, R-20, R-10) district.
Prior to allowing such special exception, a public hearing must first be held
and advertised. In allowing this special exception, the Board of Adjustment may
authorize fair and reasonable conditions. Any such conditions imposed upon such
approval shall be made part of the permit issued. Violation of such conditions
shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a special exception to allow a non-
conforming sign having historic, significant social value or other justifiable
reason to be continued as per §
155.042(K) of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.9)
§ 155.244 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   The following regulations apply to all applications submitted to the Board
of Adjustment.
   (A)   Before a petition for an administrative appeal, interpretation of this
chapter, variance, change or replacement of a non-conformity, or allowance of a
temporary use or special exception shall be heard and a public hearing
conducted by the Board of Adjustment, an application shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator along with a fee in accordance with fee schedule
established by the Town Council. Said fee shall be waived for any petition
initiated by the Zoning Administrator or other officials of the town who
initiate a request on behalf of the town. For variance requests, the
application shall be accompanied by a map clearly identifying the subject
property, all contiguous pieces of properties (including all properties
traversed and/or separated by a road, stream, right-of-way or any similar
natural or human-made configuration). In addition, a list of names and
addresses of the owners of said properties, from the most recent official tax
records, shall be provided by the applicant.
   (B)   The filing of any application stays all proceedings unless the Zoning
Administrator certifies that a stay, in his or her opinion, will cause imminent
peril to life or property or that, because the violation charged is transitory
in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of this chapter.
In that event, proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment, Town Council or by a court of
record.
   (C)   Within five working days after having received an application for an
appeal, interpretation, variance, change or expansion of a non-conformity, or
allowance of a temporary use, the Zoning Administrator shall determine whether
the application is complete. If he or she determines that the application is
not complete, he or she shall serve a written notice on the appellant or
petitioner specifying the application’s deficiencies. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall take no further action on the application until the deficiencies
are remedied. If the Zoning Administrator fails to so notify the appellant or
petitioner, the application shall be deemed complete.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.10)
§ 155.245 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   The town shall give notice of all public hearings. Said notice shall
become a part of the record of the proceedings of the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Notice shall be given in the following manner.
      (1)   Interpretations and appeals of the Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   Notice shall be sent by the town by first class mail to the
applicant at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
         (b)   Notice shall also be posted by the Zoning Administrator in a
conspicuous location in the Town Hall at least ten days prior to the public
hearing. Both notices shall indicate the nature of the public hearing and the
date, time and place at which it is to occur.
      (2)   Variances, changes and expansions of non-conformities, temporary
use extensions, special exceptions.
         (a)   Notices shall be sent by the town by first-class mail to the
applicant, and to owners of all contiguous properties at least ten days prior
to the public hearing. In addition, if a minor or major variance concerning
property located within a Water Supply Watershed District is the purpose of the
public hearing, then the town shall also send notice of the hearing, plus a
description of the variance request by first-class mail to the Clerk of all
municipal and county governments having jurisdiction within the same watershed
and to any entity using the water supply from that watershed for consumption
purposes at least ten days prior to the public hearing. The notice shall
indicate the nature of the public hearing and the date, time and place at which
it is to occur.
         (b)   Notice shall also be posted by the Zoning Administrator in a
conspicuous location in the Town Hall at least ten days prior to the public
hearing. Said notice shall indicate the nature of the public hearing and the
date, time and place at which it is to occur.
         (c)   At least one sign shall also be conspicuously placed by the town
on the subject property(ies) indicating the nature of the public hearing and
the date, time and place at which it is to occur. Said sign(s) shall be placed
on the property(ies) in question at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.11)
§ 155.246 DECISION OR RECOMMENDATION.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on an application
no later than 45 days after a complete application has been filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall be received by the Board of
Adjustment at least 15 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of
the Board to be considered at that meeting. The Board of Adjustment shall
decide on the matter which was presented at the public hearing within 31 days
of the close of the public hearing.
   (B)   The concurrent vote of four-fifths of the voting members of the Board
of Adjustment shall be necessary to make an interpretation of this chapter,
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning
Administrator, approve a variance, allow for a change or expansion of a non-
conformity, approve a temporary use extension, grant a special exception, or to
decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter, or to recommend approval on a major variance
applications involving property located in a Water Supply Watershed District.
In all matters coming before the Board of Adjustment, the applicant shall have
the burden of providing clear, competent and material evidence in support of
the application.
   (C)   (1)   All decisions on variances, except major variances involving
property located within a Water Supply Watershed District, by the Board of
Adjustment shall be in writing and filed with the Zoning Administrator. A
written copy of decisions on variances, except those involving major variances
related to property located within a Water Supply Watershed Overlay District
shall be sent by first class mail to the applicant within five working days of
the date of decision of the Board of Adjustment. If the Board of Adjustment
makes a favorable recommendation on a major variance involving property located
within a Water Supply Watershed District, with or without additional conditions
or safeguards, the Zoning Administrator shall forward the application and the
preliminary record as requested herein to the Environmental Management
Commission for its review and decision.
      (2)   If the Board of Adjustment recommends that an application for a
major variance involving property located within a Water Supply Watershed
District should be denied, then the application shall not be forwarded to the
Environmental Management Commission, and shall be considered denied by the
Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Administrator shall send a written notice of
the denial by first class mail to the applicant within five working days of the
Board’s decision.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.12)
§ 155.247 APPEALS.
   (A)   An application for a rehearing shall be made in the same manner as
provided for an original hearing within a period of 15 days after the date of
the Board of Adjustment’s decision. In addition, specific information to enable
the Board of Adjustment to determine whether or not there has been a
substantial change in facts, evidence or conditions in the case, shall be
presented in writing or graphically. A rehearing shall be denied by the Board
of Adjustment, if, in its judgment, such change in facts, evidence or
conditions has not been proven. A public hearing shall not be required to be
held by the Board of Adjustment to consider holding such a rehearing. Approval
of said consideration shall, however, require an affirmative vote of at least
four voting members. In the event that the Board of Adjustment finds that a
rehearing is warranted, it shall thereupon proceed as in the original hearing;
except that, the application fee shall be waived.
   (B)   Upon the denial of an original application, or upon the denial of an
application from which a rehearing has been conducted, a similar application
may not be filed for a period of one year after the date of denial of the
original application.
   (C)   Every decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to review
by the Superior Court Division of the General Courts of Justice of the state by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any petition for review by the
Superior Court shall be duly verified and filed with the Clerk of Superior
Court within 30 days after the decision of the Board is filed in the office of
the Zoning Administrator, or after a written copy thereof is delivered to every
aggrieved party who has filed a written request for such copy with the Zoning
Administrator or the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment at the time of the
Board’s hearing of the case, whichever is later.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12.13)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                Code Section
1-593                     10.05
7A-227                    153.10
7A-228                    153.10
14-4                      10.99;
                          91.04
14-202.10                 155.007;
                          155.076
14-202.10(2)              155.007
18B                       111.07
18B-101                   112.06
18B-1000(6)               155.007
18B-1001                  110.01
19A-1(2)                  90.15
20-219.11 et al.          92.09
40-A                      154.088
42-29                     153.10
42-30                     153.10
Ch. 44A, Art. 1           92.11
47-30                     154.037
47-30(g)                  154.037
47-30.2                   154.021;
                          154.022
Ch. 90, Art. 5            132.01;
                          132.02
90-95                     90.20
Ch. 130A, Art. 9          155.007
130A-313                  154.009
130A-334                  154.009
136-19.4                  154.009
136-66.10                 154.001
136-66.11                 154.001
136-131.1                 155.042
136-141 et seq.           92.14
136-143                   92.14
143-145(7)                153.03
143-213                   154.009
143B-135.146              154.009
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         150.07;
                          153.10
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 153.01
160A-77(a)                10.14
160A-174                  153.01
160A-175                  10.99
160A-178                  113.01
160A-181                  112.02
160A-193                  151.04
160A-272                  10.05
160A-296                  Ch. 72, Schd. I
160A-300                  Ch. 72, Schd. I
160A-303                  92.02 
160A-303.2                92.02 
160A-360                  154.002
160A-361                  30.01
160A-371 to 160A-376      154.001
160A-374                  154.085
160A-376                  154.005;
                          154.009
160A-381 to 160A-392      155.002
                          154.009;
160A-385.1                155.007;
                          155.221
160A-407                  154.009
160A-417                  155.221
160A-441                  150.01;
                          153.01
160A-443                  150.04
160A-443(5)               150.06
160A-444                  153.01
160A-445                  153.06
160A-446                  150.07
160A-446(f)               150.04
160A-446(g)               150.04
162A-2                    154.009
164-7                     10.14
168-21(2)                 155.007
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     154.001—
                     154.009;
                     154.020—
                     154.022;
                     154.035—
-        - -         154.037;
                     154.050—
                     154.054;
                     154.065—
                     154.074;
                     154.085—
                     154.089
                     155.001—
                     155.007;
                     155.020—
                     155.024;
                     155.035—
                     155.043;
                     155.055—
                     155.081;
                     155.095—
                     155.107;
-        - -         155.120—
                     155.131;
                     155.145—
                     155.156;
                     155.170—
                     155.181;
                     155.195—
                     155.204;
                     155.215—
                     155.221;
                     155.235—
                     155.247
91-5     10-8-1991   150.01—
                     150.08
92-6     6-9-1992    112.01—
                     112.09
92-12    10-13-1992  Ch. 72, Schd. I
92-14    11-10-1992  Ch. 72, Schd. I
93-5     2-9-1993    30.01—
                     30.05
93-9     10-12-1993  94.01—
                     94.04
94-2     2-8-1994    93.01;
                     93.02
94-6     7-12-1994   Ch. 72, Schd. I
96-5     11-12-1996  90.01
98-2     6-9-1998    133.01;
                     133.02
99-4     5-11-1999   Ch. 72, Schd. I
-        12-14-1999  155.007
99-7     12-14-1999  Ch. 72, Schd. I
00-1     1-11-2000   Ch. 72, Schd. I
00-2     2-8-2000    132.01;
                     132.02
01-1     2-13-2001   131.01—
                     131.03
02-4     5-14-2002   Ch. 72, Schd. I
02-5     5-14-2002   Ch. 72, Schd. I
04-1     4-13-2004   Ch. 72, Schd. I
04-5     10-12-2004  Ch. 72, Schd. I
04-6     11-9-2004   Ch. 72, Schd. I
04-7     11-9-2004   Ch. 72, Schd. I
04-8     12-14-2004  Ch. 72, Schd. I
05-2     2-8-2005    Ch. 72, Schd. I
05-3     2-8-2005    130.01—
                     130.08
05-4     4-12-2005   92.01—
                     92.16
                     153.01—
05-6     4-12-2005   153.14;
                     153.25—
                     153.33
05-9     10-11-2005  Ch. 72, Schd. I
05-10    10-11-2005  Ch. 72, Schd. I
07-1     - -2007     71.15—
                     71.18
09-5     11-10-2009  70.01
12-1     1-10-2012   91.01—
                     91.04
12-2     2-14-2012   151.01—
                     151.04
-        7-11-2017   111.01—
                     111.08
17-3     8-8-2017    90.15—
                     90.26
17-4     9-12-2017   110.01
18-1     1-9-2018    152.01—
                     152.05
12-3     3-13-2018   71.01—
                     71.03
                    
 
 
